ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 24, corresponding to the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno, on the need to reform the financing of small municipalities in order to correct the endemic aggravation in the model of taxation and financing of local estates in emptied Spain. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u3	Thank you, President. Mr. Sanchez, we already know that you're obsessed with history. I'll give you three decisions of yours that will make you remember. It will pass into history because it is the president of the government who reduced the penalties to sex offenders. The social majority in Spain are women, women who we deserve to be protected by the public authorities from sexual assault. However, a law that carries its signature, the so-called law of the only is yes, is generating an incessant drop of penalties for sexual aggressors, also of the Supreme Court. And there's a social alarm from all the Spaniards that you're obviating. This is his real feminism. How many more convictions do you have to lower for you to rectify? What else has to happen for you to stop Minister Montero? It will pass into history because it is the President of the Government who granted impunity by abrogating the crime of sedition to those who had attacked the State itself. He first pardoned them and then erased their crimes. Will you continue with the embezzlement to reward the corrupt? In addition, some are comrades of the Socialist Party. And it will also pass into history because it is who presides over a government that has appointed itself a judge of the Constitutional Court, appointed, by the way, two people who treasure five unconstitutional sentences in their curriculum for the time being. Your Honor, who benefits from all this? For what social majority does it govern? [[Applause.- Various Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: All right!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u4	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, indeed, the Government has proceeded to appoint the two Constitutional magistrates who are responsible for it under article 159.1 of the Constitution, and it is true that it is perfectly democratic and constitutional that you reject those appointments. Well, you reject anything this government does. It is also perfectly democratic and constitutional to defend the suitability of these two persons for such high responsibilities. What is not democratic or constitutional, ladies and gentlemen, is blocking the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, blocking the renewal of the Constitutional Court and being outside the Constitution, as you have been doing for four years. [[Applause.- Various Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Very well!]] That is neither democratic nor constitutional, ladies and gentlemen. You ask what majority this government governs for. Your Honor, I have to tell you that last week we had a clear example of who we serve and who you serve. Last week we approved general state budgets with the greatest social investment at the time when the social majority of this country that protects itself most needs it and you voted against the tax on the big energy entities, the tax on the big financial institutions and the tax on the big fortunes of this country. It is clear that we govern for the social majority of this country and that you govern for an absolute minority, which is the 0.2% you represent when you vote against those taxes to the great fortunes of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u6	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u7	Mr. Sánchez, not a single word for women victims of sexual violence, who see how the penalties of their aggressors are being reduced by a law that carries their signature. [[applause]] You don't have a coalition government, you have a particular coalition of interests whose main beneficiary is yourself. Attorney General of the State, his Minister of Justice. Judge of the Constitutional Court, his Minister of Justice. Judge of the Constitutional Court, a high office of his in Moncloa. President of the Council of State, his Minister for Labour. Director of the CNI, the chief of staff of his Minister of Defence. President of the Post Office, his chief of staff. President of the CIS, the Secretary of Studies and Programmes of his PSOE. [[A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] This is the social majority of Pedro Sánchez. [[Applause.- Various Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: All right!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u8	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. You ask what majority this executive governs for and I tell you again, Your Honor. We govern for the more than twenty million members and members of Social Security, for the more than two and a half million workers, who, thanks to this labor reform, today have more a fixed or indefinite contract. [[rumors]] [[applause]] We govern for the nine million pensioners, who will see their pensions revalued according to the CPI. We govern for the twenty-nine million electricity consumers and for the eight million gas consumers, who see their VAT reduced, Your Honor. We govern for the forty-seven million Spaniards who, thanks to the measures being promoted by this government, see the CPI lowered, which you have consistently voted against. [[showing a graph]] [[applause]] We govern for the two million Spaniards who benefit from free public transport, a measure to which you voted against. You only vote against one thing: the great fortunes and their taxes. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín and Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: Yes, yes!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u10	Mrs. Riolobos and Mr. Garcés, I ask you to remain silent. - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT OTHER CESIONS PLANT YOUR GOVERNMENT FOR SEPARATISTS, EXTERMISTS AND CRIMINANTS? [[File number 180/001094]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u11	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u12	Mr Sánchez, it is inescapable to remember your sentence this Monday. I literally read it to you: one of the things I'm going to go through in history. Whatever such a thing, the grave thing is to hear him speak in those terms. Don't you feel ridiculous? Are you not aware that we perceive you absolutely full of vanity and lack of modesty? Do you imagine any other leader talking about himself in those terms? It costs me. Maybe Nero or Caligula. [[Rumors]] But the truth is that you are convinced that it will pass to history, and on this occasion I have to give you the reason. You will pass to history, but not primarily for digging up dead and preventing your rest, however grave this is. [[Rumors]] You will pass into history for having yielded to all the pretensions of communists, separatists, embezzlers and sedious; therefore, of coups. You will pass to history for having destroyed everything that worked in Spain. And you will be remembered, among other things, as the president who assaulted Congress and tried to gag the opposition. You will be remembered by a climate law that has condemned... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u14	...to their own people to pay the highest energy bills in history. It will pass into history for its fiscal voraciousness also against families, against autonomous and against middle classes to then hand it over to the powerful: trade unions, employers, parties and even foreign billionaires. You will pass into history for having suspended the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards for a year, with two states of alarm declared unconstitutional. You will pass into history for having lowered the crime of embezzlement to content the corrupt and the crime of sedition to get the vote to budgets by the thugs. You will be remembered as the president who lied to his own socialist voters and - do not doubt it - you will also be remembered as the president who incorporated, in the words of his previous vice president, in the leadership of the state parties that defend condemned terrorism, that is to say, terrorists. [[Applauds]] And I'd like you to answer me, because there's one year left for you. What else are you going to do to give in to extremists, separatists and terrorists? And if you can, also tell us what is called the partners of the terrorists in this House. What's your name, Mr. Sanchez? [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Abascal, you can see the plumer. They're not dead people, they're dictators. They're dictators. [[Applauds]] In any case, I had no doubt that you were the main screenwriter of the sad role your parliamentary group played last week in this House. You in this intervention, as usual, handle your dialectics based on three axes. The first is machist insults to women in this country; the second is insidious to their political opponents and the third is all the statements you make to poison coexistence in this country. It is true that there will be some VOX voters who I understand who feel quite comforted listening to you say so many insults and also so many bulls, but I imagine, Your Honor, that there will be other VOX voters who will ask you for higher job performance. [[Protests]] Because you don't do anything else. Last week the general budgets of the State were approved and you have not tabled a single amendment to those budgets. [[Mr Espinosa of the Mounts of Simon: Yes, one, to the whole!-Protests]] Is that early morning Spain, ladies and gentlemen? Is that early morning Spain? [[Applauds]] You make only one policy based on bubbles. It would take a lot more time to respond to all the noises you raise in your speeches, but I will focus on the last one you have uttered. He said a little less that we are leaving Navarra bewildered by the presence of the Civil Guard. I just want to remind you, Your Honor, that since I am President of the Government there have been 1581 civilian guards in the Foral Community of Navarre, that is, 94 more than four years ago, and when I was ruling the People's Party what he did was to reduce by 390 the civilian guards in the Foral Community of Navarre. [[Protests]] What we have done, Your Honor, in this transfer of traffic skills is to comply with the Foral Statute of Navarra and, therefore, with the Spanish Constitution. By the way, an agreement was reached in 2000 between President José María Aznar and the then president of the Foral Community of Navarra, Miguel Sanz. [[Applauds]] Where were you, Mr. Abascal? Where were you? In the year 2000, Mr Abascal, you were in the national leadership of the People's Party and in the leadership of the People's Party of Euskadi and you didn't say anything, you shut up. So less wolves, Caperucita. [[Applauds]] You, Your Honor, cannot give any lessons in patriotism because your patriotism has always had a price: the salary of the People's Party or that of a little boy in the People's Party. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u17	Mrs Aizcorbe, Mrs Esteban and Mr Robles, I ask you to be quiet, please. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONATE ANA MARIA ORAMAS GONZALEZ MORO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT OF CANARYS PARTICIPATE IN THE SPANISH DELEGATION FOR THE DELIMITATION OF SEA SPACE WITH ATLANTIC MARRUECS, WITHIN THE WORKING GROUP WITH THE KINGDOM AND WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THIS MATTER? [[File number 180/001081]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u18	Question by Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Quiet, please. [[The Rumors Continue]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, to written questions from my colleague, María Fernández, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied last October that in the joint statement agreed between King Mohamed VI and you on 7 April in Rabat it was decided, inter alia, the reactivation of the working group with Morocco on the delimitation of maritime spaces on the Atlantic façade. The ministry insists that since then there has been a meeting on 29 June and another on 11 October and that the Spanish delegation of its Government ensures the representation of the Government of the Canary Islands and of the interests of the Canary Islands. However, Minister Álvarez himself told me personally that the person appointed by the Government of the Canary Islands was already on the Spanish delegation. And later we learned that, among the working groups created, the canary representative has been excluded from the delimitation of maritime spaces. As you know, Mr President, we all agreed on the canary statute of November 2018. It is the only status of this country that includes the sea within the Canary Islands, as is the case with the archipelago, and it expressly provides that the State shall promote the participation of the autonomous community in the actions of State competence in these waters. The 2014 Treaty Act also provides for the participation of an autonomous community in the Spanish delegation when it affects its territory. The Delimitation Group had not met since 2005, and then there was a representative of the Canarian Government, despite the fact that the new statute and the treaty law were not approved, with the approval then of Minister Moratinos. The Government of the Canary Islands, which presides over a socialist, knows that it is making efforts in this area, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs still does not allow its participation within the Spanish delegation in the group of delimitation of maritime spaces between the Canary Islands and Morocco. Mr President, will the Government of the Canary Islands participate in the Spanish delegation for the delimitation of maritime areas with Atlantic-made Morocco, within the working group with the Alawite kingdom that deals specifically with this matter? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u20	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u21	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, Mrs Oramas, the first thing is to understand perfectly that Spain's relationship with Morocco is of particular interest in the Canary Islands because of its geographical proximity and, of course, because of the dense human, entrepreneurial and all kinds of ties that unite them. That is precisely why the Canary Islands is one of the autonomous communities, in the opinion of the Government, which benefits most from the implementation of that declaration on 7 April to which you referred earlier. And indeed, with regard to the working group on the delimitation of maritime spaces on the Atlantic façade, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned to him, both in Parliament and in meetings with the President of the Canary Islands, the Government has the firm intention of ensuring that the Canary Islands is in the negotiations and we are doing so already. According to the information I know that the Minister has transferred to you, and, of course, also to President Ángel Víctor Torres, there is a representative appointed by the Government of the Canary Islands who participates in the meetings that require your presence and does so in accordance with the powers of the Canary Islands Statute. For example, the Canary Islands delegate joined the Spanish delegation in meetings held with Morocco last June and October, and I therefore assure you that in this process the Government of the Canary Islands, all the political parties, the whole of the Canary Islands society, Mrs Oramas, can be calm, confident that the Government of Spain will continue to comply with its commitments and defend the interests of the Canary Islands and of Spain as a whole. I understand, Mrs Oramas, that this is going to be your last parliamentary question, and from the ideological discrepancy that we have often held in this rostrum, of course, Your Honor, I would like to wish you the best in your political future and to acknowledge, for the record in the Journal of Sessions, the extraordinary work that you have done as a Member of these General Courts. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u23	I want to thank you. And I hope that the Canary Islands is on the committee that decides its future. Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DO YOU THINK THE FACTS AVAIL THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUR DEPARTMENT? [[File number 180/001086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u24	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. With the venom. Madam Vice-President, are you going to answer about the 'yes yes' or are you going to hide as the President of the Government has done? [[Applauds.-A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Very well!]] Because millions of Spaniards are asking you to rectify. What's your management? What are his facts? Your government brings us to the highest public debt in our history, more than 1.5 billion euros. You owe the Spanish and the next generations. And what's the result? The result is the highest unemployment rate in the European Union, the basket of cloud shopping and a more complicated future for all. And then there's your political management, ladies and gentlemen, your loss of principle. Now, the unconstitutional manoeuvre in the appointments of the Constitutional Court, and they have also made lies their favorite instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, if you lie so much, no one believes you. Look at your Home Secretary, look at your government. Not only do they not comply with their commitments, but they also do the opposite of what they promised. They came not to rule by decree, and bear the record. They came to reinforce the sedition penalty, and they repealed it. They came to fight poverty, and they multiply it. They came to fight inequality, and they make laws that put sex offenders on the street, Your Honor. Inequality is fought with rights, of course, but these rights must be sustained in good laws because they do not become weaknesses. We have told you here, ladies and gentlemen, but this government is not listening. They do not want to see the reality and that is why the President of the Government cannot walk the street without fear of being told the truth in his face. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u26	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u27	Thank you very much, President. You found, Mr. Rojas, that you're talking about anything but economics, and I understand that. I understand this because, of course, the news we have had in recent weeks is positive and confirms the good progress of the Spanish economy, even in such a complex international context: a drop in inflation of 4 points in four months; an upward revision by the international growth forecasting agencies for this year, up to 4,6 or 4,7 % - of course, this gives us a stronger, higher basis, to start the year 2023-; positive figures in the labour market, which maintains its dynamism even in a month as complicated as November; figures of investment, consumption, driven by the recovery plan that continues to maintain the dynamism of the Spanish economy; general state budgets approved and, moreover, endorsed by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund; a government that fulfils its commitments to reduce the public deficit ratio and public debt leading to a situation in the financial markets of great confidence, a risk premium below 100 basis points, and we have announced that we are going to reduce the issue of public debt this year by EUR 5 billion. Mr Rojas, you do not want to see the facts because for this you would have to remove the ears with which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party wake up every day. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u28	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u29	Madam Vice-President, I ask for more respect from the main opposition group, we are in Congress. [[rumors]] Above all, I am very surprised that you do not know your skills at this stage. Its powers are to coordinate the Government, and I am also asking for that coordination. And, Your Honor, you're always wrong again. You come here to ask what proposals the opposition has. Our proposal is to rule seriously and to rule thinking of the Spanish. [[Rumors]] That's where you had it, Your Honor, in the 'yes yes' debate. We told him. My partner, Marta González, told him what could happen. The president does not want to rectify, you do not want to know about the subject, but in Spain very serious things are happening because of your incompetence, Your Honor. He had it in him 'yes it is'. We told him what was going to happen, but they didn't want to listen. They don't know how to listen, they don't want to rectify. You see only the cravings for power, the cravings for remaining in power. But at what cost, Your Honor? First, by excusing criminals who went against the state to deal with them. That's the reality. You are Bildu, you are Esquerra, Your Honor. That is what you are because it is what you represent, what you are doing in this country and what you are doing with Spain. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u30	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u31	Thank you very much, President. You do not stop uttering barbarities, insults and absolutely unjustified attacks because you know very well that the economic policy that the People's Party defends is that of the kamikaze driver, as has been demonstrated by the massive tax cuts that have been carried forward to a government in the UK. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] I understand you want to talk about anything. I am not going to get into the trap of your absolutely unjustified and unacceptable attacks, but I am going to tell you that this is a government that I believe has demonstrated with great depth its feminist commitment, its defence of women's rights, its defence of minority rights and its commitment to improving Spanish society. [[Rumors.-Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes, yes, yes!]] [[Applauds]] I wish you weren't cornered on that extreme right on all social issues, because it would be desirable to have an opposition with which we could agree, with which we could work to build a better country. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY GIVEN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR VICESIDENT FIRST AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC MATTERS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT IS YOUR PROVISION FOR THE GROWTH OF THE SPANISH ECONOMY FOR THE FIRST QUARTER OF THE NEXT YEAR? [[File number 180/001095]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u32	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, the Ph.D. in Economics who has on his right, former advisor to Caja Madrid, that institution of politicians who had to rescue the Spaniards, has referred a while ago to the reduction of inflation - this has been said -, but the truth is that prices continue to rise, Minister, not decreasing, although they do so at lower growth rates than in the previous period. Don't fool the Spaniards because people when they go shopping notice. Prices are still rising. In the last control session I asked you a rather simple question. I asked him what the growth forecasts were for the last quarter of the year. You had two and a half minutes to answer me and you weren't able to give me the data. Let us try this time with an equally simple question: What is your forecast of growth for the Spanish economy in the first quarter of next year? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u34	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u35	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, as you know very well, we are in a context of very high uncertainty. All forecasts point to a slowdown in economic growth and there has been a significant increase in inflation in all European countries. In this complex context, the Spanish economy continues to show a remarkable strength. In this fourth quarter we see how consumption and investment continue with great dynamism, driven by the investments of the recovery plan, financed with the European funds Next Generation, in the same way that the labour market continues to create employment and maintains a positive tone, even in a month as complicated as November. The truth is that inflation has fallen 4 points in four months and we therefore look at the beginning of the 2023 financial year from a position of relative strength in this difficult international context. And what we are going to continue to do in the Government is to act with caution and responsibility, with an economic policy that allows us to continue to grow, create jobs and improve the social situation of our country, governing for the majority. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u36	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u37	I don't know if it's the audio or if it doesn't sound good, but it's just that I haven't heard the data. For the second consecutive week I ask you for a data - what is the growth data of the Spanish economy - and for the second consecutive week you do not give it to me. And you know why you don't give it to me? Because you never get it right, Minister, because all your predictions are broken. We will never know if you deceive yourselves or want to deceive others. What we do know is that we are already at least in a significant slowdown in activity - by using the words of the Governor of the Banco España - that is, we are stagnant, Minister, because in the previous quarter the Spanish economy grew by 0.2% and, at best, the Banco de España expects that for this quarter we will grow by 0.2%. I mean, in the previous quarter nothing and now nothing nothing. And the saddest part, neither in all 2022 nor in all 2023 we will recover the economic level of 2019; in fact, the Banco España has ruled out that GDP recovers until 2024. That is to say, for the first time in many years, at least since the reception of the PSOE in Zapatero - look at what a horror of reference - the Spaniards will get out of this legislature poorer than how we arrived. This is why you will go into history, Minister - you, Pedro Sánchez and your entire government - because of the economic collapse of Spain. But, in addition to economics, you are sinking Spain in morals, in politics, in what has to do with our confidence, with our coexistence, with the security and with the hope of the future of the Spaniards. Minister, although in the press you have gone completely unnoticed, last Sunday tens of thousands of Spaniards went out to the streets to cry out against a government that is sinking into all aspects of their lives, and they were not even all of VOX, although only VOX is left to mobilize the street, as other parties and trade unions refuse to do so. But lose all hope, we will be here to face this radical left which governs us and which you represent, in institutions, in the streets and in the ballot box. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u39	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, the Spanish economy grew by 5.5% last year, it remained for three quarters with growth above 6.5% and this year the government's forecast of growth, very prudent - we have been short - is 4.4%. A slowdown in economic growth is not a stagnation, it is a slowdown in economic growth. The forecast for all national and international economic bodies, both public and private, is that the economy will continue to grow next year; moreover, it will grow again above the countries in our environment, above the OECD average, above the G20 average and above the European Union average. And it is not surprising, because until now, until November, the Spanish economy is showing a remarkable strength, with dynamic growth, with consumption, investment and an external sector that are pulling out of economic activity, with a labour market whose behaviour cannot be qualified but extraordinary, with more than 20.5 million people affiliated to Social Security, more than 23.5 million people active in the labour market and a government that has just approved the third general budgets of the State, which provides political stability, economic stability and gives confidence to international markets and investors in a particularly complex context, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros makes negative gestures]] [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA TELECHA I LOZANO, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEVELOPED DON GABRIEL RUFIÁN ROMERO, OF THE REPUBLICAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THINK OF DOING MORE TO HELP THE PEOPLE WITH HIS HYPOTHETICS? [[File number 180/001085]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u40	Question by Mrs Carolina Telechea i Lozano, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u41	Thank you, President. Does the Spanish government plan to do anything else to help people with mortgages?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u42	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u43	Thank you, President. The Government of Spain has continued to act to protect all Spanish citizens and especially those affected by the rapid rise in mortgage interests, and we will continue to do so. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u44	Mrs. Telechea.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u45	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, the measures announced by your Government contain good intentions, but they are totally ineffective. Currently, 3.7 million families have variable loans and have already suffered the rise of the euribor, having to bear an increase of their letters of about 200 euros per month on average, which many can no longer pay. This fact is aggravated by the increase in the cost of living now, in winter. Their proposals are late and bad; there are already many families with water around their necks and their solution is based on a code that is voluntary for banks. Do you really think that banks will voluntarily adhere to the code of good practice? They are bold in proclaiming that one million families will benefit when, since the adoption of the last code of good practice, ten years ago, only 142,000 families have benefited. But now, as by the art of magic, it will reach the million directly; let me be skeptical. It is a question of forcing banks to bear their own costs, not of advertising them from the public purses. But even apart from all this, the income limits that you have imposed are not adequate to the reality that we live in. I don't know what world they live in, because they say they come to the middle class, but do you think that a family with an income of 29,000 euros a year, with two children, is considered a middle class? How do you think he can pay the mortgage? You can't do that, Minister. It will pass as with the moratoriums during the pandemic. There were so many requirements and so restrictive that many were left out, and this is going to happen the same way. Madam Minister, it is time to be brave and implement measures such as those we propose to you: to eliminate rent ceilings, to ensure that the code of good practice is binding on banks and to freeze rent prices, mortgages and the halting of evictions and supply cuts, at least until an effective housing law is passed. Madam Minister, they reached an agreement in extremis with the banking associations, but not with those of consumers, who really protect the most disadvantaged part. Please do not do the same as the previous governments: save the banks first rather than the families. Study our proposals; it's now when people need it the most. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u46	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u47	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this is a government that has not now started to act to protect this middle class and in particular mortgage clients, and in 2019 the new Mortgage Law was passed that significantly strengthened the protection of the most vulnerable families and all mortgage credit clients, precisely to facilitate the change of variable-to-fix mortgages, so that they would have greater protection also in situations that could lead to eviction. At the moment we have worked very hard to reach a package of measures that not only protect the most vulnerable, but also the middle classes and provide a range of instruments to be able to extend the deadlines, reduce interest rates and ultimately have greater protection against this scenario of rapid rise in interest rates and prices. Indeed, the best way to protect families and enable them to face the challenges we can face is to continue to grow, create jobs and improve wages, as the Government has been doing. Frankly, I hope to count on the support of your parliamentary group for the validation of this royal decree law, because it is important and good for the families of this country. Furthermore, I think it is a good thing that the banking institutions have announced that they are going to join this code of good practice and that they have understood that at the moment they have to tie their shoulders and avoid a difficult situation for the families concerned. By the way, this is also the government that has proposed the creation of an extraordinary tax for the benefits of the banking sector, so I do not understand those allegations that you make in the sense of not seeing clearly that we want to make a fair distribution of the impact of the war. Finally, I believe that this is also the government that has a more ambitious housing policy, those 100,000 social housing units, of which 60% are already in operation and a significant part of which will be provided by the Sareb, in a clear social policy supporting housing, which is undoubtedly one of the most important problems in our society and which affects young people in particular. We are committed and ruling for the whole of Spanish society. We have done so and we will continue to do so, and I hope that we can continue to count on your support for it. It'll be good for all of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FRENCH BALDE EDMUND, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT MEASURES IS YOUR GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO EQUALLY DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN THE SPAINS OF THE EXERCISE DERIVED FROM THIS CRISIS? [[File number 180/001091]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u48	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u49	Mrs Calviño, how does the Government intend to distribute equally among the Spanish the sacrifices resulting from this crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u50	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Bal, among other instruments, with those taxes that you have voted against. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u52	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u53	Mrs. Calviño, one more Wednesday, you've already said it before, all phenomenal. In Spain we all go phenomenal. It reminds me of the green shoots of Zapatero or the 'Spain goes well' of Aznar. Everything is absolutely wonderful. But fear, fear, is not for what it says, but for what it quiets. They no longer even talk about the income pact or the distribution of sacrifices, and what they do is confront the Spanish population. First, they confront civil servants with private sector workers. Over the past 10 years, the increase in the salary of civil servants compared to private sector workers has doubled, as one civil servant says; a consolidation of around 1000 euros. In the general budgets of the State you raise the salary of the officials by 8%, but do not deflate the fee of the IRPF that could be a relief for all. It will be that the private sector workers are what you call the rich. Well, look, among the humblest classes, among the most vulnerable, there are six times as many private sector workers as there are civil servants. Why don't you really look at the income pact of the real Social Democrats, who are the Portuguese, who are balancing the rise in private wages with that of civil servants? But it is that they also confront young people with older people on the grounds of pensions and accuse us of bridging the intergenerational gap. And now you answer me that you have a lot of checks, a lot of help and a lot of bonuses. What young people want is respect, what they want is to fulfill their dream of buying a house. Look, between 2008 and 2020 the wages of those under the age of 34 only grew by 2.16%; pensions, 40%, eighteen times more - this should be progressive for you - and you want to increase linearly by 8.46%, which costs us all EUR 15 billion. Pensions of 40,000 euros will increase them 3000 euros. With these people live children of 30 years - they can no longer be called children - who charge 1000 euros and who will never be able to buy a house or have children. And without children, how are we going to support the pensions? In addition, they also climb in the Basque Country, but do not put it in the quota; that is, we find that they also face territories. This must be what you understand as class struggle. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u55	Thank you, President. Mr Bal, over the course of these four and a half years as a minister I have never denied the difficulties or the complexity of the situations that we have had to face collectively as a society, but we must also not deny the assets and positive elements that Spain has to face in order to face the future, which are many. Since the beginning of the war, we have taken measures, which are being effective, with a threefold objective: to contain inflation, to maintain economic growth and job creation and to have a fair share of the impact of the war. We have mobilised EUR 35 billion of public resources, including for indirect tax cuts and tax cuts, especially for lower income levels and small and medium-sized enterprises. That is to say, I do not understand why you do not see clearly that the general state budgets for next year and the special levies for the extraordinary benefits of the energy sector and the banking sector are precisely instruments of redistribution to ensure that we have an equitable sharing of the impact of the war. What we see is that all the data confirm that this policy is the right one not only because of this drop in inflation by 4 points in four months, but also because of the pace of economic growth, because of the dynamism of consumption, investment, the labour market, and also because of the data of inequality or income distribution, which show an improvement, even in a context as difficult as we have lived from the pandemic and now from the war. Whether it is per capita income, wage distribution, inequality indicators, the Lorenz curve, the Gini index, the fact that there are 200,000 fewer households with all their unemployed people, that there are one million more households with all the employed people, all of which indicates that the economic policy we are pursuing is the right one to unite society as a whole. And I'll just make one final comment, Mr. Bal. I was listening to him and saying, "Man, today you don't finally take it with the pensioners, it seems you're taking it with the officials today. I ask you to start thinking about society as a whole and not try to divide some generations against others, some kind of workers against others; because of this situation, like the pandemic, we have to get out together, working side by side. That's what this government wants. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MIRIAM NOGUERAS AND CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT TYPE OF AID HAS THE GOVERNMENT THOUGHT OFFER TO PRODUCTIVE TEJID TO FRONT THE CURRENT ENERGY COST? [[File number 180/001092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u56	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u57	Thank you, President. Apart from the recommendations contained in the Energy Security Plan, what kind of aid does your Government intend to provide to the productive fabric to cope with the energy cost? We ask you this, Minister, because, according to the latest report from the International Monetary Fund, some of the measures you have put in place that benefit the most are not precisely those that need it most. In that report, they recommend - as they have already done and are doing in other countries of the European Union - to keep the support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises focused. That is why, since Junts, we have presented an initiative, which you have rejected, for the creation of a fund to help SMEs and self-employed people to cope with energy bills. And now, Minister, you have approved some budgets - although you owe much more than half of the previous two - but there is a reality that you seem to ignore, and it is that thousands of SMEs and self-employed people are still wondering how you will pay the bills. Other countries, on the other hand, are leaving their skin to help the productive tissue, even at the risk of going into recession. What shock measures, Minister, what contingency plan, what really effective measures for SMEs and self-employed people do your Government intend to take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u58	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u59	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. He knows that the energy price crisis we are experiencing has its epicenter in the prices of natural gas and that this government, even before it understood exactly where the problem was - focusing on the blackmail of Putin - began to take action. We have passed ten decree laws since June 2021 with various objectives. First, maintaining the broad macroeconomic benchmarks in positive behaviour - the first vice-president explained - in terms of both inflation and employment or investment, and fortunately we have managed to maintain those figures. But with regard to energy prices we wanted to ensure that they could be assumed by consumers, both by domestic consumers - with particular attention to the most vulnerable - and by the entire industrial fabric. And the answer has been balanced, as recognized by foreign, national and major international analysts, working on the issues of energy price regulation - national and European - working on fiscal measures, ensuring support through budgets and facilitating equity in burden-sharing. I believe that we have seen an extremely effective list of measures, with reductions in tolls and charges, very significant tax reductions, flexibility in gas and electricity contracts for industry and SMEs, support through regulated tariffs that benefit SMEs, which has generated a very important differential in electricity and gas prices in Spain with respect to the rest of the European countries. There are some things we can comment on, if you like. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u60	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u61	Thank you, President. Thank you, minister. Compensating the big Spanish electricity companies with 1360 million euros is not helping those who need it. They put a tax on them with their left hand and give it back to them with their right hand. Some of what you tell us is not enough, Minister, when more than 700,000 SMEs have liquidity problems, in August more than 20,000 companies were closed, almost 20% of SMEs are in red numbers and you make up for every royal decree to the great Spanish electric companies, which have had 33% more profits than last year. It will be 250 000 SMEs that will close in the coming months if you do not help them. That is why we insist on the aid fund. Almost half a million jobs are in danger. Something does not work well, Minister, when 90% of the productive tissue believes that the situation, far from improving, is going to get worse. Minister, is your Government's refusal to help small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people a definitive one? Because with the fiscal expoliation that is suffering Catalonia - more than 20 billion euros - we could make this fund, but our money you have. Will they do the bottom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u62	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u63	Thank you very much. Let me remind you of some important facts, because it is true that we have come very far and must continue to do so. We were the first to impose a reduction in the extraordinary benefits of electricity, which has allowed us to contain in a very important way the increase in prices that they would have transferred in their tariffs. We have ICO funds available for greater liquidity of companies and a very important availability of state aid managed by the Ministry of Industry, as well as compensation of CO2 costs for the large industry. The electricity price differential between the Iberian market and the rest of the European markets is half a third and on average 30% since the Iberian mechanism was applied. And the difference in the price of gas in the Iberian market compared to the main European reference in the Netherlands has come to be 80 euros during the month of August, of 60 on average from the end of July to the end of August. I think the effort is very important, we're going to keep doing it, we're going to keep accompanying... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u64	I'm sorry, Madam Vice President, but your time is running out. - OF MRS CARMEN NAVARRO LACOBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WILL YOU RESOLVE SOME OF THE PROBLEMS OF YOUR COMPETITION IN HUMAN RESOURCES THAT THERE IS IN ALL THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM BEFORE THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH IS LEFT? [[File number 180/001088]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u65	Questions to the Minister of Health. Question by Mrs Carmen Navarro Lacoba, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Darias, in these five years of sanchismo the Spaniards have suffered four health ministers, six undersecretaries, three directors general of professional management, two of pharmacy and now also a minister who uses the electoral trampoline portfolio, and everything to leave the health on the verge of collapse. Spain suffers from an unprecedented deficit of primary care doctors. Today almost 5,000 specialists are missing from the National Health System, a problem that will be exacerbated in the coming years by the imminent retirement of one third of the workforce. Do you have any plans to address the lack of primary care doctors and other specialists? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u67	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we do have a plan, which is to continue working intensively to reverse each of the cuts of the People's Party from 2011 to 2017, especially in specialized health training. [[applause]] Faced with the cuts of the PP, the governments of Sánchez: more places and more injection of resources to the autonomous communities, as never before. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u69	Mrs. Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u70	Mrs Darias, it is noted that you have already begun the election campaign. [[Applauds]] She's done it long before her partner, Mrs. Oramas. The frenzy with which he drives his government activity is no longer created. You, in your Government, have preferred to be loyal to Sánchez and abandon your institutional role as a minister. Look, you haven't been able to pass any of the laws on your program. It has not passed either the Framework Statute or the Drugs Act or the Public Health Agency Act, and it has not given the special vigilance that it owes to very special laws that concern it and that its boss, Sánchez, has left in the worst hands. By the way, you know what laws I mean and your hands sit to your left. Moreover, he has not dealt with the dramatic situation of doctors. You know that there are 12,000 candidates for an MIR square and you have only offered 8500 this year. This means that you are depriving the system of the possibility of incorporating 4000 specialists into the National Health System in the coming years. Ms.Darias, why don't you rather than blame the People's Party for not listening to the members of the People's Party and recover the road map agreed upon at the May 2018 interterritorial council? In addition, it has a mandate from this House and a resolution from the debate on the state of the nation for having done so. It has done nothing, has not changed the MIR system, has not expanded primary care places to 1000, has not changed the accreditation criteria of the teaching units and has not addressed the creation of the emergency medicine specialty. You came to this ministry to carry the blame for the disastrous management of your predecessor's pandemic to the autonomous communities and now you want to fly from the ministry carrying the blame for the lack of doctors to some autonomous communities, especially to Madrid. And no, Madam candidate, in view of your election, this is a problem for all the autonomous communities, also for the Canary Islands. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u71	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Despite your intervention, Your Honor, the data is silly and the reality too. And I'm going to talk to you about rigor and data, something that the People's Party doesn't like. From 2018 until now, since President Sánchez arrived in Moncloa, specialized health training has grown by 40%. Primary care, 36% overall, minus one community, which you mentioned, where you have decreased 2% in family doctors. Year after year - since 2018- we are beating record in the calls: 11,171 in this call, 8550 for doctors, the largest call in the history of the National Health System. These are data. [[Applauds]] Now, Your Honor, training doctors takes time.. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u73	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u74	And you don't just have to manage, you have to plan, not the counter, as the People's Party has done. Some data. The disastrous management of the People's Party from 2011 to 2017 has caused us to lose 3,500 specialists who could be incorporated into the National Health System, 1,200 fewer primary care doctors who could also be incorporated. Faced with that - data -, we will recover 5000 more specialized doctors with the increase of the offers of Specialized Health Training - these are data -, in addition to putting a stop to the temporality, to relax the criteria of the ANECA, to create a norm so that we are clear how the specialties remain. By the way, we're working together. This government of progress values the importance of the public, which is what it cohesives, which is what it equals, which is what it vertebrates. And you know what I tell you, ladies and gentlemen? Do not worry about this minister, worry that the People's Party will stop crushing public health. He is going to have us in front of him; he is going to have him in front of the government of progress, he is going to have him in front of the progressive majority of this House, he is going to have him in front of the healthcare staff and he is going to have him in front of the citizens of that country. Worry about it. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs ISABEL POZUETA FERNANDEZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT STRATEGIES WILL DEVELOP THE MINISTRY TO ABOVE THE REALITY OF HIV AND THE SOCIAL STUDY THAT YOU'RE CONCERNING TODAY? [[File number 180/001093]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u75	Question by Mrs Isabel Pozueta Fernández, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u76	Thank you. Minister, after forty-one years since the first positive HIV diagnosis, in 2022, HIV continues to exist and affects very diverse people, a silenced reality that seems to exist, because even today, in this plenary session in 2022, a huge stigma persists, a stigma that produces isolation, marking, shame, silence and discrimination. And no, society is not aware of all this. It's really troubling. This is compounded by prejudices, even reparations to acknowledge and face this discrimination, because, of course, HIV is a thing of gays, who take it for not using condoms, for being sluts, for being promiscuous; a disease almost deserved. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these false ideas are still today in the minds and thoughts of so many people. How many people don't know that a person with diagnosed and adequately treated HIV is an undetectable HIV person who can't transmit it to another person? How many people think HIV only affects men who have sex with men? How many people even think that HIV no longer exists? Unfortunately, many thousands. Therefore, the best recipe for this is information, pedagogy and sex education. We must also redouble our investment in science to achieve a permanent medical solution to HIV, yes, but we must also strive for early diagnosis, which still fails so much, as well as to boost PrEP's preventive strategy, but also need an economic commitment to ensure access to it and broaden its reach. With regard to HIV and sexually transmitted infections, their existence must be shown without alarm, but with high doses of reality and pedagogy. Only then will we end stigma and discrimination. Therefore, I ask you: what strategies will the ministry develop to address the reality of HIV and the social stigma it still carries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u77	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Mrs Pozueta, for your question. The Ministry of Health is absolutely committed to the cause of the fight against HIV, the improvement of diagnosis, the improvement of treatment, of course the improvement of the quality of life and also the fight against stigma associated with the disease. Tomorrow, December 1, is World AIDS Day. I therefore thank you for this question, which is very timely to share our common purpose of ending HIV as a public health problem in 2030. We are therefore fully aligned with the objectives of UNAIDS. We have implemented, ladies and gentlemen, PrEP throughout the national territory. When I came to the ministry, PrEP was not administered throughout the territory; today it is a reality. In addition, we have extended their funding to people over the age of 16, so that they can also have access to it. We are also giving answers with new treatments. We have just incorporated into the common service portfolio a new treatment, which is an injectable and which, therefore, will improve the quality of life of these people, from a daily pill to six injections a year, which I think is also very important with the advances of science. We have also strengthened at ministerial level the creation of an administrative structure with the creation of the division of HIV, STIs, viral hepatitis and tuberculosis. [[Rumors]] We have also adopted an HIV prevention plan 2021-2030, which marks us, Mrs Pozueta, the road map to follow, a shared road map, because of course I believe that we are also fighting in a strong way against the stigma associated with the disease, which is very important, with that social pact against discrimination associated with people with HIV, which is also - it is the data of this Government - when I was Minister of Territorial Policy I had the honour of being able to pass a rule that removed the barrier that a person with HIV could access public employment. I think those are facts and realities. Spain is a leader in the fight against HIV produced by the joint work of the ministry, autonomous communities, scientific societies, medical professionals and also of the whole collective. And so are the cities. Now I'm leaving for Avilés because he's going to join the Fast-Track Cities strategy. Spain is a world leader. There are 180 localities, local entities that have joined the strategy, the Seville Declaration, and we are referring to the work we are doing. [[Rumors]] Therefore, our shared goal is to end HIV, a public health problem, in 2030, as I am convinced that the whole House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent in general terms within the Chamber, but especially at the monitoring session. Any Member who asks and any Minister, Vice-President or the President himself who answers must have the opportunity to answer and ask in silence, please. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SANTAMARIA RUIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE CRIMINAL CODE APPROPRIATE TO ANIMALS What about the people? [[File number 180/001089]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u80	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Luis Santamaría Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u81	Allow me, Minister, before you are sent to colonize any of the State institutions, to give you a brief account of what has been your passage through the Ministry of Justice. To this day, ten persons convicted of crimes against sexual freedom have been imprisoned and thirty have seen their sentences reduced. You have the sad merit of having solicitated judges, prosecutors, lawyers and all officials, whose discontent and schedule of mobilizations you should explain. The week of gender-based violence has served you - look at it - to remove competences in the field of gender-based violence from twelve courts in three autonomous communities, eight of them in my community, the Valencian Community, where, for example, victims of municipalities such as Játiva will now have to travel tens and tens of kilometres in order to protect themselves. You have decided to legislate to the letter of independence, to rewrite the Supreme's sentences and also to accept the thesis that Spain is a repressive state. And you have also defined a criminal type for animal abuse with nine aggravating factors, in which you propose to punish more exemplary - eye, punish more exemplary - the injuries that are caused to animals than those that are caused to people. Could you explain to us why, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u82	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u83	Thank God, Mr. Santamaría, you finally asked the question. [[Rumors]] Look, it is in everyone's interest that the Criminal Code should provide protection for the legal assets that are worthy of that, of criminal protection, and that it should provide the people with the protection that they deserve and also provide the animals with the proper protection that they deserve. The bill to reform the Criminal Code on animal abuse is already here in this House, as you well know, and society is constantly demanding that we give animals greater protection, that they were not previously, were not sufficiently protected. On this issue, Your Honor, there is increasing social awareness, there is also increasing sensitivity in respect for living beings, in respect for the ecosystem, in respect for the environment, in respect, how not, animals, and I wish there was also in respect for people, because sometimes the truth is that there is not much of an example in this House. We are at your disposal, at the disposal of all parliamentary groups, at your disposal for a serious debate on this issue, because I am sure that the will of the majority is to put an end to conduct that is truly reprehensible, reprehensible and intolerable. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u84	Mr. Santamaría.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u85	Madam Minister, you forget that it is not us, but your colleagues in government, who claim that it was you who determined the penalties of the law of yes is yes. God doesn't want it, but if someone gets released again, how will they explain it to the victims? Madam Minister, it is not we who have lit up discontent in your ministry, it is you who tolerate with your complicit silence the ruthless criticisms of judges and prosecutors, and it is you, by your arrogance, who have forced the officials to come to the Ombudsman for you to listen to them. Nor are we the ones who have decided that hundreds of victims of gender-based violence have to go to a taxi to get shelter, not us. And neither have we decided to replace the Belloch code with the Junqueras code, it was you. And know, minister, that it is not we who believe that mistreating an animal - something that is very wrong, obviously, something that is very wrong and that we share - is the same, because it is not the same, that hiding the body of a murdered person; it is not the same and cannot be punished the same. It is not we who support this indignity. I wonder how many times you will stumble upon the same stone by legislating against the criterion of the General Council of the Judiciary, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u86	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I'm going to go to the point, I'm not going to get mixed up in your mud. [[Rumors]] I believe that anyone understands the observations made by the General Council of the Judiciary, any legal person, any politician, and also the spirit behind those observations of the General Council of the Judiciary, because he has made observations on very important issues that have been amended in this House and, moreover, have been amended before the General Council of the Judiciary itself issued its report. In the spirit of the Government, it is sending to the House a project that can combine good protection for animals with alternatives to imprisonment, such as fines. Or also, give reality to answers - since you are so interested in gender-based violence - to cases as serious as the use of animals, the abuse of animals to generate more pain for victims of gender-based violence. I've seen many cases, Your Honor, I've seen many cases where the victims' dogs have been beheaded, where the victims' cats have been burned, and this really means pain, a fear, a fear for the victims of gender violence and who want to generate the aggressors, who really... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA MONTESINOS DE MIGUEL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE increase in the number of crimes against sexual freedom and compensation in Spain concern you? [[File number 180/001087]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u89	Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u90	Mr. Marlaska, you're still here, with everything we've been getting to know these days. I thought he still had a glimpse of dignity, but, anyway, what are we going to do to him! Look, as Minister of the Interior who still remains, I'm going to ask you the following. Since you are a minister, crimes against sexual freedom have increased by 30%, assaults and rapes by 33%, and most tremendously, 50% are on minors. The figures are unbearable. And now we must add the pain that you are causing the victims with the law of the only yes, which you endorsed and which Sanchez assured you were proud of. Proud of what, to benefit at least forty-two sex offenders who are seeing their convictions reduced or ten others who have been released? And that's irreversible. Are you really concerned about the increase in crimes against freedom and sexual indemnity in Spain? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u91	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. They've been trying to get me out of here for four and a half years, congratulations on their success. [[Laughter and applause]] But going to the important thing, which is the question, of course we are concerned about, but we are concerned not only about the slight - to which I will then refer - increase of the crimes against sexual freedom, we only care about one crime against sexual freedom, only one of us is concerned, so we have specialized units, and that is why these specialized units of Police and Civil Guard are increasing them in personnel and in the media, unlike what you did, losing 13,000 troops in seven years. [[Applauds]] And, obviously, also working in the Police and the Civil Guard, controlling sex offenders, and working with Prison Institutions through the Support and Responsibility Circles project, which develops in them. Real and effective control. We are concerned about this slight increase of 3.9%, and that is why we have more means to deal with and evaluate the reasons and causes. But you forget a very concrete fact: between 2015 and 2018 - who ruled then? - the crimes against sexual freedom increased from 9869 to an average of 13,782. It's data. And the Socialist Party has never used that data, because we understand that the fight against crimes against sexual freedom, where women are the main victims, must be a State policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u93	Mrs. Montesinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u94	Mr Marlaska, we are not concerned about you, we are concerned about the victims who suffer from your management, those we are concerned about, not you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] In addition, the data I have provided to you are data from your ministry, data that are indisputable, and I have obtained them from the page of your ministry. [[shows a document]] What is clear is that you again profile yourself, as you usually do, but just like the rest of the Government, because to each of the questions that my colleagues have asked you about the law of yes is yes, the silence for answer. Shame, gentlemen of the government! [[Applauds]] This law has generated a huge social alarm, a wave of indignation and indescribable pain for the victims. And what did you do as a member of the Council of Ministers who approved it, knowing the reports that warned of its harmful effects? What did you do as responsible for the state security forces, which put the aggressors at the disposal of the justice system? What did you do as a judge, Mr. Marlaska? Because 2018 is long gone, when he claimed that women and victims of sexual crimes and sexist violence had to know that all State institutions were interested in protecting them, and four years later he is complicit in every sentence reduction, and let's not say every release of an aggressor, Mr.Marlaska. How irresponsible, as a government, not to amend this colossal misconception. The damage they are causing to the victims is unforgivable, they are the victims and not the minister causing this... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. I'm sorry, no more screaming, you're more right. Interpret well the data to which I have referred, more means to fight. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel shows a document]] The law of yes is yes, the law of sexual guarantees, thinks of the victims. When it was processed here, the only thing I heard from that bench were not technical issues, yes, a single, presumption of innocence broke for the man, for the aggressor, that's all I heard here. [[rumors]] [[Greetings.-Rumores.-Mr.Rojas García: That's a lie.]] That law is intended to guarantee the compensation of women and girls, mainly, and we are waiting to read the Supreme Court's ruling. Don't create an alarm, it looks like you're enjoying it. [[Rumors]] This is a state policy, protecting women, and the law of yes is indeed protecting women. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u97	Mr Alonso, Mrs Romero, Mr Jerez, Mr Ledesma, I ask you to be quiet, please. [[Rumors]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: IS IT POSSIBLE IN THE PLACE OF THE VICTIMS WHOSE AGRESORS HAVE BEEN EXCARCHELATED OR HAVE BEEN REDUCED BY THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY? [[File number 180/001090]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u98	Questions to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u99	Thank you very much, President. Minister, the Montero law, your star project, is giving reductions in conviction and release to many sexual aggressors. Are you aware of the gravity of what's going on? Have you put yourself on the skin of the real victims? What are you going to say to a woman whose rapist is on the street thanks to her law? Think about it for a second, admit that you are not in a position to look any of these women in the eye and admit that you have not fulfilled your obligations as Minister of Equality. Mrs. Montero, are we both mothers, do you really think that this law, your law, benefits our daughters or the young women who are there in any way? Do you really think they're gonna be safer? Do you really think they're going to be freer? No, the answer is no and you know it. Accept the tremendous error and acknowledge the obvious. They were not able to advance the consequences of the law, nor did they have the humility to listen to the warnings of this parliamentary group and many other institutions, and now their pride prevents them from recognizing the error and asking for forgiveness. Yesterday we offered them a new opportunity to rectify and they didn't. What else has to happen? How many sexual aggressors have to benefit from realizing how badly they have done so? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u100	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u101	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the victims are our main concern, all the victims, and it is pure cynicism that, in the face of the difficulties of implementing the law of the only one, is yes, as has already happened also with Law 1/2004, by the way, you thus use the pain of the victims. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u102	Mrs. Hoyo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u103	Mrs Montero, stop appropriating feminism and using it to divide society. Equality is a State policy and has no gender or political colour. Stop excusing yourself by insulting judges, calling them sexists; stop questioning your work. The law has been done by you and not by them; therefore, you are the only ones responsible. Stop throwing public money at advertising campaigns by pointing people out unjustly and ruthlessly. A million euros, with which you are falling, Mrs Montero; the Spaniards take their hands to their heads. You should resign. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u104	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u105	Thank you, President. The reality is, for the first time, that the law alone does protect and empowers the State to protect, for the first time, all victims of sexist violence and sexual violence, also those of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, 8 % who denounce and also 92% who, unfortunately, still do not denounce for fear of not being believed or for normalising such violence. The law alone is yes, 100 per cent of the victims, those who report and those who do not, have the right to specialized psychologist, free legal advice, a social worker who accompanies them in access to all their rights, economic and social rights, 24-hour crisis centres to go when they need to support their rights, collect and preserve samples without the need to lodge a complaint, and the right to reparation. The law alone does indeed place consent in the centre; it also makes visible in the Penal Code violence that has so far remained invisible and normalized before the penal system, such as street harassment; it recognizes chemical submission as a way of committing sexual assault; it creates children's homes for the proper protection of children in judicial proceedings; and it incorporates procedural measures of accompanying victims, such as non-visual contact with the aggressor or declaring in special rooms. This is what the Government and the feminist majority in this House are doing to protect the victims. And what are you doing? A campaign in Galicia that says:'should not pass, but pass' or 'watch your drink', woman, when you go out at night, in the Community of Madrid, or 'who sows winds picks up storms'. This is blaming the victims, it's blaming the victims for the aggression they suffer. You promote the culture of rape 1, which questions the credibility of the victims. [[Strong protests.- Several honourable Members: No, man, no!]] You vote... [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u106	Quiet, please! Silence! [[Strong Protests]] I'm asking for silence, please. [[Several Members: Out, out, out!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I ask for silence, please. [[Strong Protests]] Don't interrupt a question. I ask you to remain silent. [[One Member: This is violence.]] I'm asking you to be quiet, don't interrupt a question. [[Strong Protests]] Quiet, please! Quiet, please! [[A Member of Parliament: Remove it!-Strong protests]] I ask you to be quiet, please, and I have given you the explanation: do not interrupt a question. Silence! [[Strong Protests]] [[Protests.-A honourable Member: Don't insult yourself!]] Minister, you finish your question. [[Protests]] Quiet, please! Silence! [[Protests]] [[A Member: It is intolerable!]] Mr. Tirado Ochoa: Silence! [[A Member of Parliament: Remove it!-A Member of the European Parliament: Resignation!]] Minister, finish your question.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u107	Thank you, President. Look, in the face of the punitive populism that you promote, we are working on comprehensive laws that guarantee the protection of all women, and we will continue to do so. [[protests]] [[Several Members: Resignation, resignation! - Let's give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u108	Mr. Callejas, you called the order for the first time. [[Rumors]] I'm asking for silence, please. Madam Minister, this Presidency considers that the expression you have used is not appropriate in parliamentary terms for a parliamentary group. I ask you, please, respect for the expressions that are used and restraint in language... Silence, please! [[Rumors]] We must want to contribute to coexistence within this House because we want to contribute to coexistence outside this House, so please, I ask you, in general terms, to avoid inappropriate language for Parliament, for the representation of the Spanish. [[Several honourable Members: Let them withdraw it!-Strong protests]] Quiet, please! [[Applause. - Mr Vice-President Gil Lázaro spoke words that were not perceived.]] Vice President, you too, please. [[Protests.-Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo asks for the floor]] Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u109	Thank you, President. Under Article 72, in relation to Article 103, and following the words of the Minister for Equality in relation to my parliamentary group, of which she has said that she 'promote the culture of rape', I would like to make it very clear that it is highly offensive that a leader and political leader, who has nothing but the responsibility to lead equality policies, is pouring out these claims in relation to a party that has fought and is continuing to fight for equality in this country. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, put on their feet, until the end of their speech]] , which has fought and will continue to fight for the end of gender-based violence. What the minister has to do is take on her responsibilities and be a little more responsible, at least out of respect for the victims of sexual assault. Thank you very much. 1 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u110	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u111	Thank you. So how do you call on a woman to watch her drink instead of focusing on the aggressor, as you have done in the institutional campaign of the Community of Madrid? [[strong protests]] [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u112	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u113	Or tell a woman that she shouldn't come by, but she does, instead of telling an assailant to stop sexually assaulting women? [[strong protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u114	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u115	Put the name on it... [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u116	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: WHY HASN'T YOU DIMITTED? [[File number 180/001096]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u117	Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[A honourable Member: I am not ashamed!]] Mr. Homer, quiet, please. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: Yesterday there was an expulsion here in the Chamber. What's going on today?]] Silence! [[Rumors]] Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u118	Thank you, President. Minister, don't worry, you're not alone. It has us all in front of it to combat its policies of discrimination and confrontation, of radical and exclusive feminism, policies that abandon the real victims, that try to infantile women and criminalize men. [[applause]] And it is not necessary that you measure our skirt and make campaigns of how to respond to an offence, we know how to do it alone, but not drunk: serene and mature. We know how to achieve our goals, because we've been doing so long before you were a minister. And it is that a minister does not protect or hide her, she must assume her responsibility and account for her policies, which are measured by their results and not by their intentions or their propaganda. Since January 2020, who holds his office, tell me, how many victims do you carry behind your back? Victims who have been unable to protect, despite the billions of euros of the Spaniards who wasted in their ministry: 151 victims of domestic violence, including minors killed at the hands of their mothers or parents. And cases of victims of sexual crimes are shot, many of them by imported herds: between 2020 and 2021 there have been more than thirty thousand. [[rumors]] Unfortunately, the results of your management... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u119	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u120	The results of its management do not translate into economic losses, but into loss of human life. And to all this we must add that yesterday the Supreme Court endorsed the reduction of sentences to those convicted of sexual offences with the entry into force of its already evil law alone is yes, contrary to the pronouncement of the Attorney General, another employee at the salary of the Government. In the face of the terrible results of his management, why has he not resigned? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u121	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u122	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately we are more in this country and also in this Chamber who want more feminism, who want more rights and who want more democracy. And, despite all its strategies of political violence, we will continue to legislate here to guarantee women's rights. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] As I have previously told its governing partners, the People's Party, the law alone does allow 100 per cent of victims to be protected and guarantees, for the first time, the capacity of the State to protect all victims of all forms of sexual violence. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u123	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u124	That's what we're going to continue to do, guarantee women's rights. And don't worry, you're not expected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u125	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u126	You don't listen to the data, which are overwhelming. The number of convicted persons benefiting from their legal whim is 39, in addition to 10 released. Do you imagine how those victims who were raped and outraged should feel knowing that their aggressors are free or will serve lesser sentences? But you, instead of resigning, with your forehead very high and your tongue sharp, insult those who warned you of those consequences. Its law exerts institutional violence against women. [[Several Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Very well!- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some standing positions]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u127	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u128	Your Honor, the only criticism and observations you made to the Organic Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom is that we would have to sign a contract to maintain sexual relations and that we were violating the presumption of innocence of men. So, as I say to you, listen to how there is a law that now protects all victims, the 8% who denounces and the 92% who does not denounce, and offers them the rights that they must have and that they must be guaranteed by the state. And recognize, at once, that violence has gender. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u129	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group into the updating of nuclear emergency plans. For your defence, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, those who are going to leave the Chamber, please do so quickly and quietly. Thank you. Any time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u131	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Good morning, Minister. As you know, the Spanish State currently has seven nuclear reactors in operation, two of which are located in Ascó and one in Vandellós. Therefore, les Terres de l'Ebre and the Camp de Tarragona, that is, the demarcation of Tarragona as a whole, is the most nuclear zone in the Spanish state. For years, external nuclear emergency plans have concentrated on the concerns and criticisms of municipalities close to power stations due to their lack of updating, as well as the lack of means and resources to be able to carry them out effectively and effectively. Plans that are the competence of the State, according to the PLABEN, Basic Nuclear Emergency Plan, and that are under its direction In the case of the PENTA, External Nuclear Emergency Plan of the Tarragona power plants. Although four of the seven operating groups of the PENTA correspond to the services of the Generalitat de Catalunya: intervention with Bombers de la Generalitat; citizen security and public order, with the Mossos d ́Esquadra; health and health, with the SEM and logistical support with Civil Protection. Before the Chernobyl accident the issue of nuclear safety was far away, but with Fukushima, more recent, despite the distance we saw how there could also be a nuclear accident in a very technologically developed place. And the truth is that most of the population in the nuclear zones were not precisely aware of the situation of potential risk of living near a nuclear facility and, therefore, of the importance of having an emergency plan in the area. And it showed that there was a false paradigm of the impossibility of accidents in nuclear power plants. Therefore, as a result of that disaster in March 2011, awareness of the need for greater safety in nuclear power plants and, at the same time, the willingness to learn from the mistakes made increased. During the radioactive accident, the Japanese authorities evacuated and confined the population to a radius of up to 20 kilometres and not only those living 10 kilometres from the affected atomic groups. As a result, they updated and modernised their emergency plans. It is a fact that must serve as an example for us to review and update the content of our own, as well as the application of the external areas of the power stations. In the light of experience, it would be useful to redefine the radios stipulated in the current areas of the external emergency plans, respecting the delimitation of zone I for the municipalities closest to the power stations and modifying zone II with the implementation of a sub-area II-A. This sub-area would cover the population centres within a radius of 10 to 20 kilometres from the plant, which today are the most neglected in resources and means. These municipalities should also be provided with the protection mechanisms available in the municipalities of Area Y, especially in the areas of training, information, communication, confinement and evacuation. The current technical and organisational decision-making structures proposed by the PENTA will not be able to bear the consequences of a possible nuclear accident. The Fukushima accident also caused the Council of the European Union to amend Directive 2009/71/Euratom in 2014 by increasing the safety measures and criteria for nuclear installations, a directive to be transposed by the affected States by 15 August 2017, and the Spanish State has not yet fully transposed that Directive or incorporated the learnings of Fukushima or PLABEN, which is from 2004, or the PENTA, which is from 2009. Mr Marlaska, surely you already know very well what our group's demands are because the truth is that we have been claiming them for many years. They're the same as five, ten and fifteen years ago. We want to put black on white again to ask you, please, to take letters on the matter. In our view, the effective implementation of these emergency plans is based on the urgent need to update their contents, solving real problems of implementation or development of them, and the provision of means, resources and protocols for their implementation. The deficiencies in infrastructure and resources to be able to respond effectively to a nuclear emergency in Catalonia have already been detailed, and you can consult it, by the Greuges Syndic, in its November 2019 report. Deficiencies such as those presented by the facilities of the PENTA Operational Coordination Centre, CECOP, or major deficiencies in infrastructure necessary for the concentration and subsequent evacuation of the population in the event of an emergency are some of the most well-known deficits. And to put just one example - which will seem impossible to you, ladies and gentlemen, but which is real, and I say to you -, there is an evacuation road in Riba-Roja d'Ebre, on which the State built a bridge to reach it and leads to nothing. There's no escape route. There's no road. It might sound like a joke, but it's not. We are in 2022 and there is no such road. [[Applauds]] Moreover, it cannot be that the plan is designed with the parameters of the 1980s. We see a plan in which notices would be given by fax or megaphony; totally out of date. As a result of Fukushima, more than 120 million companies have invested in internal security within nuclear power plants, but the same has not been done in external plans. Here we see a clear imbalance between the interest, in the end, of businesses and business versus the interest for citizenship, the population, in short, the people. Another of the outstanding deficits that I have had the pleasure of first-person teaching the President of the Nuclear Security Council this summer in Flix is the lack of mobile coverage in the population centers of zone I and the obsolete, as I said before, systems of alerting and communicating emergencies to citizens. How can there still be a lack of mobile coverage in nuclear zones today? It is necessary to double the capacity of mobile antennas, putting generators and generators in the antennas of these mobile phones and to do what advanced countries do in the end. Mobile telephony must be incorporated as an indispensable tool in the event of a nuclear emergency, because in the end it is the tool that all citizens carry in our pocket. We regret, Minister - and I must say this to you, with all due respect, but we regret it - the lack of interest and the lack of commitment to remedy the serious shortcomings and shortcomings of the PEN which, as I said, are obsolete. Here we can make a clear diagnosis: the work to be done has not been done. It is not a topic of a specific territory, it is not a topic of local interest, it is a matter of state, a subject of general interest. I say that it is in the general interest and in the State because it is the State that has the powers. I have talked about the updating of the external nuclear emergency plans and now I will put on the table another of the issues that we claim and that for us it is essential, and that they be simulated with the civilian population of the nuclear areas. I am from Flix, from my home I see perfectly the reactor of the nuclear power plant of Asco and, to make more concrete, I am thirty-four years old and have never lived a single simulacrum, nor one, because the last one - and the only one - was made in 1987, thirty-five years ago. And it certainly hasn't been done because you don't have the technical capacity to organize it and direct it. I also like to say it and always remember it: it is not that the people who live in nuclear areas do it with fear, much less, but that we live with respect for what we have at home and, above all, that we are safe and that we have this sense of security. And it is not understood that there is security if the population does not know what to do in an emergency and does not have an answer that is tested on how to deal with this emergency. And right now we don't have it, right now we don't know it, and this can't go on like this. I asked him in writing, Minister, more than a year and a half ago on this subject; I was told that they had done simulations inside nuclear power plants - thirteen in 2020, twenty-one in 2019 and seventeen in 2018 - but that they did not consider it advisable to do external simulations. Sorry, we disagree with that; we believe that a solution has to be given and the territory cannot wait any longer, because if we do not return to the feeling that I said before, the company, the business, is very important but the outside, the citizenship and the people, remain in the background. In addition, the PENTA Plan says there has to be a simulation every three years and this has not been achieved since 1987. We have clear examples that it is important to do these drills, for example, a couple of weeks ago in Catalonia the Generalitat did a PLASEQTA drill, which is a very important milestone due to the mobilization and involvement of all the affected neighbors, to more than 65,000 people, and which was quite a success. In short, what we are asking of the Government is to transpose Directive 2014/87/Euratom in its entirety and immediately. We ask you to approve a new external nuclear emergency plan for the nuclear power plants in Ascó and Vandellós and the implementation of a new II-A sub-area to incorporate those municipalities that, as we saw in Fukushima, was important to evacuate in the event of an accident. Also provide and ensure immediately to the municipalities of zone I a total mobile telephone coverage, as well as a transmission network within the public radio space. We also make, adapt and maintain an optimal state of the main communication infrastructures and, finally, we ask you to create a specific body to lead the planning and implementation of the PENTA Plan formed and in coordination between the Government of Catalonia and the State. Minister, we ask you not to delay your nuclear emergency responsibilities any longer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u132	Thank you. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to fix the Government's position on the question put to me by the Republican Parliamentary Group concerning, as has been said, the updating of nuclear emergency plans. A question that already has a history in other parliamentary initiatives, for example in this House, in the non-legislative proposal also of the Republican Parliamentary Group, with file number 161/000257, in which the Government is urged, as it has done in its first intervention, to, among other things, implement the correct transposition of Directive 2014/87/Euratom, to approve a new external nuclear emergency plan for the Ascó and Vandellós plants and in which, above all, they raise something that the interpellation group has done in its first intervention, such as the transfer of management of the external nuclear emergency plan to some extent by the Conselleria de Interior of the Generalitat. As I am responding to some of these questions, I would first of all like to point out that Directive 2014/87/Euratom is fully transposed into our legal system. In this regard, as you know, Royal Decree 1400/2018 of 23 November, approving the regulation on nuclear safety in nuclear installations, is the legal instrument through which this transposition is carried out. This is a rule incorporating, as I said, Directive 2014/87/Euratom as regards the establishment of the basic nuclear safety requirements applicable to all nuclear installations in our country. But it goes much further, because, together with the certification of those issues that are still to be updated in our legal order, it incorporates criteria from different instructions of the Nuclear Security Council, ensuring that in this area our country has a regulatory framework as appropriate, unified, coherent and, above all, with the regulatory rank appropriate to a norm of these characteristics. Your Honour, you mention in your speech to draw up an external nuclear emergency plan PENTA from the Ascó and Vandellós power stations. I must point out that it is now in an advanced stage of processing, as it has also acknowledged in part, an amendment to the five existing nuclear plans, with a view to finalising the transposition in the field of civil protection of Directive 2013/59/Euratom, it is estimated that it can be approved by the end of this year. I would also like to remind you that civil protection plans, which act as plans outside nuclear power plants, are - I would dare to ensure that almost as much as any state civil protection plan - in constant processes of reviewing, updating and measuring their capabilities by carrying out the corresponding exercises and simulations to which it referred, in which the implementation of internal and external plans is combined. Allow me at this point to give you some examples of the dates of exercises and simulations that include practically all the nuclear reactors that exist in our country: 21 April in Almaraz, 19 May in Garoña, 30 July in Vandellós II, 20 September in Coffres and 24 November last in Ascó. We are therefore talking about a proper transposition of the directive, of updated and continuously revised plans, as appropriate, and that is also projected towards the work plans called coordination and technical assistance groups of each of these plans. We are also talking about ongoing work to support the operation of the set of plans through the training of both the Nuclear Security Council and the Ministry of the Interior through the National School of Civil Protection. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the competing claim that your group has made on various occasions, and which I myself am aware of through my contacts with the Department of Interior of the Catalan Government, it is necessary to make two assessments - always on the basis of maximum loyalty and coordination and cooperation between the two departments, the Ministry of the Interior and the Conselleria d ́Interior, which I would like to acknowledge here and now this very important and very close work - one of a legal and other case law nature. Article 15.3 of Act No. 17/2015 of 9 July 2015 of the National Civil Protection System establishes, in relation to the different types of plans, those whose purpose is to deal with risks ranging from floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, to chemical, biological, nuclear or radioactive use processes. It is true that the precept itself says that these special plans may have a state or autonomous character, according to the territorial scope on which their implementation is planned, but it is also true that the same precept clearly and clearly says that I will quote - 'the special plans relating to nuclear risk... will in any case be of state competence, without prejudice to the participation in them of the administrations of the autonomous communities and of the local entities...', cerro quotes. In other words, nuclear risk management is the exclusive competence of the State at all its stages. This was established in the first Civil Protection Act 2/1985, as is known. In this regard, the fact that nuclear risk management is an indivisible whole has three reasons. Firstly, because the Nuclear Security Council is involved in its processes, which, as your Lordship knows perfectly well and has stated here, has exclusive regulatory competence throughout the national territory. Secondly, because, in this way, when a nuclear emergency takes place, it is not necessary to declare the previous declaration of national interest, which facilitates the activation of the different capacities to respond to such situations. But there is also an intense international dimension in this field, since an accident knows no geographical limits between autonomous administrations and its consequences often go beyond the scope of the sovereignty of States themselves. These three reasons, ladies and gentlemen, are those which have advised the legislator to reside in the field of competition in the general administration of the State. These are three reasons which, in addition, have important legal support in the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. I cite as examples Judgments 123/1984 and 133/1990, which, when conceiving the competence of civil protection as competitors, do so by safeguarding that the General Administration of the State has the competence to respond to emergencies in which a national interest is involved by mobilizing the resources available to it in order to safeguard the coordination of the capacities of the civil protection system. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the demand to some extent for competition raised on various occasions by the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Government cannot agree in any way on this point, since we are faced with a type of risk that has an undoubted national nature, can even have an international nature, and in which it is preferable for response mechanisms to have a single command and with the capacity to articulate as many capacities as possible. However, Your Honor, as you have also mentioned, this does not mean in any way denying the Generalitat or other administrations their participation in matters clearly related to nuclear risk management, which you have stated in your statement. I think of public safety, as you have done, that in the case of Catalonia it is an eminently autonomous management competition; I also think of health, as you have also recalled, transferred to Catalonia and the rest of the autonomous communities, and I also think, as you have stated, of certain public services or policies for the care of vulnerable groups in which not only the Generalitat participates, but also the local governments, as you have underlined and pointed out their importance. In this regard, allow me to remind you that the Ministry of the Interior subsidizes the local governments located in the so-called planning zone I - to which you have made reference without prejudice to the modifications you see fit and which are the most exposed to nuclear incidents - the construction and maintenance of the facilities established for the safety of your population. In this respect, allow me to share with you the data on the corresponding budget implementation, with more than EUR 3 million, of which almost EUR 2 900 000 has already been paid or is in the process of being paid, i.e. which has a budget implementation of more than 99%. By the order of the Ministry of the Interior this year, grants have been called for to local entities associated with nuclear emergency plans, and the call has been resolved by granting grants to forty-nine municipalities for a total amount of EUR 2.5 million, of which, for example, for Tarragona there is a total amount of more than EUR 706 000. We are currently receiving the required documentation to proceed with the payment, which, if I recall correctly, was an amendment from your parliamentary group in that regard. The documentation for your subscription is already being received. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The Government considers, first of all, that our regulatory framework for action against nuclear disasters is not only fully aligned with Community legislation, but also incorporates the appropriate regulatory rank for issues falling within the competence of the Nuclear Security Council. I also believe that, far from saying that we are faced with a rigid and stable framework, we have the appropriate review mechanisms, and here are the exercises and simulations carried out this year, the review processes also planned and the whole process of training activities developed in the National School of Civil Protection and the PWS system - Personal Warning System - the one of warning to an emergency situation that manages the autonomous communities to notify the population by SMS messages. Finally, the Government considers that the competent nuclear risk management design is the right one to articulate an effective response in the event of a disaster. A framework that balances the competences and capacities of the different public administrations...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u134	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u135	I'm on my way. And we are open, as you have said, to any possible supplementary agreement in order to ensure the safety of all our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u136	Thank you. Mrs Pujol and Farré have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u137	Thank you, President. Minister, thank you for your reply, but you have not responded to the practical approaches to which I referred. You have spoken about the updating of the regulations, but, for example, Royal Decree 783/2001 of 6 July 2001 on ionizing radiation has been in force for 12 years - the last one published in the BOE was in 2010-; Royal Decree 1836/1999 of 3 December 1999 published 14 years ago; Royal Decree 1546/2004 of 25 June 2004 on the basic nuclear emergency plan 13 years ago, in 2009, and that of civil protection against radiological risk more than 12 years ago. I believe that all of this legislation needs to be published quickly in the BOE, if that is what you are working on, in order to be within the regulation, as Europe points out. As I was telling you, you have not responded to the issue of nuclear emergency drills, but not to the updating of the plans. Left Republican - I want to say this - is the only group that has been putting the issue of nuclear safety on top of the table for more than a decade and at the heart of the General Courts' debate, and the Government ignores it, even though it has adopted GNP or resolutions of the Nuclear Security Council that insist on it. Here I want to make a little memory; I think it should be done. In 2008, Senator Pere Muñoz of Flix called for the transfer of nuclear safety competition to the Generalitat. In 2011, the same senator, Pere Muñoz, asked Minister Rubalcaba of the Zapatero Government about the revision and updating of obsolete nuclear emergency plans. In 2017 - you have made reference to this, minister - my fellow Member Jordi Salvador managed to approve a GNP on the updating of the plans. In 2018, Senator Miguel Aubà, who also did a great job in claiming nuclear safety issues, asked Minister Ribera about their update, and Minister Rivera was very surprised and also shocked to learn that plans had not been updated or simulated for thirty years. [[applause]] Also in 2018, my fellow Member Joan Capdevilla claimed the same from Minister Ribera. Therefore, as I said, we are the only group that we have put the issue of nuclear emergency at the centre of the debate, but we see no improvement, no action, and we see that the Government is doing absolutely nothing to implement it. And we wanted to highlight this today. Firstly, we want to highlight the shortcomings; secondly, to put security and people at the centre of the nuclear debate, not so much business, and, thirdly, to establish a necessary collaboration - you have also said that you agree - of the Generalitat with the State for the possible management of a nuclear emergency. Thirty-three years of Vandellós' accident had been completed a month ago. I think it is necessary to make memory and learn from mistakes in order not to repeat them. But in order not to repeat them, we need the State to fulfil its responsibilities and competences. If the State does not have the capacity to update the plans or to organize simulations, pass the competition to the Generalitat and we will make it effective quickly. Either he transfers his powers to us, minister, or rigorously confronts his obligations to the citizenship of our country, while we are still in this state. Don't act like the garden dog, who neither eats nor lets eat. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u138	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. As I have said before, the work between the central Government and the Government of Catalonia, in the area of internal affairs, civil protection and nuclear disaster prevention, is truly exemplary, respecting the competitive framework, but coordinated and always with the will to improve. We are doing so and now we will continue to do so with the new Directorate-General for Civil Protection, as we did before, with the same means, even I believe that a meeting is already planned in order to be able to coordinate the same. I would like to reiterate briefly three issues relating to our operational framework. Firstly, Directive 2014/87/Euratom, to which you have referred, is already fully incorporated into our legal system, as I have indicated. In this sense, we have a regulation, as I have also explained, aligned with the countries in our environment, which is complemented by an operation in the process of revision and updating, as are the plans. And I have mentioned it before and I repeat it now - a modification of the five existing nuclear plans is in the advanced stage of processing, with the aim of finalising their transposition into the civil protection field of Directive 2013/59/Euratom. Secondly, civil protection plans that act as external plans are subject to a rigorous and constant - you also know it - review process, in order to verify their operationality. You don't just have to rewrite a plan, you have to check that it's operational. As I have already pointed out, the mechanism is by means of simulations or exercises, most of which - I insist - are complemented by the combined application of the internal and external emergency plans, being 2022 an intense year in the celebration of these exercises, as I have also exposed, in Garoña, Almaraz, Ascó, Vandellós or Cofrentes. These are plans that are also reviewed when it comes to action by action groups. At this point, I would like to point out that the following plans have been revised since 2018. In 2022, the plans of the coordination and technical assistance group of the Nuclear Plan of Tarragona, of the health group of the Nuclear Plan of Tarragona, of the action groups of the Nuclear Plan of Valencia and of the radiological group of Cáceres. In 2020 it was the plan of the logistics group of the National Plan of Cáceres. And in the period 2018 and 2019 it was done the same with the security group of the Nuclear Plan of Tarragona, as well as the radiological group, that will be updated this month of December, as I also recalled. In addition, the report by the Catalan Civil Protection Commission is pending for the updating of the plan of the Tarragona intervention group. Thirdly, the Government understands that we are faced with an appropriate competitive design. Already since the previous Civil Protection Act of 1985, as I said, the management of nuclear risk and for the reasons set out above is a matter of competence of the State, without prejudice to coordination in other respects. In this regard, it has its full anchor, as we have said before, in the understanding that nuclear risk and its scope operate Stately through the Nuclear Security Council, which is affected by an intense international dimension, as has also been stated. This does not exclude, as I said and as we are demonstrating, the involvement of various elements in the management of nuclear risk by other administrations, especially the Government, and there is no problem, but quite the contrary, as we are establishing. These non-minor elements, such as public safety, health or vulnerable groups, are essential determinants. That is why - I conclude - I believe that we are in an important framework of coordination and cooperation. We can and must improve, but we are working. I can't promise you that we're going to sit down and talk about it, because we're already sitting and we're already working on it. What I can promise you is that we will continue to make progress in this coordination, because I do not doubt the will of any of those we are sitting here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u140	Thank you very much. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SIGNIFICANT CONSEQUENCES CONCERNED BY THE ENFORCEMENT OF ORGANICAL LAW 10/2022 OF 6 SEPTEMBER, OF INTEGRATED GUARANTEE OF SEXUAL FREEDOM. [[File number 172/000249]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u141	We move on to the next point. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the Minister of Justice to account for the serious consequences of the entry into force of the Organic Law 10/2022 of 6 September on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom. For her defence, Mrs González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u142	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, your colleague Irene Montero has very seriously insulted my parliamentary group a few minutes ago. We will demand a retraction, and we hope that you will now express your rejection of the insults uttered by your government partner. [[Applauds]] Last Tuesday, Minister, after recovering from his discharge, which allowed him to be absent when all the alarms about the review of the penalties for sexual offences were unleashed, you in this House skilfully stood out from the disaster generated by the application of the law saying: I was not on the Council of Ministers. It is true that you were not in the Council of Ministers, but it is equally true that you have been Minister of Justice since 10 July 2021 and have had exactly 385 days to learn what was going to happen with the application of this law. You, who also appear as a feminist woman and who has practiced feminism since her professional responsibility as a judge, cannot tell us that under these conditions you did not have the concern to review the bill that caused your predecessor, Judge Juan Carlos Campo, to leave the office you are now occupying abruptly. Madam Minister, the responsibility for the disaster that is taking place day after day before the horrified eyes of the victims, their families and all the Spaniards who have sisters, daughters, nieces, potential victims of sexual violence, lies with the Government as a whole, with its president at the head, but especially with the Minister of Equality, Irene Montero - the minister who has just severely insulted, as she said, our group a few minutes ago - with you and also with Mr Marlaska, who in her speech on this subject has lied and shamed the House as a whole. [[Applauds]] The response of the Government, those of the two political groups that make up it, has been, as in most cases, divergent. While the mayonnaise side insults the judges and disqualifies them, calling them sexists and encouraging them to form, arguing at the same time that the law is fantastic and, possibly, very chulular, too, the socialist side prefers to choose to appease the storm over time, talking about the necessary unification of criteria both of the Prosecutor's Office and of the Supreme Court. The prosecution has already issued a decree. As for the Supreme Court, the most naive may have believed the President of the Government when he announced that we should wait for his opinion. You should have explained to the President, as Minister of Justice, that you cannot invoke the name of the Supreme Court in vain, because it is not the task of the High Court to unify criteria. We do not know how much longer Pedro Sánchez wants us to wait, without the government doing anything or Parliament either. But as we continue to wait in vain, the daily reality is that of the reviews of the convictions, that of an incessant drip of discounts that will not end, however much you continue to yearn for a miracle, that will not occur. You have changed the Criminal Code, changed the offences and their penalties, so that some have already said, Minister, unfortunately, that the real name of the law should be the law guaranteeing the offender's full sexual freedom, as they are the only beneficiaries of their harmful and surprising way of lawmaking. [[applause]] You are now looking into yesterday's Supreme Court ruling, which ruled on the convictions of the Arandina case, raising the sentences of the two sentenced to nine years and one day, but also warning that with the previous Criminal Code you would be sentenced to one more year. The review of this case is not a final judgment review, such as the ones that had been known so far, but a response to the cassation appeal on the judgment handed down by the High Court of Castile and León, to which it corrects. There is not in the sentence of the Supreme, minister, generalities or any kind of universal doctrine that can be understood as a unification of any criterion, but a brief reference to the fact that the new norm can be applied for the benefit of the defendant when he sets a lower penalty than that corresponding to the old one, analyzing on a case-by-case basis and not on a global basis. But you expect and wish that, in the meantime, other controversial and scandalous decisions, which are adding up every day, can cover with a blanket of fog the great social shock that has entailed the discovery of the consequences of your law: that those who are condemned in Spain now for a crime of a sexual nature can see revised their sentence if with the new law the penalties are more benign, point. The Attorney-General's Office, which you came to at first instance when you saw that what was announced in the reports of the preliminary draft law became a reality, issued a decree last Monday to require the prosecutors to be uniform in their positions, establishing that it would not be agreed to review final convictions when the sentence of the sentence is likely to be imposed in the new legal framework; that is, only when it exceeds what would be imposed by the new legislation. It is an important clarification, but not effective, for this unification of doctrine sought from the Government. In addition, there are hearings, such as the provincial court in Almeria, which remind them that the application of the fifth transitional provision of the Penal Code is not applicable, but that all cases must be reviewed even if the penalty imposed is reimposed by the new law. On Monday 28, Minister, the Provincial Court of Cantabria issued a car to lower the prison sentences to eleven years of two men sentenced to eighteen years in prison in 2020 for a crime of sexual assault and necessary cooperation; Minister, seven years less. The Galician High Court of Justice also announced on Monday in a judgment another reduction of sentence - the court has no doubt that it is a law favorable to the defendant - to a man who abused a minor of fifteen years after maintaining contact with her through Instagram. The relationship of events to a minor, as in these cases, is truly hard and difficult to bear. The Galician High Court of Justice itself has concluded that it is appropriate to re-examine the judgements handed down in the light of the specific circumstances of the case and to make a careful analysis of the extent to which it favours the offender of the new legislation. On the other hand, the Provincial Court of Navarre announced yesterday that it does not intend to review the final sentences when they are available in the new fork of sentences. It is a fundamental issue, Minister, because if the condemned Manada who is in a situation of reduced sentence were to be reduced, the scandal would be unusual and the Executing Government's discredit of the total and absolute reform. In summary, 11 provincial hearings out of the 17 that have been delivered favour the application of the most pro-convict approach in sentencing reviews. At least forty-two convicts have been benefited by the new law so far, with thirty-seven reviews of the sentence of discharge and five subsequent sentences, and ten prisoners have been released. Minister, answer me, please. Was this the purpose of the law? [[Applauds]] To assume that the Government did not understand what the General Council of the Judiciary warned it in its report on the review of the sentences already imposed, that is, clearly that we are, as a country, in the hands of reckless, incapable, reckless and carefree people. In fact, the first desperate statements from the Ministry of Equality seemed to indicate this. I quote the statements. If there was a mistake, I'd be the first to recognize it, there won't be a penalty review. These are statements by the Minister of Equality. What's happening here is that there are judges who are not complying with the law. They're from the Minister of Equality. Some of the judges have been elected as opposition to the coalition government and, in particular, to the Ministry of Equality. They're from the Minister of Social Rights. What judges have to do is train. Stand by, Your Honors. They're from the Secretary of State for Equality. Machist justice creates impunity. The problem is not the law. They are from the delegation of the Government for Gender Violence. [[Applauds]] Minister, you yourself are a judge, like your colleagues the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence, as well as the government delegate for gender-based violence, who refers to sexist justice and impunity and defends the high technical quality of the text of the law. As a judge and a minister of justice, I would note greater than the Kingdom, what view do these disqualifications and insults deserve? Do you believe that judges are not trained or, on the contrary, do you believe that it is those responsible for the Ministry of Equality who are not trained, at least as far as criminal matters are concerned? [[Applauds]] In view of the enormous gravity of the situation, there are two positions, not solutions - positions, not solutions - since there is no solution to the reduction of many of the sentences passed, and they are to change the law or not to change it, always thinking, of course, of future crimes, since the law is in force and its effects remain until a new one is approved. But also in this, as in so many other things, the Government does not clarify itself and defends different positions. While the spokesman of the Government, the other Minister Montero in this matter, has mentioned on several occasions the possibility of studying the law carefully and the judgments it generates with a view to a possible modification, the President of the Government and the Puemite part of it, together with some jurists, consider it not a question of the law, which is great. So, in practice, we are being told that moderate punishment for sex offenders is more just. In Words, for example, of the Professor of Criminal Law of the University of Palencia, Peace Lloria, there are discounts of penalties that can be reasonable, since some of the above were disproportionate if compared to the protected legal good of life. Similarly, the authors of the preliminary draft text, who had already warned in numerous interviews of their decision to lower some penalties, said that Spain was a very punitive country. Consequently, we have to conclude that the enormous citizen and feminist protest over the first sentence to the case of La Manada, which shouted on the streets 'is not abuse, is rape' and which led to the revision of sentences for crimes against sexual freedom, resulting in this organic law, has been distorted, becoming, at least from a criminal point of view, a huge fraud against women, since it is voluntary or involuntary, out of conviction, ignorance and folly, the Government has lowered the criminal response to sexual violence. [[Applauds]] In other words, La Manada's first sentence, which gave rise to a great social response on the streets for the lightness of the prison sentences to which the perpetrators were sentenced, has resulted in the conclusion that the harshness in convictions for sexual offences is macho. The mockery of the women who protested in the streets saying 'brother, I do believe you' and 'only it is', slogans that the leaders of the Ministry of Equality repeated to the point of satiety, is immeasurable. It turns out that the Government would have taken into account that the high punishments against sexual aggressors do not increase the protection of women, since it is punitive populism, just as from this very stand its lords of the United Nations can remind us machaconically when referring to other laws. In short, those convicted by La Manada do not need such serious convictions, as their case would not serve as an example to discourage the commission of similar crimes by others, nor is it necessary, according to the ministry and the law in force, such a high penalty for such crimes...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u143	Your Honor, please finish. He's got more time later.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u144	I'm done, President. This is the surprising conclusion that we came to by analyzing the legislative task of the Government, which has led to the amendment of the Criminal Code contrary to what it promised, when these repugnant events and its light punishment convulsed Spanish society. Therefore, Minister, we would like to hear, first of all, your opinion on these issues. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u145	I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak to you from the utmost respect. I believe that the President of Congress, who is the head of the debate and who has the voice to that effect in this House, has very rightly expressed what she should do under the Rules of Procedure. All I can tell you is that always, from any rostrum I've been in, from any space I've been in, I've respected all people. I may have liked more or less what they could say, but I have respected all people, which has not always happened to me. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yes, yes, on the part of your parliamentary group, when your spokesman refers to the fact that we all have to respect each other. Look, I've been called from St. Ildefonso's girl to mudita the other day. I am a minister of the Government of Spain and if that does not respect you, if you do not respect the institutions, you do not respect yourselves. [[applause]] I'm going to go to the subject we're dealing with. The Organic Law of Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom is a good law... [[Rumors]] I respect you, ladies and gentlemen, just as I respect you. It is a good law to protect the rights of women victims of sexual attacks. Every time rights are extended in our country, every time we decide to protect women, children, girls or victims of sexual offences in general, we are faced with an advance, a democratic advance, a breakthrough in solidarity society, a breakthrough in solidarity democracy, as is our country, which we have demonstrated in many things. Spain is a great country of solidarity, and there are references such as that of organ transplants or the fight against gender-based violence. I encourage you to return to that spirit of 2004, where all parliamentary forces voted in favour of the law against gender-based violence, and to 2017 when the State Pact against Gender-based Violence was adopted, whose commitment has recently been renewed here, although not by all groups in this House, we must also say so. Every time we banish the violence of our society, any kind of violence, we take a step forward and demonstrate our democratic commitment. However, you have been greatly missed, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, in many of the democratic progress that this country has experienced. A part of your party - I will go back several years, more than forty - did not even vote for the Constitution, although now you act as if you are the only authors of the Constitution, the only legitimate interpreters, the only ones who have the capacity to interpret and use it at your will. Sometimes they show up as part-time constitutionalists; if not, look at what they are doing with the General Council of the Judiciary, which I believe is generating the biggest institutional crisis our country is experiencing with this absolutely unjustified blockade of the governing body of judges. [[applause]] And let's put aside the law of divorce and criticism of my predecessor, Don Francisco Fernández Ordóñez, who was also Minister of Justice. Nor am I going to insist on the successive regulations that have had, for example, the voluntary termination of pregnancy. You have never been on the side of women's rights - neither in assumptions nor deadlines - to decide on their sexual and reproductive rights. Sexual and reproductive rights are key to women's emancipation, and you know very well that controlling those rights means controlling our lives, our freedom and our security. Were it not you who also voted against equal marriage, against same-sex marriage, and those who punished a part of society with an ominous remedy before the Constitutional Court, who did not have the courage to withdraw, even if years and years had passed since the enactment of the law? It certainly hurts, ladies and gentlemen, to hear you now. You've been broken up. Spain is broken, the family is broken, but the country is moving, moving and progressing, despite you. Economic data after a pandemic, after a volcano, in the midst of a war in Europe, are positive. But of course, you don't want to talk about that, you talk about other things not to mention the progress and progress we are making in our country. And it is not only important to talk about economic data, the economic situation, but also about civil rights and public freedoms, because if we talk about social benefits, the list of progress that you have never been and will be in, can be very long, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is you who are in the policy of the big brush, of the policy of the big argument, you are in the policy of that simple populist argument, of the play of words about serious, very serious things. I wish you many years of opposition, but I also wish my country, Spain, an opposition which you do not have today, an opposition which is commensurate with the circumstances. [[rumors]] And I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, the Organic Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom is a good law to protect victims. This law equips us with comprehensive policies, effective policies to prevent sexual violence; coordinates the different public administrations of all levels, which is also fundamental; responds to one of the most serious, most obvious forms of violence in our society, but also more common - the data we have is only the tip of deliceberg of what really exists in terms of sexual attacks, sexual violence; and protects people who, under different circumstances, do not come to report and others who are victims of crimes and who do not come to express their opposition to the acts of a sexual nature in which they are involved, who have paralysing fears, who are frightened. And it was about time, ladies and gentlemen, that the victim had nothing to prove, it was about time we finally became aware of the importance of consent, of that explicit consent, which could be express consent, tacit consent, but never should we ever understand or presume that there is consent in any sexual relationship, ever. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know why this law now touches? Because those who present this inquiry, the People's Party did nothing really to stop the attacks on sexual freedom in our country. These days they have been reminded - and rightly so - that they did nothing when the social confrontation grew in Catalonia also there for 2017, but it is that neither did they do anything when society cried out against sexism. [[Applauds]] Moreover, today society is crying out against sexism and what you have done has been to seek as colleagues of fatigue to that extreme right that directly denies that there is gender violence. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, pointing to the Presidency: Extreme right, point out, eh!, extreme right]] In 2017 you were probably so worried about Mr.Bárcenas' accounting notes that you did not govern the country, you lived in a constant flight forward and you were distracted by other issues that mattered to you much more than women's rights, that is obvious. [[rumors]] Back in 2018, the then Minister of Justice, Mr Catalá, said in reference to the crimes against sexual freedom that changes in the Criminal Code had to be considered. It reactivated, set in motion the General Commission for Codification and commissioned a reform; then it became aware that the General Commission for Codification needed more women; it was lost in a lot of good intentions, it was lost in euphemisms, like committing to continue working, like emplacement to reform, and in the end it did nothing, there was no reform, when society was calling for changes from years earlier and it did nothing, nothing more absolute, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know what was the preliminary conclusion of the General Commission of Codification there by May 2018? His conclusion was that progress had to be made to finally eliminate the distinction between abuse and sexual assault, that is, the model we now have with the law on guarantees of sexual freedom that has been incorporated into our Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the changes that you advocated were only in the Penal Code, and here what has been done has been to provide comprehensive, holistic protection that addresses different aspects, different perspectives and different public policies. But if we just stick to the changes in the Penal Code, the law of sexual freedom has modified penalties for some typical behaviors. It implements a system of progressive punishment far from the extremes of punitiveism; a system provided, as also stated in the report of the Council of State precisely because of that proportion of what has been spoken of in this rostrum, of the proportion of the protected legal assets in question. In the debates in this House on the law, just as you focused primarily on consent, ridiculed, trivialized all about consent, when there are other countries that have such a model, such as England or Sweden, there were those who said that the law seemed punitive to them. A sign that the system of penalties was well thought out is that it received criticism for one thing and its opposite, for reducing penalties and at the same time for being punitive. But the truth is that we find cases that today are punished in some cases with more severe penalties than before as there are cases - and that is so - that are also punished with less penalty. It is the consequence of this new model which integrates a single crime, but which does not simply add up to pre-existing crimes of different gravity. And here, on the issue of revisions, there is no automatism possible, it is not that today the case of who was then punished for aggression with the lowest penalty is reviewed. This is the approach followed by the Office of the Attorney-General, and which also follows other provincial hearings, are divergent criteria. And I think we should be careful to wait and see what the Supreme Court can determine. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u147	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u148	Thank you, President. Minister, you have been unable to censor the serious insult to our group by your government partner, Irene Montero. This is not a comment made in the heat of a parliamentary debate, it is a very serious affront to the fact that we will demand responsibilities, and we are very saddened by your cowardice, Minister, when it comes to calling this insult and the lies we have suffered today. [[applause]] Irene Montero has today passed from alleged victim of political violence, which was what she intended at last week's plenary session, to aggressor. What do you think of that? [[Applauds]] A few days ago he told us that on the subway, on the bus, you heard about the reform of the General Council of the Judiciary and now, that there is real social alarm about the release of a whole series of sex offenders, you haven't told us much about what is being heard on buses. Are you still listening to the concern of the Spaniards about this issue that really affects them? [[Applauds]] With regard to the questions I have asked you about the law, except for that mantra that you, all the members of the government, of the socialist bench, have repeated, that it is a good law, you really have not told us much more. However, he has devoted much of his intervention to accusing the People's Party of doing nothing. At least, minister, it is not on our backs that we bear the responsibility for the departure of all those sexual aggressors who are seeing their sentence reduced these days because of the law they have passed from the Government. [[applause]] These are the first words about the umpteenth amendment of the Criminal Code that is being made in this legislature and which was also aimed at reforming and reducing penalties for crimes of a sexual nature; curiously a reform that you were not obliged to do because of political or budgetary commitments made with your government partners, but rather a reform that you had made by vocation, let us say so. Apart from everything you have commented on in relation to the People's Parliamentary Group, there is one issue that I would like to highlight, which is the fact that all this happens when we have just heard that the crimes against freedom and sexual compensation in Spain have increased nothing less than 12.1% compared to 2019, as colleagues from my bench have told the Minister of the Interior, because the report that gives these figures is the one published by the Ministry of the Interior in relation to 2019, comparing the figures of 2021 precisely with those of 2019 and not those of 2020, the year of the pandemic. That report indicates that in recent years there has been a consistent pattern of growth in sexual offences in our country. When crime increases more and there is more danger for women, you respond with a theoretical worsening of the types, the disappearance of abuse and the universalization of aggression - in the previous Criminal Code a more serious crime - but it is really an exclusively cosmetic and terminological reform, because the rise of abuse to a higher category of gravity does not lead to the rise of the applicable penalties, but exactly the opposite. [[Applauds]] The victims of these crimes, ministers - I see them commenting on the details - are women by 90% and the most frequent crimes are those of abuse. But the most serious of all, ladies and gentlemen, is that of almost half the crimes, 48.8% of the victims are underage girls. And an equally important fact is that it warns us that sexual assaults committed in a group increase. A mantle of suspicion has fallen on all its legislative activity. You cannot hide yourself in that you were not yet a minister when this law began its processing. [[The lady]] The disaster of the law splashes not only at the Ministry of Equality, but also at you, first of all, for not having warned the Council of Ministers of what was going to happen, and, of course, at the whole government, with its president at the head, and puts under suspicion any legislative initiative that you have brought or brought to the House. Will it be the same miscalculations that hide your draft law on trafficking, which will come to this House in the next few days? I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u149	Yes, Mrs. González, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u150	I'm done, President. Minister, what do you intend to do to compensate the victims and restore confidence to all Spanish women? What do you intend to do to restore legal certainty and confidence in justice, an indirect victim of the legislative nonsense that is coming to this House one after another? And finally, what are you going to do to restore confidence to Spanish women, who do not believe in you? The resignation of the Minister of Equality has been a cry for a few days, but yours will also be a cry if you continue anchored in the defense of the law, in the paralysis, in the inaction and, also, in the deception of the Spanish and Spanish. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u151	Thank you, Mrs. González. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, complaints often increase; it is not that crimes increase, sometimes the number of complaints increases, which is what is seen, precisely because laws are made that, as they are more protective, the victims trust the system more and that is why they make more complaints. [[Rumors]] This happened, for example, with the comprehensive law, where there was a very important peak of complaints about crimes of gender-based violence. And we will also have to study what the impact has been in that regard by passing the law guaranteeing sexual freedom. The text of the law is the result of the majority will of this House and also of the Senate and the configuration of penalties is also the result of that decision of the House. Create a new criminal type where old criminal types are inserted, which before were abuse and aggression, was and is a valid option. There are other countries - I have said this before - which have also chosen this route, as was even seen when the former Minister of Catalonia was still a minister. But what did you do in the process of law? The truth is, you did more than your neighbors on the bench, you didn't fix anything. You directly wanted the Penal Code to be changed; that is, a position that was not even what you yourself defended when you were in the government, when Mr Catalá was Minister of Justice, which, although I said it with a small mouth, already pointed out that the reform of the Penal Code was necessary. So of consistency, Your Honor, you are not very leftover, nor are you very brave. They did no more, their amendment to the whole turned - I quote almost textually - on the definition of express consent and on the distinction between abuse and aggression. A classic in the People's Party, say one thing in the government even if it's reluctant when society cries and then do another thing when you're in the opposition. But moreover, ladies and gentlemen, apart from not maintaining a minimum of coherence, you have been champions in agitating the bubbles. I will be clear, in no case did the General Council of the Judiciary warn - in no case - about the revision of sentences for the modification of the minimum limit of penalties. The observation was for the maximum limit, but not for the minimum limit, although you have been in charge of agitating that observation. I believe that the whole of society, and the victims in particular, want any political debate to take place through the channels of truth, through the terms of truth. Your Honor, for some years now you have opted for that path of political populism, which only serves to strain and confront, in addition to very sensitive issues, such as these, offering vain solutions that only increase frustration in society, and precisely because you did everything to a single solution, which is that there are ever higher penalties. The day had to come when a reform of the attacks on sexual freedom was to be addressed, and the times required an end to the differences and injustices that occurred in some definitions, such as that of chemical submission. Chemical submission, thanks to this reform, is no longer considered abuse and is now considered sexual assault, something that was being demanded by women's organizations and by society as a whole, because no one really understood it. That you did not address when you were in government, and it is an absolutely basic issue. I urge you, we have adopted a different system of penalties and we have unified into one crime what before were abuse and aggression, an option as valid as the one that can choose a government in its criminal policy, the one that decides. We must let the judiciary continue to make interpretations and unify criteria. And, moreover, we understand, it is our view, that the review of sentences is not an automatic calculation, but must be done according to the circumstances of each case. In addition, new aggravating factors have been introduced that were not covered by the previous Penal Code, as well as very serious and very important penalties, such as the automatic disqualification of the right to parental leave when the victim is a minor; that is to say, parental leave will be withdrawn for the aggressors of minors even when the victim is not their own child. I believe that this is also a great step forward in protecting the victims who are minors, the children who can live with an aggressor who has abused other children. This country deserves to be seriously debated and to remove the Penal Code from any viscerality...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u153	Minister, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u154	...and any sentimentalism in search of votes. I would ask you to move away from constantly seeking political revenue and not to put any interest in political revenue before our country's interests. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL ROOM, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION: - URGENT COMPARISON OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR BEFORE THE FULL OF CAMARA, REQUESTED BY THE MRS GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO AND OTHER 85 DIPUTATES, ON THE GROUND OF THE LAST ARRANGEMENTS PUBLISHED BY SEVERAL COMMUNICATIONS ON THE TRAGICAL EPISODIOS SUCCESSED ON THE MELLA BORDER ON 24 June 2022, WHICH FINALIZED WITH DECHANES OF INMIGRANTS FALLECIDED, AS THE REPORT OF THE DEFENSOR OF THE PEOPLE, DEMISING THE WORDS OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR IN PARLIAMENTARY, AS THE VISUALIZATION OF ALL SAFEGUARDS OF THE PERIMETER OF THE MELLA BORDER WITH MARRUEC DURING THE HOURS OF THE HOURS ARE PRODUCED. [[File number 210/00116]] - COMPARISON OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR TO THE FULL OF THE CAMERA, REQUESTED BY THE CITIZEN AND JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS, FOR EXPLANATIONS ON THE TRAGEDY HAPPENED ON JUNE 2022 IN THE WALL OF BEAUTY. [[File number 210/000118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u156	We continue with the appearance of the Minister of the Interior at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. The following requests for appearances are being discussed together: the urgent appearance of the Minister of the Interior before the plenary of the House, requested by Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo and another eighty-five Members, on the occasion of the latest events published by several media outlets on the tragic episodes on the border of Melilla on 24 June 2022, which ended with dozens of dead immigrants, as well as the Ombudsman's report, which refutes the words of the Minister of the Interior in the parliamentary seat, and the visualization of all the security cameras on the perimeter of the border of Melilla with Morocco during the hours during which the fateful events took place. And secondly, the appearance of the Minister of the Interior before the plenary of the House, requested by the parliamentary groups Citizens and Mixed, to give explanations on the tragedy that occurred in June 2022 in the Melilla fence. I give the floor, to support these appearances, to the Minister of the Interior. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, speak before this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies to report again on the events that took place on 24 June at the border between the Moroccan city of Nador and the Autonomous City of Melilla. The speech you will be making in this sitting before your ladies and gentlemen is in addition to the appearance that I have already made before everyone at the plenary session on 21 September; it also joins the oral questions that I answered in this House by Members Iñarritu and Bermúdez de Castro; as well as another which, being put by Mrs Vázquez Blanco, ended up dealing with this question, and it joins the answers in the Senate seat which facilitates Mr Martínez-Maillo and Mr Tellado Filgueira on this same question. Madam President, as in each of the speeches I have made on the events of Nador, I would like to begin by expressing on behalf of the Government our condolences for the loss of human lives, our solidarity with the relatives of the deceased and also with the agents of the Moroccan security forces, as well as with the fifty-five members of the Melilla Civil Guard who were wounded with varying consideration during events that should never have occurred. The events that motivated my appearance, which took place on 24 June, have their starting point at 5 a.m., when Moroccan security forces communicate to several Civil Guard patrols that were on the border perimeter that a very large group from Mount Gurugú was heading towards the fence area. This information is verified by the Early Warning System of the Civil Guard, which confirms the deployment of a large group of Moroccan police vehicles in the vicinity of the perimeter and, above all, when the operational centre of the Melilla Command detects the presence of some 1,700 people. This group of around 1,700 people, far from being a disorderly concentration, acts in an organized manner and carrying offensive objects, such as sticks, clubs or stones, and heads towards the fence. After approaching the fence and overcoming the first attempt to retain Moroccan security forces, the group is finally moving towards the border control security compound of the Chinese neighbourhood where, through the use of violence, they access the Moroccan customs inside using clubs, axes and other blunt objects. Civilian Guard personnel deployed on the ground covered the movement of the assailants from the national territory, rectifying their positions as the group also changed its course in the Moroccan area. In order to try to enter Spanish territory, these people who acted, as I said, in an organized way, begin to exert violence against the security doors and other elements that define the different spaces of the transit zones. Simultaneously, about a hundred people climb the outer wall of the border fence on which is the Moroccan fence, which finally collapses. Therefore, as I have already had the opportunity to express on different occasions, I would now like to reiterate that on 24 June at 8:20 a.m. the assailants managed to enter the border fence and split into two groups. The first group had as its mission to contain the Moroccan security forces using stones, sticks and other objects. To this end, some of its members climb to the roof of the border infrastructure in order to harass the Spanish forces and the Moroccans from a high position. The second group, for its part, had the task of forcing security doors through the use of axes, clubs and even radials. Finally, the assailants achieve the goal and manage to force the doors of the transit zone, a time when a funnel is formed, when hundreds of people try to overcome them at the same time. The deployment of State security forces and bodies: more than 120 Civil Guard officers on the ground, the support of a helicopter, a drone and also the presence of the National Police and the local police of Melilla, succeeds in repelling, with proportionate action, the entry into national territory of the bulk of the group, while 134 people managed to gain access to national territory and dispersed throughout the city of Melilla. In this regard, all these persons were admitted and cared for at CETI, and 133 have applied for international protection in our country, which are being processed. Around 9 a.m., Moroccan forces were able to access the roof of the border fence, a fact that ended the attacks from the high point as a step ahead of the descalation of violence in the border crossing of the Chinese neighborhood of Nador. In parallel, and with absolutely rigorous and professional action, the officers of the Civil Guard, with the support of the National Police and the local police, as I have indicated, had managed to bag against the wall of the border post all those who were trying to cross the door, which had been forced, minus the 134 who had already been able to access national territory. The above-mentioned action in which the violent crowd was confronted gradually reduced the aggressiveness of the assailants, and it is worth noting in this section the work of several of the members of the Civil Guard who dedicated themselves, as can be clearly seen in the images, to maintaining a constant dialogue until the most violent presented their course. Controlled by the situation, the Civil Guard prevented the access of these persons to national territory, in compliance with the provisions of Organic Law 4/2000 of 11 January 2000 on the rights and freedoms of foreigners in Spain and their social integration, the application of which followed the principles established by the Constitutional Court in its judgment 172/2020 and the judgement of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights also of February 2020. I would like to stress that these actions were carried out in accordance with international human rights law, as well as international protection, and confirmed the absence of particularly vulnerable persons in that group. That is, it was fully complied with the law, which, on the other hand, is what our agents of the state security forces and bodies always do. I say this because it has come to be said that the people who violently assaulted our borders did so in the face of the impossibility of seeking asylum, and it is simply false and irresponsible to accuse our public employees of these kinds of actions by the state security forces and bodies. You, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the asylum law clearly defines the areas in which to apply for asylum and also defines that the attempt to overcome a border infrastructure is not a suitable point for asking for international protection in our country, and less can be moved, as is sometimes observed - and some testimony has been heard - that to apply for asylum is feasible or justified the use of violence at a country's border. That, of course, is not justified. I do not know any country that admits a violent attack on its borders. I empathize and I can obviously empathize with the underlying causes - people's lives, wars in their countries of origin, etc. - I can empathize with everything, but that cannot justify either directly or indirectly an attack on the borders of a country, a violent attack on the borders of a country in order to exercise a hypothetical right, because Spain is a country of asylum. In Spain this year we have opened a hundred thousand international protection files. We are the third country in the European Union in absolute numbers of requests for international protection. Our country saves lives every day at sea because it is its duty. We do, and it protects the vulnerable and the non-vulnerable, it would be missing more. We do. You also saw the state security forces and bodies in the Tarajal in May 2021 doing what was right: saving lives. What a country cannot accept is a violent attack on its borders. We are not on a subject, as far as 24 June is concerned, of the exercise of the right of asylum; we are facing a violent attack on our borders, without prejudice to empathizing with the causes of origin and, I say again, always recalling the tragedy that should never have happened. Here I call for responsibility, because, as I said, messages and public statements that seek to justify violating a border infrastructure to seek international protection have three consequences, and none of them are good: firstly, they send a false message to migrants, because the asylum law does not allow it to be called in by force and by exerting violence; secondly, they put the security forces and bodies of the State at risk, as we have seen, and thirdly and most seriously, they put migrants themselves at risk - I remember the tragedy -. I therefore call for responsibility when analysing these types of entries. We must move that it is not the way to enter, and that is the responsibility of all of us, of all those responsible for politics. In no way, either directly or indirectly, should it not be expressed that violence should be excluded at any time and place. [[Applauds]] As I said, have no doubt, Spain is a host country for any asylum seeker who knocks on our doors, but can't allow anyone to try to knock them down by force. That is substantially the chronology of the events that took place on 24 June. It's the same thing I exhibited in the appearance that took place on September 21st. These are the same facts that I have explained in every public intervention. Simply and simply it is the truth of what happened, a truth that is not going to change by more appearances that you make or by more attempts that you make to manipulate what really happened based on conjectures. Madam President, these facts allow us to draw four preliminary considerations. First of all, they are events that originate in a violent attempt to make an irregular entry into our country by forcing the border perimeter. I repeat this because it has been stated, as I said before, that this group of 1,700 people, carrying offensive objects, carrying sticks, stones, radials, clubs or axes, as we have all been able to observe - although some did not want to see the images in their entirety - acted peacefully. Not only is it not true, but it does not cease to be irresponsible, for what I have said, and that does not mean that we cannot empathize with the underlying causes. In this sense, the images filmed by the various media of the Civil Guard, which have been working in their entirety since the beginning in possession of the Office of the Public Prosecutor and the Ombudsman, which were at their disposal last Friday, these images, he said, clearly show how the sticks and stones are used in an offensive way towards the Spanish and Moroccan agents. They also show without any doubt how radials, clubs or axes were used in order to strengthen the border infrastructure that separates the two countries. The presence of civilian guards on our side did not diminish that pretension to the people who were forcing the doors. These are violent acts in which, as I said, the State security forces and bodies, in particular the Civil Guard, acted more than proportionally, since the great deployment of the Civil Guard, supported by a helicopter and a drone, the support of the National Police and the presence of the local police of Melilla, achieves two very important things: firstly, to repel the irregular entry of the bulk of the group into national territory; secondly, to reduce the violent attitude of the assailants through the timely and proportionate use of the material they had at their disposal, including, as has already been said, the anti-disturbing material. This is what happened: an attack on our border perimeter from Moroccan territory. I mean, something I said and I repeat. These are events that took place primarily in Moroccan territory; events in which we have had to mourn the loss of human lives, as well as feel that fifty-five agents of the Moroccan Civil Guard and gendarmes were injured as a result of these events on 24 June, as well as, of course, damage to infrastructure, vehicles, etc. The second preliminary consideration is that, as a result of a proportionate response and, I repeat, timely in the face of a violent event, we did not have to regret, and I reiterate, we did not have to regret any tragic event, that is, no loss of human life on national territory. I repeat. I said it and I repeat it again: We are talking about tragic events that take place outside our country. There was no loss of human life on national territory. And this is because the boundaries between countries have been meridianly clear for many years. This is confirmed by the actions of the Governments of Spain and Morocco, as evidenced by international law and also ratified by the National Court in various resolutions, including judgement 4751/2008, which states that the scope of action of the Spanish Administration is confined to the scope of Spanish sovereignty. I would therefore like to make it clear that any conjecture such as those being made, speculations such as those being made or insinuations such as those being made or those that I have heard and read from some of the members of the People's Party and other groups - and I am sorry to say this - that the State Security Forces and Bodies, especially the Civil Guard, have allowed these tragic events to happen in our country without doing anything, is a grave irresponsibility. Make it clear that in the face of these kinds of allegations, on such serious accusations to the Civil Guard, I will face myself and the entire Ministry of the Interior. [[Applauds]] Irresponsible is also to say that no health care was given to migrants who needed it. There were health-care teams, obviously protected, because there was a violent assault and it could not be accessed without putting its members at risk. The proof of this is the data, not mine, but the health services that show the assistance: eleven migrants were treated in the Melilla district hospital; one person had an eye trauma and had to be operated on, remaining in the hospital for several days until discharge; another person, with a lower maxillofacial fracture, was transferred to the peninsula to be operated on from his injury; eight migrants had injuries to the lower limbs, such as bruises and injuries to the feet, knees or legs, and all of them were treated and received hospital discharge at the time, and one person, who had a head injury, was properly treated, receiving discharge at a later stage. Eleven are injured who join the more than fifty civilian guards who were injured in these incidents and who, in some cases, have had to remain on leave for up to three months as a result of the broken jaw or cheekbone. Therefore, there was no neglect or lack of assistance to migrants. Yesterday we attended the last episode of the drift of the People's Party, with statements by Mr Gonzalez Pons, in which he stated something as serious as the following - I say quotes -: 'It is very serious that people are hiding wounded and killed in national territory, that aid and care are denied to those who are dying in our country and that Moroccan gendarmes are allowed to enter Spain to take the wounded and the dead'. I close quotes. Well, before these statements, in which a high official - yes - of the People's Party accuses the Civil Guard, which was in operation, of committing several crimes of extraordinary gravity... [[Several Members: No! No! No! Mr. De Olano Vela: To you! You!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u158	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u159	... I inform the House that I have given instructions for the ministry to take charge of any defence that may be necessary in the face of a complaint to them. There was no carelessness on the part of the Civil Guard, there was no carelessness; there was serious and proportionate work. This Government cannot tolerate in any way false accusations based on conjecture and directed at public employees of State security forces and bodies without any conclusion. That is not that the Minister of the Interior is behind the forces and security bodies of the State; the Minister of the Interior stands before them and defends their action, because the forces and security bodies of the State are - Organic Law 2/1986 - those that have to protect and contain the border perimeter, but, obviously, under the order of the Minister of the Interior. [[Several Members: Nooooo!]] [[applause]] We are not hiding, this Minister of the Interior is not hiding; what cannot be done is to use neither the Civil Guard nor the forces and security forces of the State, who work and put their lives and physical integrity at risk, to try to undermine the Minister of the Interior or the Government of Spain. That's what you can't do. Finally, the last preliminary consideration has to do with the Government's response to these events. It has been based at all times on an important exercise of transparency, and they will allow me to take stock. This is the second time that this minister appears before the plenary of the House, and I am already telling you, of course, that I will do so as often as necessary and as soon as the competent bodies of the House obviously determine, because I understand that it is the right of society to know such serious facts and to know them through their representatives in the Congress of Deputies. This attendance is in addition, as I said, to the five oral questions in Congress and the Senate and to the visit that the Bureau and spokespersons of the Interior Commission made to the Command of Melilla and to the border crossing with the city of Nador, a visit where they were explained the protocols of action against assaults on the border perimeter. It also adds to the availability of all the images recorded by the drone, helicopter and fixed cameras that this ministry transferred to the Commission of the Interior so that, last Friday, its lords could fully view them with a view to preparing this appearance - eight hours of recordings, seventy-five archives - accompanied by two members of the Command of the Civil Guard of Melilla, who made themselves available to their lords at a viewing session held last Friday. This exercise of absolute and total transparency has been projected not only towards his lordships, but towards these General Courts, also through his high commissioner for the defence of fundamental rights, the Ombudsman, and towards the Attorney General's Office, which, on 28 June of this year, appointed the prosecutor of the coordinating room of Aliens as responsible for investigating what happened in the border perimeter. Both investigations have had the cooperation, as it could not be less, of the Ministry of the Interior as a whole. In this way, the two institutions have all the images that recorded what happened, the same ones that you had at your disposal to be able to see them, the whole of those that were recorded that day. In the case of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the statement has also been made to officials of the Civil Guard of Melilla who conducted the operation and to various agents who participated in it, without, of course, prejudice to all the proceedings which, as the investigating officer, the Public Prosecutor's Office agrees in connection with its investigations. When both institutions, as is normal when any kind of investigation is carried out, have required clarification, they have immediately counted on the explanations by the ministry. Madam President, this transparency has also been projected towards the media, and in this regard they will allow me to make a chronology of the times when I have made statements on this matter; statements which, in the same way as with parliamentary appearances, I will repeat the times that are necessary and precise, because this government and this minister have nothing, absolutely nothing to hide. They will allow me to provide you with details of media interventions. I have answered questions from the media on thirty-two occasions: twenty-eight were media attentions in actions, two consisted of interviews on television and two in written media. It is a transparency in which we believe, practice and observe all our actions since the 24th of June. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these were the facts of 24 June; they are the same facts that I told you in my previous appearance, and they are the same facts, simply, because there are no others, however much it bothers those who from their bias and preconceived truth would want another truth, which they want to build, but which does not exist. They are the same facts, and I repeat this: a violent attack on our border, in which we had to regret the loss of human lives and the damage suffered by fifty-five members of the Civil Guard; facts that occurred mainly outside Spanish territory, in which we did not have to regret any tragic events of a vital nature in our country, on which the Civil Guard had no responsibility and in which we have been completely transparent and collaborators within the framework of the open investigations. It is an attitude of responsibility that, unfortunately, we have not seen in some political formations, first, because when it has clearly been found that the tragedy happened in another country, we have come to see in some cases attempts to redefine international law and the exercise of sovereignty by States, twisting catastral arguments proper to the definition of the lines between individuals or tirelessly seeking any possibility of determining that the fact had occurred in Spanish territory; second, because we have seen an opposition that is said to be of state and that what has been demonstrated once again throughout its short history is that it cares very little about our institutions so as to obtain political revenues, which they have sown - and this is particularly serious in your case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - doubts about the performance of the Civil Guard, an action in which I assume all responsibility, because I give the order to protect... [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: What a barbarity!]] [[Several Members: Nooo!]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u160	Quiet, please. Mr. Manglano and Mr. Gutierrez, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u161	... Our borders from any violent attack. It was proportional action and no vital facts had to be regretted in our country. And when some of you realized that you went out of your way, casting doubts on the Civil Guard, you did not hesitate to cast doubt on the alleged lack of means, which is also obviously false, or on a negligence of the commanders, which is simply unworthy of a party that is said to be government. Yesterday, as I said before, we attended the last element, with Mr González Pons echoing conjectures, speculations and, moreover, raising himself to power; falsehoods and indignities before which he made it very clear that, every time they say them, they will have this minister, this government and its Socialist Parliamentary Group face, because the officials of the forces and security forces are public servants whose work of protecting our border and defending human rights we feel more than proud. They are public servants whom we do protect, not with empty words, but with real and tangible facts and measures, first, increasing their number: 13,000 in all of Spain - a muscle thanks to which we have been able to send reinforcements to Melilla whenever necessary - not as you did, cutting 13,000 agents from our streets, our roads and our borders. Public servants who, unlike the lies that the People's Party has spread, have means, of course many more than they had with you, and I can give you some certain data that are far removed from the lies that have been found in this House: one hundred and fifteen two-colour service vehicles, sixty-five commercial-colored vehicles, three drones, a permanent helicopter in the city of Melilla, anti-gas masks for all of them, shields both anti-balls and anti-trauma, etc.; all at your disposal to exercise their functions with all effectiveness and efficiency. They are public employees with a government that always supports their work; an extremely difficult work and thanks to which, all of us, including those who guard them, all of us, can exercise our rights and freedoms with complete security. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I expect from you a rectification of the insidiaries that you have launched on our agents and their actions, repeated - I repeat - yesterday by Mr González Pons. [[protests.-Mrs.Montesinos de Miguel: What a barbarity!]] I have come here today to reiterate the truth of what happened on 24 June, and I do so in the same spirit that has presided over all the actions of the Ministry of the Interior since that day, with readiness, objective data and total transparency, which contrasts strongly with the disappointing attitude of some of your ladies and gentlemen. This House experienced a sad episode last Friday, when two Civil Guard commanders came from Melilla to make seventy-five files available to it with eight hours of recordings, but some of their lordships were not happy to see them in their entirety; in fact, they did not see a third of them. They considered that in their particular agenda of a day's work there were matters - I understand - more important than the entire vision of videos that the Civil Guard had brought. Are you willing, ladies and gentlemen, to explain to the citizens what such important matters prevented you from carrying out the full vision of the images of this tragedy? Or did they already want to see those parts that interest them and decontextualize what really happened? [[Rumors]] I'm finishing up, President. I reiterate the Government's commitment to the three lines of work that I expressed last September: to complete the modernization of the fence and the border posts so that our perimeter is increasingly secure. More than 50 million euros have already been invested in these four years in both border posts and in the perimeter of the fence both of Ceuta and Melilla; I repeat, more than 50 million euros, and we continue to invest. Also to blame for the recovery of the troops lost in the State security forces and bodies. Finally, we must continue to promote both the policies of cooperation with countries of origin and transit, as well as those of strengthening the asylum and refuge system, where we have tripled the number of public employees in our office and incorporated new IT platforms to work rigorously, in order to define legal and safe migration routes, always with strict compliance with the law and with our international obligations. I'm on my way. With this appearance I have again offered explanations about the events that took place in Nador. [[Rumors]] Events which, unfortunately, have led to the loss of human and wounded lives between the security forces of Spain and Morocco and which have their origin in an intolerable and violent attempt at aggression on the Spanish border. He called again to his responsibility that, regardless of empathizing with the reasons underlying each of these people, they say that the exercise of violence towards a border and the exercise of violence at risk to themselves and to the security forces and bodies of the State is not the way to exercise any right. That is the reality of what I presented to you in September, which your ladies and gentlemen who attended Melilla and what they might have seen in the images if they had seen them in their entirety; a reality on which the Government has been and will continue to be fully responsible, completely transparent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Firstly, for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of the Interior, today you should not come here to defend your lie. The lie in democracy is unacceptable, and today its presence here is unacceptable and indecent. [[Applauds]] You don't come to Congress today because you're the most transparent, but because you're the most liar. We forced him. You are forced, you come crawling, dragged by society, dragged by the media, dragged by all those who defend the truth, by all Spaniards who will not allow their lie to be imposed on the truth. The request of the PP, approved in Junta and Spokesmen, for the urgent appearance of the Minister of the Interior before the plenary of the House included - and I read textually - the visualization of all the security cameras of the perimeter of the border of Melilla with Morocco during the hours in which the factual events took place, and so the President has read. It is very serious that he evaded his obligation to bring the images. You, Mr. Marlaska, are a coward. [[Protests]] You were the one who had to come to explain the content of the videos, because that was approved by the Spokesman's Board. [[Applauds]] If I had dignity, I wouldn't shield a civilian guard to come to Congress. [[Applauds]] Leave the Civil Guard alone. You're in charge of politics. You're the only one responsible for lying to the Spaniards. You're a lie. His performance is miserable: to bring here a civilian guard to subject him to the control of his partners in Bildu and Esquerra, and you as long as you are. In 2014 the political leaders came to explain the videos of the Tarajal tragedy at an open door, and you bring a civilian guard and a closed door for no one to see their lies. You, Mr. Marlaska, do not protect the Civil Guard; you shelter yourself in the Civil Guard. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] If they were supported, after the attempt of five massive jumps in the year 2022, he would have given them more means, and he did not. This violent avalanche was not an isolated fact, as attacks like the fence had been taking place for months, and he did nothing, leaving them alone. Your parliamentary partners attack the performance of the Civil Guard and you stand behind it. Both responses are equally harmful to the professional work that the Civil Guard is doing, which nothing can do in the face of the disprotection and dismantling to which you are subjecting yourself at the southern border. It would have been like 2,000 immigrants or 200. They were alone, unprotected and without resources to deal with a situation that was not the first time. Fifty-five civilian guards wounded from a device of one hundred officers, which is why he should have resigned that same day. [[Applauds]] Don't take the Spaniards for fools, don't keep crawling around with their lies. All parliamentary groups, except the PSOE, after the visit to Melilla and the viewing of images, say you are lying. All the parliamentary groups, so unanimous against their lie. After the visit and eye inspection in Melilla and the viewing of images, we observe that every paragraph of his appearance in September is a lie. Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said that about five o'clock in the morning the Moroccan security forces alerted the Civil Guard of possible avalanche? Page 40 of the Journal of Sessions: And now we know that there was no such early warning and that the first contact of the Civil Guard with Moroccan forces was at 8:53, and that it is the civilian guards themselves who at 5:48 see movements and deployment on the Moroccan side without anyone alerting them. Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said that no one's land breaks two doors from Morocco? Now, instead of no one's land, he calls it a transit zone. To know what he'll call him tomorrow. And now we know that the doors that were broken at 8:42 and 8:44 are Spanish, where hundreds of people were trapped. [[showing a photograph]] Look at her, we were there all the Members of the Committee on the Interior. Moreover, the Civil Guard recognized us that they had to repair them and that until five o'clock in the afternoon the Spanish doors where the avalanche occurred were not operational. Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said in the Senate: the great deployment of security forces and bodies made up of more than 150 agents? And now we know that at the beginning there were only five officers, who had to withdraw and leave the border fence; that in total there were twelve officers who were in area A57; that they had to resort to the officers of offices, of prosecutors, even all those who had left the night shift had to stay, and in total, between local, national police and all that was in Melilla, reached 120 agents, and they confirmed it to us. Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said that only a hundred immigrants had entered Spain and now we know that there were more than six hundred? Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said that only 103 immigrants had been rejected at the border and now we know that 470 were rejected? Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards, to the Prosecutor's Office, to the Ombudsman and to Congress when you said that there were only six and a half hours of recording and now we know that, according to you, there are eight hours and that you are hiding an hour and a half, which coincidentally corresponds to the performance of Morocco in the Spanish courtyard, and you want to entertain us with two fixed cameras, one recording the descent of Mount Gurugu and the other the roofs of the Chinese neighborhood? What did you want us to look at for two hours, Mr. Marlaska, if a little bird passed? [[Applauds]] Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said that there were no fatalities in Spain and now we know that at least one immigrant died in Spanish territory? Mr. Marlaska, look at this photo, published by El Español, by Mr. Enrique Santiago and I, and where the bodies were and where the Moroccan police were. [[showing a photograph]] The same fences, the Spanish towers and the glass of Morocco. Here we were, Mr. Marlaska, and this was Spain. [[Applauds]] Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said repeatedly - and I read the Diario de Sesiones textually, page 63-: I say this because you might think that the facts that we discussed have happened in Spanish territory, you might think that we have to regret human losses in Spanish territory? Three falsehoods. And now we know that it was in Spanish territory, because at 8:43:49 we saw in the videos already the bodies piled up after the avalanche in Spanish territory. Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said you were working with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ombudsman and now we know that they are demanding videos and material that you did not bring? Read the Ombudsman's report. [[Show report]] Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said that you did not know what had happened until days later when we now know that the government delegate was from minute one to minute aware of the operations and at 1300 hours of the same day you already knew that there were deceased immigrants? Are you aware that you lied to the Spaniards when you said - and I read the Journal of Sessions textually, page 67-: And you tell me about Moroccan police in Spain. That's what happened. They don't act, but it's just that it's a fact, it's a fact. Are they simply entrances for the purposes of infrastructure, do they not act in Spanish sovereignty territory in that sense? And now we know that not only did the gendarmes act, but up to four different Moroccan bodies: the gendarmes, the Moroccan police, the auxiliary forces and the army itself. On Friday, in the videos, we have seen how at 8:45 a.m. the Moroccan police are already seen behind the immigrants in the Spanish area where the avalanche takes place. Starting at nine o'clock in the morning different Moroccan agents already occupy the roof of the Spanish border crossing and from 9:30 am until 11:15 am they are already proceeding to the rejections from Melilla. Yeah, everybody's acting in Spain. And after the report of the International Media Consortium, today we already know that even the Moroccan police took wounded and killed from Spain to Morocco. The Civil Guard itself acknowledged that it was Morocco that cleared the entire Spanish border crossing and that they did not access the Spanish courtyard until 1300 hours, when everything was already clear. Are you aware that from the very first moment you tried to hide the truth with your dirty maneuvers, as you continue to do here today, concealing the most deadly incident on the Spanish border, with twenty-three dead and seventy-seven missing? Today, because of its fault, the defence of human rights in Spain is in question, no longer only at the national level, but also at the international level. Today the evidence is that Minister Marlaska goes naked as long as his palm trees tell him he's dressed. The tissues of excuses and lies do not cover the truth that refuses to recognize: dead and disappeared in Spanish territory. Yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, under this Spanish flag that we were on. [[showing a photograph]] [[Applauds]] Moreover, today in the SER you can see how far Spain gets. [[showing a photograph]] If they continue like this, they will do what they want and the Socialist Party, in order to have no problems, will give Ceuta and Melilla Africa, because they are increasingly narrowing the perimeter of the border. [[Applauds]] Mr. Marlaska, don't stay involved in the lie and leave. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: All right!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u164	You will agree with me, Mrs Vázquez, that this House does not deserve personal insults to any member of this House or to any Minister of the Government of Spain. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] I ask you, please, not to touch on that terminology and I ask the rest of you to do so. [[Rumors and Protests]] Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. The facts that we were able to see both in Melilla and through the explanations of the lieutenant colonel of the Civil Guard and from the vision of the different videos are as follows: on 24 June there is a violent assault on the border of Spain, the southern border of Europe, perfectly coordinated, massive and disproportionate to the number of our agents and provided in their response. First, an assault is not a legal entry, it is not an entry allowed by a border crossing enabled for this purpose. Therefore, those who stress the need for attention to possible asylum applications are once again carrying out an obvious so-called effect which says that any border can be assaulted by any point violently and that this gives them all kinds of rights. Second, it was a violent assault. It was noted that once again, and it is not the first, Minister - I myself in this rostrum presented to your ladies and gentlemen the forks, before whom Members of your own party exclaimed: how you are allowed to enter this Chamber with weapons!-, axes, electric radials, forks, sticks with sharp tips of iron and clubs, all kinds of blunt material were used. And he was violent also in the result: fifty-five officers wounded, with bruises, with breaks, and one of them was unconscious. Third, it was a perfectly coordinated violent assault. The image we have seen on other occasions. It gives the impression that they had been instructed by military units. Perfectly coordinated the advance, changing successively the place of attack or assault, some directing the assault; others harassing the agents, throwing stones, throwing sticks, on other occasions living lime; others proceeding to the opening of the holes with radials, and while some covered the front, others working at the entrance; and others proceeding to the massive entrance, to the assault, with the aim of reaching our territory. In addition to coordinating, the assault was absolutely massive. It's not random. It is no coincidence that 2500 assailants decide to come one day at the same time and at the same point. It is therefore an assault with a numerical superiority which they know perfectly well and which gives them a clear advantage over the security forces and bodies of the State, which have the duty, obligation and responsibility to ensure the security of all Spaniards and therefore to ensure our borders. And fifth, it was an absolutely disproportionate attack on the number because, as I say, compared to the 2500 assailants, on the other side at the best of times - adding to the Civil Guard, the National Police and the local police- there were 120 officers. There were moments when we could appreciate - in particular, when they were breaking one of the doors - as on one side - on the side of Morocco - there were about 1500 assailants and on the Spanish side only twelve brave agents of the Civil Guard. And we defend the response of our agents once again, as we have already had to defend in this very rostrum by referring to other assaults on our border and, therefore, assaults on our national sovereignty, as we also had to defend from this rostrum their response to other assaults and attacks on our national sovereignty, as was the coup d'état in Catalonia in 2017, where our agents also had to suffer that violence and that disproportionate number. [[Applauds]] Mr Minister, what you cannot say as Minister of the Interior is what you have just said, that there were more than 120 agents, and boasting about it. I say there were only 120 agents in front of a brutal avalanche of 2500 violent assailants. What you can't say, as you just said, was that there was an important deployment because there were drones, a helicopter, that had to leave the service to go refuel because there was no other one to support it, and only 120 agents at best. One of the great lies that you have given to those who hate Spain - the separatists, the thugs, the friends of the terrorists - is that they can go on saying that they had died in our territory. I'm going to tell you something that no one in this House has told you and that they probably won't tell you: What if there were them, what? Is it that those of us who suffer an assault are responsible for themselves in that assault who die violent people, whether our agents for saving their lives make legitimate use of force? [[Applauds]] In this case there were no dead, but believe me, minister, if there were no dead, it was a miracle. It was a miracle because, in the face of a totally brutal avalanche, they could have been killed in Spanish territory. But here the dead - those who appeared dead -, in this case yes, were very alive and we could see in the images - I will tell your lordships that they did not have the opportunity to see and all the Spaniards - how some of those dead resurrected. They had violently jumped the border and our agents tried to remove them from the accumulation of assailants. By passing out, they were placed on one side of the road so that the health services could come and - oh, surprise! - we all saw in the cameras how the slightest carelessness of our agents got up and ran out to CETI. Those are the dead we had in our territory. To all those who have accused our state security forces and forces, I would like to hear them claim dead, demand and denounce police violence and negligence against Morocco, not our Civil Guard or our National Police. [[Applauds]] The result, Minister, is that abandonment which you have been subjected to at the border with Spain, because you tell me that there were 120 agents when, as we have seen on the Moroccan side, there should probably be between 500 and 600 agents. Minister, in an assault of 2500 illegal immigrants, our forces and state security forces can say very loudly that they managed to get only six hundred to jump into Spanish territory, and managed to return - reject - to 470. Thus, of the 2500 only 130 managed to enter the territory and - creanos - if the Government were not theirs and ours, of those 130 there was not one left right now in Spanish territory. [[Applauds]] Minister, I would like to end with two questions. The first one of justice, congratulating the forces and security forces of the State, the Civil Guard, the National Police and the local police of Melilla for their professionalism, for their loyalty to Spain, for their courage. And I want to say to you, Minister, that you are not worthy of the magnificent agents we have in Spain. That's why you must resign. And you must resign because you have abandoned them, not because of the slanders that the coup groups, terrorists and flounders pour against you and your Government, but because you have abandoned our agents on the border with Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u166	Mr Ortega, in this Parliament, in this House, there are parliamentary groups, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, all legitimate and therefore there are no parliamentary groups, neither coups nor terrorists. [[Protests.-Applause.]] And I ask you, please, not to use that terminology. [[Applauds]] Mr Santiago Romero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Spanish border there was the death on 24 June of at least twenty-three people, desperate people - not criminals - who escaped poverty because of the lack of rights and freedoms in their countries. And it's a very serious fact, it's a unfortunate event, but we also have to take responsibility for what happened, transfer our solidarity and respect to the victims and their families and take the following steps so that it never happens again. Because what has happened shows that neither Spanish nor European Union legislation has effective mechanisms to ensure that a person in a situation of persecution or denial of rights can safely reach the border to seek asylum or international protection. The European Union is also responsible for what has happened and must take steps not to repeat it, by increasing coordination between countries to ensure the international protection that we are obliged to provide to all members of the Union. It is a good thing that the European Commissioner for the Interior, Mrs Johansson, declared on 4 July that it is unacceptable for people to die this way on our border, but then the Commissioner has to take steps to ensure that this does not happen again on any border of the European Union, so that the countries with which the European Union reaches agreements to control the migratory flows that reach Europe respect the human rights of these people and fulfil the obligations of international law, because large amounts of money are allocated to countries in transit to prevent people from reaching the European border, but then we look elsewhere when these countries do not guarantee human rights. Morocco is one of the biggest beneficiaries of this money and, according to the humanitarian organizations of that country and the images we have seen, in too many cases the authorities fail to observe their human rights obligations, as happened on 24 June: hundreds of inert, wounded, dead, piled up for hours on the ground, at high temperatures, without receiving any medical or humanitarian assistance and without being transferred to safe places. The Council of the Union is awaiting approval of the European resettlement framework, which establishes a mechanism for the transfer of vulnerable persons from conflict or humanitarian emergency areas. Potential migrant asylum-seekers must be guaranteed the possibility of submitting their applications for asylum in a dignified manner, because this is provided for in the temporary protection directive, which is in force: immediate and temporary protection for persons who cannot return to their countries, especially for reasons of war, violence or human rights violations, exactly what has been done with Ukrainian refugees. And there are tools to be able to welcome decently if there is political will, although the truth is that they have never been activated when it comes to crises in sub-Saharan countries, in the case of black-skinned people. But the countries of the European Union do not always fulfil these obligations. In 2009 the current law on asylum in Spain was adopted, and yet, two governments of the People's Party through, we have not been able to comply with its article 38, which says that asylum applications can be submitted to embassies and consulates because the development regulations that determine the conditions of access of asylum seekers to these diplomatic offices have not yet been adopted. No one will play his or her life by jumping a fence or abruptly crossing a border post if he or she can apply for protection in a normal way when he or she can access to seek protection from a Spanish diplomatic office in Morocco or at the border asylum offices. But that is not possible today, so that only by complying with the law will attempts to enter irregularly into national territory be stopped. There are no effective legal channels for applying for asylum at the border. There has been no asylum application at the border since the adoption of the asylum law in 2009. In the asylum offices at the borders of Ceuta and Melilla, since they opened, requests have been processed from persons who had already entered national territory, in all cases through irregular entry, because they had no other possibility of doing so. Let's make the legal reforms so that no one has to jump a fence, because the people who last day 24 tried to cross the border post of the Chinese neighborhood came mostly from three countries in which there is deprivation of rights and freedoms due to humanitarian crises. There is a reasonable presumption that nationals of South Sudan and Chad deserve international protection, including asylum status. Most of the people who tried to cross the border came from these countries and presumably also those who died in the attempt. When these people are already in Spain and apply for asylum, in 85% of cases their applications are admitted and in most cases they are granted international protection. The explanations given by the commanders of the Civil Guard in Melilla to the Congressional Committee on the Interior, the images displayed in the parliamentary seat in the same Commission and the images displayed yesterday by the newspaper El País show that, by breaking the door of the border post of the Chinese neighborhood, there was an avalanche on Spanish soil in areas under the control of the Spanish authorities and that these people could not back down either due to pressure from the Moroccan police with anti-disturbing materials. In this avalanche there were injuries and injuries among the people who were caught and, so we were able to see in the minute 11:43 of the video published yesterday by the newspaper El País, and presumably recorded and filtered by the Moroccan police, at least one died in Spanish border units. According to the Civil Guard, there was no presence of Spanish security forces at that border post at the time of the avalanche, nor was there until a few hours later, and of the videos displayed and of the explanations given also by the Civil Guard it is clear that there were Moroccan security forces both outside and inside the Spanish border facility. It is therefore appropriate to request a thorough examination of how people who were caught up in the avalanche were treated. In the videos taken by the Civil Guard, and exhibited in this Congress, it is not appreciated how people who were left on the floor of the Spanish border building after the avalanche or in what state these people were in, but the images released yesterday by El País clearly show that people were allegedly injured on Spanish soil, and they see a person who seems to have died. The Moroccan public force is seen moving bodies from inside the Spanish border facilities and, according to the Civil Guard, there were no bodies in the Spanish border facilities when they re-entered it. It is also not known to date that Morocco has reported the exact number of victims or their identification, as indicated by Moroccan human rights associations. Cross-border collaboration should make it possible to know the exact number of victims, the injured and the deceased and to shed any doubt as to whether there are missing persons, which is a possibility that these same organizations have denounced, because black lives also matter to us. We ask the Spanish authorities to investigate to obtain the exact number and name of all the victims, to clarify the causes of the deaths, to be able to inform their families of what happened and the whereabouts of their loved ones. Any action at the border should guarantee health care to persons who are injured in acts such as the one experienced on the 24th. Ambulances were near the scene, in Spain and Morocco, but the obligation to rescue injured or deceased persons who did not enter Spain was omitted, despite the fact that we have seen people piled up on the ground for hours. If they'd been taken care of, there'd probably be fewer victims. A clear protocol is needed to avoid this situation. It is clear that 470 people had crossed the border when they were returned to Morocco, without considering the legal provisions, both national and international - literally - as the Ombudsman has said. And indeed, the Constitutional Court has stated that rejection at the border is possible and legal, but it must also be done with a number of guarantees. That is to say, effective judicial protection must be guaranteed, the right to defence must be guaranteed, the attention of a translator must be guaranteed, adequate remedies must be guaranteed, so that no one is in a state of defence. The facts for us are clear, as clear as when the People's Party saw normal shooting of people trying to swim on the Spanish beaches. There's no effect called,...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u168	Mr. Santiago, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u169	... does not exist; what exists is the effect of persecution in too many places in the world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u170	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u171	Thank you very much, President. Mr Marlaska, you continue to be a minister because the dead are black and poor; if those people had been white, you would not be a minister today, I am absolutely convinced of this, absolutely. [[Applauds]] And another thing for everyone here, in this House: the enemy comes on a yacht and it's the one who puts the fences and the borders, does not come on foot and does not jump them. Justice and reparation for victims? Self-criticism? None. But there's cynicism and there's lies. Cinism and lies when you say that the means of repression were ideal, because the truth is that people were killed piled up between cocks, rubber balls and gases. Kinism and lies when you say that in the fence you cannot ask for asylum, because the Ombudsman himself warns that you cannot ask for asylum either in Melilla, in the consulate, or in the Moroccan embassy, and the European Commissioner for Human Rights herself blames Spain for giving no other way than to jump the fence or swim to those who need to apply for asylum in Melilla. But there is also cynicism and lies when you say that there were no beatings of the Civil Guard to the migrants, because the servant and the entire Interior Commission saw last week in their videos how an immigrant falls to the ground and a civilian guard gives him four strokes and comes another civilian guard and gives him another stroke. Kinism and lies when you say that there was no death in Spanish territory, because we have seen dozens of immigrants crushed within the Spanish border in your images; I was there and I stepped on that border, and other deputies too. We were in the exact place; we were there and in the Interior Commission, and the media images yesterday confirm that there was death there. There is also cynicism and lies when you deny border maps of the very Spanish cadastre, because, for example, the photojournalist José Palazón, who has been denouncing violations at the borders all his life and explaining the delimitation of this border, last week sent me - I don't know if it looks here - the plans, which are on the government's website, which fully guarantee that the Spanish Chinese neighborhood and Moroccan are completely inside the Spanish soil and belong to the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, former Fomento. Kinism also when you say that you did not turn the two cameras in the fence of the Chinese neighborhood because you thought it was better to activate the third - my question last week, on Friday, to the Civil Guard - when you could have recorded the crushed migrant people receiving tear gas bombs and beatings from Moroccan forces inside Spanish territory. Why didn't you do it, Minister, why didn't you turn those two cameras? We think it is surreal that all the images of the helicopter, the drone, the three fixed cameras at the Melilla border crossing have failed to record what the media taught us yesterday. But also, Minister, there is the certainty of the impunity that you have, and we think it is the result of impunity for the murders of the Tarajal; it comes from there. Also, the certainty of impunity that you have is the result of paying Morocco to stop immigration, do all kinds of violence, even kill. That certainty of the impunity you have also arises from having handed over Western Sahara on a platter to Morocco. Minister, there are many of us who say the same: UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Ombudsman, Amnesty International, the media around the world, various NGOs, social entities and even citizens in general. You lied to us and you omitted us, Minister. But you did not have the fragmented trace of digital clues; you did not have data from journalists on site, such as José Palazón, Javier Bernardo, Jairo Vargas; you also did not have an investigation made by journalists from El País with Lighthouse Reports, Le Monde, Der Spiegel and a media independent of Morocco, who have brought new revelations about the massacre, in which at least twenty-three people died and, I look at the data because it is very important, there are at least seventy-six missing persons, whose families are desperate. Those journalists have done the work that the Government, its ministry, and they have not done: to investigate the facts and to take action on deaths and missing persons. It is the duty of the State to do so, and you know it. There are international treaties that you are failing to comply with right now. My group believes that it is absolutely essential to undo from here, from this rostrum, the lying and racist narrative that has been created since institutionality and that goes in the same direction as the narrative of the far right, and I say a few points. First, what precipitated the jump from the fence? Basically, the armed attacks of the Moroccan Police a day earlier in the Moroccan forests, where people were hiding. Second, people entered the Chinese neighbourhood border post to force the door into Spain while the police of both countries threw tear gas, rubber bullets and other types of anti-disturbing material at them. Third, when the migrants fell, they could no longer rise, they did not rise, the Moroccan forces came upon them while beating them in a cruel way. Some people died, especially those who were crushed - this we did see in the video - and it is that for more than twenty minutes, Minister, the agents surrounded the post and threw tear gas inside it, despite the fact that, obviously, international protocols - I return to that - do not recommend it. Fourth, dozens of people crushed on the Spanish side and on the Moroccan side screaming, asking for help. Some were able to reach Melilla by saving themselves from being crushed while others were trying to help unsuccessfully those who were injured. Fifth, a soldier hit a migrant in the back of the neck - in the back - while he was on the floor, and when he couldn't breathe another soldier jumped over his chest. Then they realized he was dead and they covered for him. Violence was selective, Minister. And those who weren't injured were tortured, left no one without injuries, no one. At the fall gate on the Spanish side - we were there the deputies - there were more injured and people fainted, and the Moroccans shot them rubber balls. To all this, the Civil Guard was handcuffed, returning people hot from Spain to Morocco. And yes, Minister, yes, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, there was death in Spanish territory; Moroccan agents recorded while dragging the victims point out that there was at least one death on Spanish soil. Sixthly, there was no medical assistance either on the Spanish side or on the Moroccan side. The Moroccans went on buses to those people like animals, to those people who were injured - even people who died inside the buses - to get them away from the borders. And first of all, he asked you, Mr Marlaska: what makes you different from the PP and the ultra-right? He also asked the President of the Government, who is not here. How do they differ? I tell you: in which you promised to be a left-wing government. In you, Mr Marlaska, there were many people who have put forward a hope of change, and I believe, I know a lot of people, but, as we have already warned - we already knew - you are as left-wing as you are center-wing VOCs. [[Applauds]] Answer me, Minister - or Mr President, who is not here - is it progressive to treat people at borders like this? We want justice, reparation, guarantees of non-repetition and a commission of inquiry in this house. And I end by telling you, Minister and all the lords of this house, that such a minister cannot follow any more day. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u173	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. It has been just over five months since the events of the Chinese neighborhood in Melilla, five months since its president said: mission accomplished successfully. And he finally shows up again. [[The Lord]] I thought it would clarify something to us and answer our questions, but it has not, for the time being it is confirmed that it has not clarified anything to us. I hope maybe in the replica I can do it. On Friday we saw the official images, which we believe should be made public, and we have also seen other images, but we need more credible and truthful explanations. In the answers to the many written questions and questions that we have raised and that you have mentioned, we refer to your appearances with some brief additions. I mean, they don't answer. Mr Minister, is it not surprising that the various parliamentary groups have such an interest in clarifying what happened on 24 June? The same applies to the Ombudsman, the Office of the Public Prosecutor, the United Nations Rapporteur on the Rights of Migrants, NGOs, researchers and citizens. Doesn't this make you think? I say it will be for some reason that we all ask for clarification, and I assure you that it is not for a persecutory mania that we have him. Maybe it's because there's nothing clear about what happened. Maybe it's because we're talking about respect for human rights. Perhaps it was because people died whose only crime was to seek a better future in another country, having been forced to abandon theirs for many reasons. Minister, I don't know what images you have seen of the facts of June 24th, but they are either other than those to which I have had access, and then tell me, please, what they are, or you don't interpret them correctly, according to my opinion. Because its version differs from that of independent observers, such as the Human Rights Commission of the Council of Europe, which, for example, asks Spain, inter alia, to clarify responsibility for human rights violations, as well as not to contribute directly or indirectly to human rights violations in migration cooperation with Morocco. Denying reality, Minister, is not the same as not having happened. By much repeating that the facts are in one way, they do not change. This may be his practice. You repeat to the satisfaction that Spain is a democratic and rule-of-law state and very progressive, but no. Things are what they are and the facts are what they are: not to appear in the European Parliament, not to clarify anything when it appears, not to answer questions and not to want committees of inquiry, and neither did it meet with the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe last week. Is this the solution? From our point of view, this is hiding the head under the wing. There are many doubts and one refers to the determination of the territory where the most terrible events took place. Was it in Morocco, was it in Spain or was it in the so-called land of nobody, transit zone, that apparent legal limbo built in Spanish territory, property of Spain and area of action of Morocco? And here is a paragraph, I find it curious that Spain let forces from another country control part of its territory; but it is its country. In the face of these doubts, I propose an exercise of two assumptions. Suppose that it is true what you maintain - although yesterday in the media we already had confirmation that it is not so - and suppose that the facts did not happen in Spanish territory or under Spanish control. Did they not care that in Morocco or in the transit area there were injuries, deaths, overcrowding, lack of medical assistance, inhuman and degrading treatment; ultimately, human rights violations? How high are relations with a country that have seen human rights violations directly? Does your Government weigh more all interests than respect for the obligations of international law relating to human rights? We have already seen that a violation of international law is the change in its position on the right of self-determination of the Sahara, here we do have evidence that they violate international law. Do the agreements concluded with Morocco in its new era of relations include the repression and violation of human rights? You have said that Morocco assumes that the dead were in Morocco, do you not worry a partner who has this concept so low of respect for human rights? And with regard to previous jumps, there seems to have been a significant change in the attitude of Moroccan forces. Is this an example of new relationships? Frankly, it seemed to me that it was better for respect for human rights that relations with Morocco were broken. The second assumption I put to you is that what you claim was not true and, therefore, the various investigations that are emerging were right; that is, that the facts did happen in Spain, in the area under Spanish control or in the framework of the door that fell down. Why are they hiding it? Why are they lying? Why don't you take on your responsibilities? You said in your appearance in September that the facts only very tangentially occurred in Spain, your responsibility over that tangential part what is it? The tangential part is the door frame? Not obstinate, regardless of which territory human rights were violated, regardless of which of the two assumptions I have raised is true, how can a State that consents to such violations, that manages and manages these facts as it does, continue to call itself a democratic and legal state? Seeing how they act, it seems that the cost of violating international treaties is low, which personally saddens me. Another point of conflict: hot rejection or expulsion. The change of name does not mean that the thing is different. His Government had used us to using euphemisms not to call things by their name, it must seem to them that it also changed them, but it did not. You have said that people must do the procedures to apply for international protection in the posts they are authorized, but these posts are closed, they are not operational, they do not work. What is the solution then? Have they already adopted solutions, as indicated by the Ombudsman? Even the Human Rights Commission of the Council of Europe has said that effective access to asylum is necessary and that access only by swimming - I repeat the words of the police - or by jumping the fence does not proceed, and that has been said by criticising the returns - what you call rejection - of 470 people, although in September you told us that they were not this number, but that they were much less. Some returns that the Civil Guard proudly told us, and we saw the images, which had been made in a coordinated way with Morocco. Are Spain and Morocco coordinated to violate international law obligations? Why are they not coordinated to ensure respect for human rights? Are you sure there were no minors? How did they determine age if they simply counted those people? You said that you confirmed the absence of particularly vulnerable people, how did you find out? At the border post was the National Police, which is responsible for the proceedings for the application for international protection. Why didn't the National Police act? What was he there for if not? We were told that the Civil Guard limited itself to telling the people he was returning, with a number of those people? And where's your identity, doesn't matter? Maybe it was because, if you identify them, you have to process their file. It's better that they're just a number? Those - minimum 470- people you said were repelled, but they were in Spanish territory, they were on the road, they were outside the border perimeter. Those persons were, therefore, in Spain and Spain must respect international human rights and international protection law. If it does not, Spain violates international law and are obligations it has freely assumed, and you know it. If you do not want to do so, it is very simple: denounce international treaties. I have already told you this on numerous occasions. And remember that, once they are in Spanish territory, people have the same level of human rights protection, no matter how they have accessed the territory or how they have crossed the border. And this was done in coordination with Spain, entering Moroccan agents to get the people out of Spain and take them back to Morocco. International law - you know - prohibits expulsions or returns to unsafe countries. Did Spain consider Morocco to be a safe country before these events? Does Spain now consider Morocco to be a safe country after these events? You said that the 133 people who were not rejected and entered CETI applied for international protection. This fact, which all requested international protection, does it not give rise to any doubt that all of them - also the rest of those who were rejected -, many of them or even only one of those who were returned hotly will also be able to request international protection, which could also have that right? You have said that Spain saves lives at sea, and I ask you: how many landings have you authorized in addition to the Aquarius, which you authorized in August 2018? A lot more? I don't think so. Perhaps it is true that Spain saves lives in the sea-poca, from my point of view - but on land? What lives save Spain on land, if we look at these facts of June 24th? I leave the rest of the items I have pending for the reply, if you answer anything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u174	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u175	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen; good afternoon, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words from this rostrum to assume and to be in line with a recognition of the men and women of our Civil Guard, who set an example of how a fair and proportionate performance should be done to the attack they suffered. I would like to thank Lieutenant Colonel Ortega, who came to show us these images the other day to the Committee on the Interior, for his efforts to synthesize all those hours of recording and also for explaining to us, of course, how it happened and what was the performance of the units of the security forces and bodies present there. I believe that all Spaniards, if they saw them, Minister, would be proud of our state security forces and bodies. And they would deserve to see all the Spaniards because it is an excellent performance, and I think that very few bodies and state security forces in other countries could do such a demanding performance with as much capacity as the one demonstrated by the small - small, minister - agents of the Civil Guard, one hundred agents, who were then supported by just over twenty national police officers. But this is the only reality and the only truth that you have told, that the attack on the border was a violent attack, which occurred with extreme violence, as I think we have all seen. But just as we have all seen that extreme violence, Minister, we have all known and understood how you lied to us in your statements on 21 September. Today you have come here challenging, proud, proud, as you are, how you traditionally behave in this rostrum, but also lying, as you also behave traditionally in this rostrum. What happens is that on 21 September we could have the intuition that he was cheating on us, but after seeing the images we do not have the intuition, we are certain, Minister, that you deceived this House and therefore all the Spaniards. And I say this not only to myself, but also to the rest of the parliamentary groups. So far that I have intervened, everyone has said the same thing to you: that you have deceived us. I think when you see that everyone's in contradiction, maybe you have to think that the wrong one is one. I know it's not your case, that you're going to keep this; we'll have to wonder why. Mr Minister, I had brought the Diario de Sesiones on 21 September, but you have repeated exactly the same thing again, with which I do not need to insist much on the lies that you told us here on 21 September because you repeated them today point by point. I was hoping that you would be a little bit lurking; I am not saying that you would contradict yourself, but at least that you would be a little lurking about what you told us on 21 September. Not only does it not matify anything, but it also repeats it itself and, I insist, in a challenging and proud way, and I believe that here the only pride you can boast of is that of the men and women who were facing up to that day for safeguarding Spanish sovereignty and protecting the Spanish border, as was evidently their obligation. Of course, we are grateful to all good Spaniards. Minister, once we have found that you have lied and that we have seen it in the images, I would like to know why you have lied. And let's talk about Marlaska's lies. Marlaska's first lie is in relation to the avalanche that occurs at the gates: it is in doors that delimit the Spanish border. Therefore, the side to which the doors fall is part of Spain, Minister, and the people who are trapped, in very harsh images, up to three rows of people trapped and people passing over them, are in Spanish territory. It pains me to say that it is in Spanish territory, but it is the reality, and trying to hide it, Minister, speaks only of the need for you to explain why you deceive us, because I do not understand it. Those security doors are so ours that when the rejection ends, at one and a half in the afternoon, Spanish maintenance companies arrive to put the doors back on their site and repair them, and that does, I say, a Spanish contract, contracts under the Spanish government and also protected by the Civil Guard, and leaves the situation again equal to five and a half in the afternoon. Therefore, these people are trapped in Spanish territory, minister, why do you tell us not? What I can't guarantee is that there would have been some dead, because obviously in the images you can't appreciate, but it's hard to think that under three piles of people and with people passing over there there wouldn't have been any seriously injured. These people are withdrawn - you can see in the images - by the Moroccan Gendarmerie. We are again fooled because that is Spanish territory and withdrawn by the Moroccan Gendarmerie. Minister, you tell us that 600 people are admitted, that 135 people are finally able to enter Spain and that some 470 people are rejected. Those 470 people and 135 who manage to enter Spain are seen in Spanish territory. Why then do you tell us, in your appearance on the 21st, that the Civil Guard, with the support of the National Police - and I am quoting your statements - blocks the entry of most people into Spanish territory? How are you going to block them if you tie them up, obviously in Spanish territory, thanks also to a removal of the road - that is the road of the perimeter of Melilla - if they are held there? Of course, it is their obligation and what needs to be done, but they are in Spanish territory, then they do jump to Spanish territory. You also tell us that the forces of the Moroccan Gendarmerie do not enter Spain. But if you see the Civil Guard open the lock of the door and allow them to go up to the roof from which they were harassing the Spanish forces and security forces! Moreover, it seems to me normal and correct, because these people - whether 1700, 2000 or 2500, the figure is difficult to value because they do not know for sure, and I think that is the least - not only assault the Spanish border, but also assault the Moroccan border; they are people who try to attack a border establishment. It is therefore normal for State security forces and bodies to cooperate when they are attacked, when their security is threatened on both sides of the border. The border is an administrative space that divides two countries. Therefore, it is normal for there to be security forces and bodies on each side. They are usually to watch each other, but if both are attacked by a third party it is normal for them to cooperate. Why do you strive to deny cooperation? If it is good, if it is normal, if what the two neighbouring countries have to do is cooperate together. Do not deny it and say here that it is a lie that there was no Moroccan gendarmerie on Spanish territory. Of course there was! And there's nothing wrong with saying it. But if any good Spanish will understand, Minister. Why do you insist on continuing to deny reality? If it seems good to me that they cooperate, the same as when rejection occurs. When the rejection occurs, the Moroccan gendarmerie enters Spanish territory to pick up the migrants and take them to the other side, of course, and it is seen. Then he cheats on us again. And I wonder, really, why do you have to fool us all the time, Minister? Because, no matter how much you do, don't think we're done getting used to being fooled. It's just that we want a minister who doesn't cheat on the Spaniards. We want a minister who won't deceive us, Mr Marlaska. Do you want to know what I think of why you lied to us? First, to hide the lack of means and staff you have in the city of Melilla. To hide it, because, if you tell the reality that we have seen, we realize that 63 people who were the ones who were the staff of the Civil Guard initially in the event had to be reinforced then until they reached the number of 100 by administrative units and other units that were not there. There were 63 people, and even some of them had just left office and had to stay there, and they are not enough for this, Minister. So you hide the lack of personnel. Secondly, the lack of means, because they are seen not to have sufficient means to reject a mob like those 1700 people who were trying to assault the border. And, thirdly, I believe that he lies to us to cover up or hide the responsibility of the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, that on the 25th, a few hours after the assault took place, he was already saying that that was settled and nothing had happened. And you're also trying to cover up Mr. Sánchez's responsibility, because Mr. Sánchez is as responsible as you are; you for lying to us and Mr. Sánchez for keeping him where he is. We know that you are not going to resign and we know that Sánchez is not going to cease you either, but this country cannot afford to have a minister like you, Mr Marlaska. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u176	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u177	Thank you very much, President. We again discuss the tragedy on the Spanish border with Morocco in Melilla, at the Chinese border crossing. We dealt with it just over two months ago in this plenary session, in the same format, and you, Minister, at that session on 21 September, highlighted the violence of immigrants, the proportionate use of force by the Civil Guard, that there were no deaths in Spanish territory, that the rejection at the border occurred in accordance with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court and the success of the joint operation with Morocco. This argumentary has been repeated by the minister and his minister, and he has held it in this session in view, among others - he tells us - of the recordings of the security cameras of the fence, the helicopter of the Civil Guard and the drone of the Civil Guard. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I make a brief parentheses about the Civil Guard recordings. All files take six hours and cover a three-and-a-half-hour time span. The Bureau and spokespersons of the Commission on the Interior saw them just last week in their entirety with regard to those containing relevant information on what happened, what were those of the drone and those of the helicopter. The fixed chambers of the fence could not be concerned with the incidents and do not bring anything about them, as we could see in situ, and so was corroborated by the Civil Guard, who accompanied us in his visualization. That is why, Minister, we do not understand the comment you make on the Commission's spokespersons because, without having fully visualized all the recordings, we are standing - I quote literally your statements - in supposed experts who then want to transfer to public opinion by issuing categorical biased judgments. By the way, Minister, the recordings of the drone and the Civil Guard helicopter are interrupted at key moments, especially during and after the avalanche in the Spanish doors and in the Spanish courtyard that give access to the towers, all under the custody and jurisdictional control of the Civil Guard and National Police. There are interruptions in the recordings and we are told that they were due to operational causes of the helicopter and drone and air traffic from the nearby airport and because these resources were available for the operational support of the police device. In principle, we don't have to doubt these reasons, but we would certainly need to know the audios between the helicopter pilot and the drone operator with air traffic with the operation and with the CORSÉ in order to have better knowledge of these important lapses in their recordings. I'll come back later on the video footage of the tragic incidents of June 24th. Minister, you have made constant emphasis on the proportionate use of force by the Civil Guard in response to the violence deployed by immigrants. Certainly, the desperate situation and the harassment - desperate for the perilous migration and the harassment suffered the previous days by the Moroccan security forces - may explain, although certainly it does not justify, their violent attitudes to access Spanish territory to a large extent also as transit and we also believe contextualized the use of force by the Civil Guard to neutralize that violence and prevent access to Melilla in that massive and violent way. Although also, Minister, there are some punctual behaviors, as we have seen in the videos, such as kicking, throwing stones or throwing stones and sticks by some member of the Spanish police operation that do not respond to tactics that are given in police training centres and that, therefore, can cause serious injuries that have not yet been sought, and whose proportionality may be questionable. So that the bulk of the most serious incidents and the totality of the deaths or injuries occurred in Moroccan territory, which has been one of the main axes of your explanations in what happened on 24 June at the border crossing of the Chinese neighbourhood in Melilla, I just want to ask you, Minister, to stop getting bogged down, other spokespersons have already told you. According to the videos that we have all had the opportunity to see, not only the police, but also the videos of private individuals, that the avalanche produced a pile of people that took place on the line of the border post that separates the operational zone from the forces and security forces of Morocco from those of Spain, on the line and on both sides of the same of these operational zones. When the Spanish doors gave way to violence, while the Moroccan forces began to press the migrants behind their backs, there was a stampede. Minister, you cannot hold, as you told us in your appearance and today repeat, that last June 24 - you said and I read the Journal of Sessions -, that the dangerous funnel, generating a bottling, put at risk the integrity of hundreds of people, fact that happens when a door is forced on the Moroccan side. This is manifestly wrong. Minister, you know this is not true. Already when he told us he had three months to have seen the recordings of the Civil Guard, and I am sure that he told him - the Civil Guard - the same thing he told the deputies of the Interior Commission when we visited Melilla and the border post: the doors of the avalanche were Spanish doors and the pile was on both sides of the border line between Morocco and the Spanish customs. As far as the Spanish political border with Morocco is concerned and where the whole border post, Minister, is concerned, I should stop speaking to some spokesman, as did the previous session, about whether I intended to incorporate territories into Spain and put the flag there. The Redesign Act of 1891 of the jurisdictional limits between the two countries leaves no doubt where the political border lies, and neither does the Catastro, even on the ownership of the entire border post. Nor is it correct to quote, as you did, a judgment of the National Court in a misguided manner, because, minister, you know that the current fence, for technical and geographical reasons, is being cut off from the political border in certain sections, and one of these is precisely the border post of the Chinese quarter, which is entirely in Spanish territory, without prejudice to the fact that the police operational management of the post is of a part-Moroccan and part of the Spanish security forces and bodies. With regard to the rejection at the border, you point out, Minister, that it was carried out in accordance with the judgement of the European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court and the Organic Aliens Act. However, I must remind you that the Constitutional Court's constitutionality judgment on the rejection at the border in relation to the tenth additional provision of the Organic Aliens Act is an abstract constitutionality judgment, which does not exempt the assessment of competing circumstances in each particular case and that, in relation to these competing and compelling circumstances - it is obvious - would allow the detained person to seek subsidiary protection while trying to overcome the elements of border containment. Rejection at the border also requires for application the existence of procedures and places available to obtain authorization of entry or to apply for asylum and refuge. This parliamentary group is not certain, for the time being and without further investigation, that the 470 people rejected special and compelling circumstances for having sued or prevented it and that they could have had places available to apply for asylum. In any case, beyond the above, we are also asked questions about rejection, why not individually identify each of the rejected persons so that they can exercise their right to effective judicial protection and judicial control. If filiation is not taken, there is no guarantee that they can claim that they were in exceptional circumstances. I will finish this first intervention. Do you think that, not being operational by law pending, the embassies...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u178	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u179	I'm done, President, for a second. ... since the embassies and consulates, and the Moroccan forces were not operational to prevent access to the border post to seek asylum, were these rejected persons not in these exceptional circumstances pointed out by the Constitutional Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u180	Thank you. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u181	I left it on. Thank you very much, President. Minister, an initial question. When did you see the pictures of the facts? This is important to take into account what you are saying now but also two months ago, in September, because, frankly, something does not fit me; it does not fit me after rereading your speech from last day 21 and listening to certain statements here today. But I don't like it either because, while it is true that there are questions that are on the table, we already have knowledge of other facts thanks to research, reports or demonstrations of relevant people. We have the Ombudsman's resolutions, and you have no better idea in the ministry than to say that you are wrong and confused. We also have a note from the European Commissioner for Human Rights, who visited Melilla last week and referred to hot returns and the inability to access border posts to apply for asylum in consulates and embassies in Morocco. This lady, what's wrong? Yesterday we read the United Nations Rapporteur on Human Rights for Migrants, and in the same way he pointed out exactly the same thing and, moreover, he added that that land of no one that you repeat in international law does not exist. But we have research of prestigious media and the two point in the same direction, both the research of the BBC and that carried out by the consortium of international media. You come here today and tell us that they are manipulations, conjectures, insinuations, speculations, exaggerations. What's going on? Only you know the truth of the facts? Is everyone wrong? I do not know, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I believe that, in view of this divergence of accounts, at least a committee of inquiry should be activated. If the facts are so clear and so different are seen by the rest of the institutions, even the rest of the political parties regardless of their ideology, why not activate a commission of inquiry? The Minister was talking about transparency. Why didn't you go to the European Parliament a month ago? If he was so willing, if he wanted to come, why didn't he go to the European Parliament? He then comes here and is dedicated to trolling Members of Parliament saying that they have only seen one third of the eight hours of images they made available. Where are those eight hours, Minister? Because they contributed six and a half hours to the Commission, half of which is unserviceable because, as some spokesman has already reported, they were stagnant cameras, fixed cameras pointing to places without any interest and do not provide data on the operation. But I'm surprised, you know what? That on the most relevant facts, such as the avalanche - which looks good; hard, terrible images, they know well - only see three minutes, and then there are no images of that avalanche; neither areas, nor those of the border post, which tell us that they were off, nor those of the border perimeter, which did not point to that area having the opportunity to do so from the command's operations center. It is a good thing that we know the images recorded by Moroccans and that the AMDH made public, because, if not, perhaps the cover-up and the practice of hiding what happened would be credible. But let us go to the facts, and other speakers and other speakers have also said so. They insist that the deaths and even the wounded did not occur in Spain, which did not happen anything tragic in Spain. My question is - and I would like you to clarify it here today - where Spain begins. I asked this question to the ministry; the ministry, on 18 November, provided me with the list of international treaties signed between Spain and Morocco, which define the border. [[shows a document]] He did something better, which is to send the map of the IGN where it is clearly appreciated which is the border. [[shows a photograph]] And you know what's going on? That not only that courtyard - which you now call transit, joint action and other exotic denominations - but all the border infrastructure, even what you call Morocco, which you used to call anyone's inner courtyard or land, all that is in Spain. According to you, not according to me; according to you, you have provided me with this information in parliamentary replies. So, be clear. It is true that this same question was asked to Lieutenant Colonel and he gave me a different answer, even with a map. He told me: one thing is the Spanish borders and another is the area of operation of Spain - with a red map that goes right up to the gate that yesterday was seen in the report of El País -. What's going on? We visited this area by the Members of the Commission and Morocco was neither asked for permission nor consulted nor informed. We visited it because, as we were told, it was territory controlled by Spain, which was the place of the events, the place of the avalanche when that door was broken. And does it tell us that there was no tragic event in Spain, already having knowledge of the images that they knew existed on the part of Morocco? Mr Minister, it is incomprehensible that we should continue to focus on the same subject with evident evidence. [[The lady]] On the lack of help, it is also not credible that, after seeing the images, those three terrible minutes, you say that you had no knowledge until one noon that there had been deaths in that border space. They had aerial images, they had the helicopter flying at a height of 100 meters from where the packing was taking place, in which you can see perfectly what was happening in that courtyard. Similarly, ten minutes after the avalanche, Moroccan agents crossed to the door of the Chinese neighborhood, entering through Melilla, and spoke with their Spanish counterparts, and they also had agents deployed in the fence. It's not credible that they didn't notice until one o'clock. But, more than that, it is that neither the people who fell from the fence, who were wounded by the blows, by the stones, even by the fainting, that were separated in Spanish territory for hours, neither acted nor attended healthly. The Lieutenant Colonel told us that some agent, some medical technician, attended to them, but it is not seen in the images neither instrumental nor kit, only that they approached them and looked at how they were. Do you know what's going on? Those injured persons were also returned to Morocco in violation of international law. It contradicts itself when it says that eleven people were taken care of, precisely those who escaped from the police forces, those who accessed CETI. He's talking about a guy they took care of in the eye. Do you know why they looked into your eye, Minister? Because, according to that kid, he got a bullet from a Civil Guard agent. I encourage you to investigate these facts and to ban such dangerous material at once. The reality is that wounded, but also minors, were expelled to Moroccan territory. You said no, that it was in compliance with international law and referred to the Strasbourg judgment, but it is that you forget half of the judgment. All they did was tell those people. Neither who they were nor where they came from, nor were they provided with a translator or a lawyer; none of these guarantees have been allowed. This has been said by the Ombudsman, the UN human rights rapporteur and the European Commissioner. Do not deceive us, Minister; if it is obvious that they did not respect each other. Moreover, and it has also been said, the 133 persons who acceded to CETI, all of them, have been processed for asylum; at the same time, it is clear that they cannot apply for asylum in Spain. You know that since the People's Party in 2014 facilitated asylum posts at the border, people of sub-Saharan origin do not have the capacity to access them - they do not have it - nor, as has also been repeated, to go to embassies or consulates. Finally, a curiosity. In June you cut me off when I told you that Moroccan agents had entered Spanish territory, so I was asking you when you saw the images. In September he mattified them, said they had come in for a ride, but, at the same time, he said they had accessed the roof, and today he has said it again. They entered the roof of the Spanish infrastructure because the agents of the Civil Guard opened them. What was going on? Didn't you have enough agents? Or do they prefer these agents to act in the border area? In the Civil Guard helicopter we see Moroccan agents, but less bad that we have the images of the photojournalist JavierBernardo, because, if not, we could also collate some of those statements. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, in the face of such a divergence between the positions of the other people and groups and those of the Minister, I encourage you to support a committee of inquiry. It is that, as long as this is not clarified, we will follow the same and we will be able to come to these appearances, the minister will say his version of the facts and the rest we will have seen another very different. I encourage you to act transparently, but truly. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which now has its turn in reply, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u183	Thank you, President. Minister, good afternoon. Almost everything has already been said, but I will highlight those aspects of your speech that I think are most relevant to the case before us. In your speech you say that today you are doing the umpteenth act of transparency, but, as has also been said, transparency would be to facilitate a commission of inquiry, because the reality is that it is the media, both the BBC and the consortium of international media, in which El País also participates, who are publishing the images that prove the events of that day in Melilla. In addition, in his speech he states that the events were in Nador. This is not true. The events were also in Melilla, so it has been credited by the spokesmen who preceded me, so it is credited by the Catastro, and so it is also credited by what was published yesterday El País. In his speech he states that the Spanish Civil Guard covered the movements, you said, of migrants. What the BBC already showed at the time is that what the Civil Guard did, too, was throwing stones and using pepper gas. In his speech he states that the performance was proportionate. Apart from the stones and the pepper gas, which have already been tested, minister, what the Spanish forces and security forces did was omit a demand for help. Spain had ambulances that didn't move a meter, even though there were people losing their lives live there, meters away. Failure to provide assistance. Or the more than four hundred hot returns of injured persons and, even, it seems that at least one minor was seeking asylum. The Ombudsman points out to them this question and, in fact, it has already been said, even the Strasbourg judgment, which endorses hot returns and which we do not share, states that hot returns can only be made if there are no risk factors. And in this case there were all the risk factors: there were injured people, there were minors and there were asylum seekers. You can tell me no; well, as you did not ask, you are not in a position to deny this statement because El País again - referring to the publication he made yesterday - believes that there were asylum seekers and that there was a minor. El País also believes that at least one dead person was in Spanish territory, and in your speech you affirm that no loss of human life was in Spanish territory. It is not true, Minister, and you should bear in mind the facts, you should allow the investigation, because, if not, you wonder why you are doing the role you are doing, who are you protecting?, to the security forces and bodies?, to the agreement you have with Morocco?, to Morocco not blackmail you anymore and not cause you more incidents at the border? Tell us the truth, Mr Marlaska, how much is border protection worth? In exchange for what? How many lives? In your speech you say that Spain is a country of asylum, but that is not true. The Ombudsman and the European Commissioner have already pointed out that there are no functional border posts. I was also told by the spokesman who preceded me. In your speech you also state that information is manipulated under conjecture. Who's conjecture, El País, Le Monde, the BBC? Minister, it is objective and categorical that the more than twenty people killed in Melilla are the responsibility of the security forces and bodies of the State and the security forces and bodies of Morocco, and has thus been accredited. It's impervious that you're covering up the truth, why? Who are you protecting, Minister? With human rights in hand, it is clear that Spain's foreign policy invalidates the fact that the Kingdom of Spain can be a rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Does it not draw the Minister's attention to the fact that, on a subject like this, with the controversial that it is, in which all the parliamentary groups, except the one who supports you, are asking for explanations, which is logical, but also the cessation or resignation, you are alone on this bench? Doesn't that make you think? I am no longer saying that the President of the Government is coming, that he was obviously not coming, but that no other fellow Member has come to worship him at any time, I believe, complicated for you by the situation that is going on. I have seen ministers in better situations than you are now covered by other members of the Government. Even the other day, from the socialist bench, the Minister Montero de Podemos was applauding more warmly than they did today for you. I think that should give you some thought about the situation you're in. In the end, what I don't understand is why you don't let the images see any of them, because here, and in sight, there are those who stand up for the Civil Guard's performance with the troops that there were, with the people who were and those who were in front of them and how they were acting in front of them, and there are those who totally question that performance; and I think if you see the videos you can draw the conclusions. What is evident is that in Melilla there are very few personnel of the state's security forces and bodies, very few, and they are clearly very poorly endowed. In the budgets they were told that that had to be increased and you said that with what was already enough to defend the border of Melilla, it was more obvious than that. The President of the Government said that the incident had been dealt with reasonably well. Hey, there's been dead! That people have died! How can one say when there are dead by means of something that has been done reasonably well? That's all there is to it. You come here to parapet in the Civil Guard. You?- No, no, no, You that when in this Chamber there have been said real atrocities against the Civil Guard, were sitting there and have been unable to ask for the voice to face for the Civil Guard. [[Applauds]] He's been unable and now he says that if the Civil Guard... No, no, we're not talking about the Civil Guard here, we're talking about the performance of the Ministry of the Interior, that you're the one who has to give the proper explanations and everyone's saying the same thing to you and you're still committed to what you're committed to. There are the images, we have seen them, and it would be good if all the Spaniards could see them so that everyone could draw their conclusions. One thing is good about this, and we are going to see the importance that the groups that support you on this issue give you, because it is clear that if the groups that support you give you the importance that they say you give you, you will no longer be Minister of the Interior. If you're still a minister, it's because those who support this seem very good to make noise, but not enough to put you in a jam; and we'll see that in the next few days. [[Applauds]] In any case, Minister, of course, conclusions: the Civil Guard and the state security forces and bodies need much more presence at the borders, in Melilla they need many more means, of course; it is not good that you make them responsible for what is going on, that cannot be done and, of course, your situation seems to me to be, at least, in doubt. It is clear that the support of the Government to you at this time is equal to zero, because there is no one here supporting you, nor the President of the Government, which is to ask why. We will see if those who support you, such as Esquerra or Euskal Herria Bildu, continue to support you or support what they say they will do in Melilla. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Finally, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u187	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister of the Interior. The information about the horrifying massacre that took place on 24 June around the border of Spain with Morocco in Melilla, in which an indeterminate number of people died, some sources raising to twenty-three, and there were more than seventy missing, should lead you to resign. The horrific images that were disseminated internationally by the British BBC and that were expanded by the Government, after being gagged for five months at the Congress of Deputies, reveal an opaque, elusive ministerial action typical of a Government that persists in circumventing its responsibilities. National and Community authorities and institutions have already pronounced themselves without conjecture. Yesterday, thanks to the work of an information consortium of which El País participates, new data were known that deepens the distrust in his story, of what the enemies of Spain take advantage here to disqualify the Civil Guard, after which you hide shamefully. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened in Melilla is another episode of an incessant succession of events that affect national security and that make it essential to explain at parliamentary level Pedro Sánchez's craft and weaving in diplomatic relations with Morocco, including his unexplained Copernican turn in the policy of Sahara. The President of the Government, in his confessional desire to pass on to history, is already on some black pages to abandon his fate to the Saharans and to anger Algeria, hindering our trade relations and the supply of gas in the midst of the energy crisis. It has also become clear once again that in our two autonomous Spanish cities, Melilla and Ceuta, it is very urgent to strengthen human and material resources so that our heroic forces and security forces have adequate equipment to deal with the potential serious dangers on the border. Such reinforcement must be permanent in order to avoid jumps in the fence or avalanches in the border crossings, but also invasions of the national territory, such as that which occurred in Ceuta last May 2021, in which more than 7,000 people entered illegally. Permanent and sufficient reinforcements, in short, to deal with how many assaults or incidents endanger the protection of our border and its heroic defenders and alter the daily lives of our suffering compatriots in both autonomous cities. Mr. Minister of the Interior, you have been inconclusive, tortuous and notoriously lacking in the truth in the General Courts. Their continuity in the Government is unsustainable. Given the precedents of previous colleagues from the blue bank, a good revolving door awaits you in the Constitution, the UN or in any canonship. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u188	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u189	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that this is a complicated debate, it is a difficult debate, but it was also a predictable debate. What was not predictable, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that you will stand today in front of the Civil Guard. [[Applauds]] And I'll tell you why. You have now stood in front of the Civil Guard because what you have done has been to question the Civil Guard device that day in Melilla. [[Applauds]] But not only that, they have done an even worse thing and it has been to distort the words that the Civil Guard told us to explain the facts that occurred. They haven't even been right in the hours. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen, if they were more inclined to the canapés and pastas than to pay attention to the videos that the Civil Guard took the trouble of teaching us in the Congress of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be clear in this presentation. I insist, it is a complicated, sensitive and complex issue, especially for a group and a political party like the Socialist Party. I would like to begin by making a statement of principles and disassembling your account about five arguments that I believe are important when it comes to being able to clarify these facts, and finally, I will make a small conclusion. The Socialist Party, my party, unlike you - ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - always defends the Constitution, always promotes the defence of human rights and always defends the interests of our country, whatever votes it costs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] National interest, Constitution and human rights applied to a government action that is improving the lives of millions of citizens, who are the social majority of this country. These principles are also the basis for political action outside this country and are principles that this Government applies to the migration policy that we are proud of. These principles lead us, first of all, to regret the loss of human lives on the border between Spain and Morocco, but we also regret that fifty-five agents of the Civil Guard - nothing more and nothing less than more than half of the agents who were on that device that day - were attacked. These democratic principles and values have to do with accountability and transparency in government action in each and every one of our institutions. The first argument, ladies and gentlemen, is the lack of transparency; transparency on facts that should never have happened, ladies and gentlemen. And today we are listening to spokespersons who have become judicial experts, geographers, storytellers, civil guard officers, prosecutors, lawyers, but who speak little and support their debate in objective facts that, I believe, we have been able to see and that we have been able to sustain among all. I have heard you question the Government's action on what happened on 24 June, and I am drawn to the attention, ladies and gentlemen - especially of some left-wing gentlemen - that they want to compare this fact with what happened in 2014 in El Tarajal. Mr Iñarritu, there is a substantial and essential difference that you should remember: in 2014 who was at the head of the Ministry of the Interior was more in trying to cover up the corruption of the People's Party than in managing the ministry itself. [[Applauds]] And today at the head of the Ministry of the Interior we have a minister committed to the development of public security and to giving more and better means to the security forces and bodies. This minister has now given more explanations in Parliament than Mr Fernández Díaz gave. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this ministry has brought all the images, all of them, to the parliamentary seat. We have been the editors of the images, ladies and gentlemen, we have said what to see and what not to see. We have decided what is not to be seen. When the People's Party government in 2014 had to bring the images, it brought the most timely ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the second argument is that there have been deaths in Spanish territory. After seeing the images we cannot have any certainty as to how or where or when the deceased occurred because in no image have we been able to see it. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are sure of is this: The Moroccan police inform the Civil Guard of the possibility that they might have died - both migrants and Moroccan authorities - at one in the afternoon, always as a possibility. The Civil Guard communicates this possibility to the Government Delegation at 2:15 p.m. Mrs. Vazquez, write down the hours because the other day I don't think you wrote them right. When the Spanish authorities have the first visual contact with the area where the attempt to enter - after two o'clock in the afternoon - they cannot determine whether or not there are deceased. And one last question, ladies and gentlemen, the Kingdom of Morocco has become responsible for all the deceased immigrants. From here you can draw up the stories you want and build your political opinion. The reality of what happened is what I just told you. The third argument, ladies and gentlemen, is that there was no proper police intervention. 1,700 people tried to enter our country by violently violating our border. It was a violent and group act; violent because it was clear the intention to cross the fence with axes and radials, violent because at all times there was a confrontation with the state security forces and bodies and violent because that day - as I said - as a result of its action more than half of the civilian guards were injured. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, my group takes care that the desire to reach a better place for thousands of people waiting on our borders can to some extent justify certain behaviours; but, ladies and gentlemen, what my group will never consent to is to endanger Spanish citizens and to violate our borders. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the forces and security forces of the State acted to avoid this, in accordance with the competences given to them by the legal system, with the aim of always restoring legality. For this reason, there were rejections at the border in accordance with Spanish legislation and the judgements of the European Court of Human Rights. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in all your arguments you have always forgotten a fundamental issue and that it was a violent attack on our border. See, ladies and gentlemen, all the judgments and case law on this issue. The fifth argument is that the Civil Guard does not have sufficient means. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, are there more civilian guards in Melilla now than when you were ruling? And the answer is yes. Are you better equipped now than when you were ruling? And the answer is yes. But it's not new what they say, ladies and gentlemen. For seven years you have cut personnel for the surveillance of the Melilla border, minimized investments in border crossings and cut money for the purchase of equipment and vehicles. That is your management, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Therefore, it was you who abandoned the security forces and bodies in Melilla. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, they are talking about the illegality of possible rejections at the border. Assumed, ladies and gentlemen, of the judgments issued so far by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. Was the passage through an enabled point? The answer is no. Was it done in a situation where the number and use of force prevailed? The answer is yes. Was the rejection made individually? The answer is yes. Was attention paid to whether there were vulnerable people? The answer is yes. And with all this, ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of the conditions pointed out by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Human Rights for this kind of return and rejection at the border are met. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to end a conclusion. What has the government done to manage this fact at the border of Nador and Melilla? The Government of Spain has complied with the law, the Government of Spain has been transparent, the Government of Spain has strengthened the state security forces and bodies and the Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has developed a migration policy that defends human rights. From today on, ladies and gentlemen, the task for us as national parliamentarians is to continue to promote the necessary measures to prevent such phenomena from happening again at our borders; ladies and gentlemen, we owe it to the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u190	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like - without prejudice to answering the references made by you - to clarify some very specific issues. They were tragic events that should not be repeated and that should not have happened. And I repeat that we show our empathy, but the same thing that we refer to that extreme must be made clear - and I repeat - that in no way can a violent act and unusual violence against our borders be justified. All parliamentary groups must say this expressly. Is there any problem in expressly mentioning that violence is not the legitimate exercise of any right, although we empathize with the underlying causes? I would like to reply in that regard to Mr Santiago, from Unidad Podemos. Totally agree, but it is that we have been doing migration policy for four and a half years, as I have said in those extremes, within the framework of the European Union, trying Spain to do migration policy. And to do migration policy is to cooperate in the development of the various countries of Africa, for obvious and concrete reasons; what we call advancing borders, that there is no need for war, economics and climate change that will cause people to leave their territories. That's what's called advancing borders. That is what African countries want because, as I have said a thousand times, they do not want to lose their youth because, obviously, it is their potential for progress and development. That, I say again, I would like to make it clear and to make it clear that violence should never take place. That is why I say that we are not facing a problem of the right of asylum, we are facing a problem of a violent act towards a border. Civil Guard action. Again, it was of absolute proportionality. I've seen conflicting visions here. You have seen the part of the images that you have seen and to which you have had access, which are all that existed, and I see absolutely contrary visions. I want to clearly define the proportionality of the work carried out by the Civil Guard defending the borders of Spain, which are the borders of the European Union, and the famous door separating the two border posts, one Moroccan control and the other Spanish control. If you have seen these images, you will have observed different migrant people hitting heavily different parts of the door, with radials, with clubs, etc., and the presence of those twelve civilian guards to whom they refer - there were others elsewhere - who had to leave that place to ensure their personal safety because they could have been the subject of a crash and we would have had greater damage. That is a reality that you have seen, and that leads you to put yourself back in order to contain them in case you cross the border post. I'd like to make that clear. They had 'packed' people to ensure then that if there were any vulnerable ones not immediately rejected at the border, but you were able to see how those 'packed' people were still in a violent attitude, with sticks, and the Civil Guard did a didactic - so to speak - job to stop that behavior. Even some GRS attended to check whether one was physically correct or not because there are GRS staff who have health training and for that it is. With this, I say again that his performance was absolutely proportional. 55 civilian guards injured, 2 serious. And I said they had to withdraw from that area, but it's that one was removed unconsciously and one with a fractured jaw. That was the violence developed. That is why I am making that call, and that is why I am not going to comment here, of course, on the demonstrations that the Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner has been able to make, but when we have the report that he is developing, we will make the appropriate allegations in this regard. Spain is the least sued country before the Court, before the European Court of Human Rights. Secondly, I have to say that we are the country that directly complies with all the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which is not very common in the 47 member countries. With this, I can only say again that I do not hide behind the Civil Guard - obviously - what I do is defend the Civil Guard's performance. Mr Cerrada spoke very correctly about the timetables. Mrs. Vazquez, you clear all the times. At five o'clock in the morning they were already... You are based on journalistic articles, which have the full right to journalistic articles, but, of course, no one has relied, except Mr Cerrada, on the indications given by the Lieutenant Colonel or on the attestation being drawn up by the prosecutor's office, on which there is the investigation and all the references, including the audios that were requested and to which Mr Legarda refers. All this is and the responsibility of the prosecution to substantiate the facts rests with the prosecutor's office. Let's let her work. Journalistic articles and so on are entitled, but obviously when I speak of conjecture it is because they are not based on the elements that determine a true and necessary investigation. Good proof of that is that yesterday afternoon a journalistic article said: At least one dead in the Spanish area. This morning we had breakfast with the same author saying: A person may have died in Spanish territory. That's textual. That is why I say that we should not conjecture about a tragedy that no one likes to have happened and that, I repeat, we must all work to ensure that it does not happen again. The five civilian guards at five in the morning... No, no, See when the helicopter comes out, when the drone comes out, and how they both work. Mr Legarda - forgive me, but this is the way I answer everyone and I do not repeat myself - you will see it by flying hours, the helicopter when it takes land is because it does not land or take off an aircraft and, necessarily, because of issues of air navigation management, it has to do so. But at that time it is the drone that keeps recording and when the drone has to go down - half an hour or forty minutes - to charge or change the battery, obviously the helicopter is. With this, all that and the audios have, as appropriate, the prosecution to take the investigative measures that it deems appropriate. That's the rule of law. There was no time when it won't be recorded. Another issue is that the helicopter and the drone serve to assist the troops deployed in the area, which is their core mission, and therefore change their location in the light of where our troops are stationed. When they withdraw, for the security reasons I have indicated, they have to move to give them the precise indications and be able to act. It's not for other reasons. That said to Mrs Vázquez because even Mr Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez acknowledged that at first there were 63, so that they could also see that element quoted. We have important means in Melilla. I'm sure more is needed, Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina and Mr. García Adanero, but we've already improved by a hundred. Of 600 we already have 706, because we can have sixty support at all times. Before, in previous years, five troops were lost every day and since we are we have earned nine troops every day. Therefore, we are incorporating and this year we will recover the 13,000 troops between the Police and the Civil Guard that were lost. Infrastructure. I have said in media, and I repeat, that in order to provide security we must have a border perimeter that is, of course, in the conditions necessary to ensure greater security. It has reformed everything that is the closed television circuit, the fiber optics, both in Ceuta and Melilla and the sensorisation of the fence with the aim of an early warning in case any attempt is observed, and all that is the border posts of Ceuta and Melilla, which will be completed by the summer of next year, with all the technologies, in order, of course, to be able to have biometric control of the people crossing as well as of the customs. I say it again: more than 50 million invested. The dikes of Ceuta and Melilla will also be strengthened this year, which is also bid for more than 5 million. I say again that that is working in safety and that we will continue to work in that direction. They talk about lies, but I don't know what I lied about. I say it again: more effective, not five agents, but the ones we had. And the people who came in, 134. Who said 470 people were rejected at the border was the ministry. The ministry, not because no one told him how many there were, was the one who said 470 had been rejected at the border, because we have nothing to hide. Not because nobody told us that they were more than we said, no; they were 470, and the ministry said so, both to the Ombudsman and to the Public Prosecutor's Office, and, as Mr Serrada said, fulfilled the rejection at the border in the terms that are currently regulated in the tenth provision, in correspondence with the interpretation of the ruling of the Constitutional Court 172/2020 and the February 2020 precedent of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, whose content you know perfectly well. With regard to similar events, with fewer people rejected at the border, he endorsed that interpretation. And I want to tell you, Mr. Santiago, that I'm with you. We can and must move forward, if we understand that protocols need to be improved to ensure more. We can talk, we can do the reform of the regulation you have mentioned on diplomatic legacies. I say again that we in the area of the right to asylum are a pioneer country. UNHCR works with us. We are one of the few countries within the framework of the European Union to which, in international protection files, UNHCR is a part - you know perfectly well - and I do not think that UNHCR has a bad impression of the work that is coordinated with the Ministry and the Government of Spain in this area. In all we can, Mr. Santiago, I hold your hand. Let's work. I am with you that migration policy is cross-cutting and that, first, it has developed, but then we must also ensure that they can access international protection in the terms you have said, in diplomatic delegations and in the changes that need to be made. Perfect. But one thing is that asylum can be formalized and another is the violent attack on a border endangering the security forces and bodies of the State and the migrants themselves, exercising that violence, which no one has denied - I thank you, Mr. Legarda - which was of an important entity. About the Spanish territory, I say again that, according to our information, our knowledge and what was mentioned, there was no deceased in Spanish territory. And I'm sorry, Mrs. Carvalho, that in a few cadastres, in a documentation, even in the ministry's documentation, it appears that the whole Chinese neighborhood is Spanish territory Who exercises sovereignty? Who exercises it in one part of the border and elsewhere? In this, if you are jurists, you will be with me in which national sovereignty is exercised de facto and de jure. We have there the fence, and in that fence, which was attacked violently, is where the funnel is formed and formed, and that no one has denied, but I say again that there was no funnel in the Spanish area, which we do not know, according to the investigations. Don't look for a dead man in the Spanish area, because there seems to be an interest in it. Since it cannot be proved that a dead man was in the area after this fence, it has even been mentioned that he goes to the cadastre, because it is all Spanish area. Look, we all have to work to prevent a tragedy like this from happening again, and that's what we're working on. The rejections at the border - I say again - were absolutely correct, and in line with the same. As Mr Cerrada has said, there are rejections at the border and this is a specific rejection at the border, as reflected in the tenth additional provision, because it is in the face of an attempt at violent attack on a border and not by the place empowered. There are other rejections at the border, such as those at airports, etc., but they are quite different. That's why this one has this specialty. Obviously, it was individual and it was controlled that no one was vulnerable, and it is not known that any vulnerable were rejected at the border. [[The Lord]] And I said, Mr Gutiérrez, textually - it is in the Journal of Sessions 209, page 67, of September 21 - that this cooperation between the gendarmerie and the Moroccan police and the Spanish Civil Guard is permanent and direct. And of course they entered; they entered to - requested by us - move those who had been rejected at the border. And I said it, in an operational way, obviously, and to guarantee the safety of those who were rejected and to be able to verify it. Look, I'm expressly telling you what's indicated. In these parameters, in the violent fact, there is - again I say that no statistical articles are guided - no dead in the Spanish area. There's the D.A.'s investigation, which has all the data. The Civil Guard - I say it again - acted with all proportionality, with all legality and in terms of necessity. I do not, of course, share Mr Ortega Smith's views on what has happened. The Civil Guard acted with proportionality and necessity, but acted in parameters of legality and human rights, humanitarian law. [[The lady]] The Civil Guard would never act in the terms that you implicitly understood would be timely: simply with a violent attack. No, the Civil Guard repels a violent attack in terms of human rights, in humanitarian terms, and that no one forgets. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u192	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u193	Mrs. Carvalho Dantas, I repeat to you the same as before. Our police officers acted and left no one in a situation of vulnerability or in a situation of need. Our medical services were to act and acted - I have given the interventions they had -, what happens is that there are protocols - we can also improve them, Mr Santiago, if it is appropriate and if it is estimated - where the safety of the health care workers is evident. They cannot enter an area where violent events are taking place, because, first, they would be inoperative, since they would not really be able to do their job, because they would lack that necessary peace and tranquillity and, second, because they would also become potential victims as a result of that event. Thus, they were and acted when the situation became complicated and received the medical assistance indicated. Mrs Illamola, I think I am responding quite well with this, because I am giving you references to the rejections at the border, to violence and to the Human Rights Police - I will answer it when I make the report -. What is clear is that no State, neither of the forty-seven of the Council of Europe nor of the world, accepts violent behaviour towards its borders; I do not know that no State acts in those terms, legitimizing violence against them. And I say again that the Civil Guard and our forces and security forces acted at the time of the rejection at the border in the terms that the European Court of Human Rights itself has established. I am convinced that the Commissioner herself knows that Spain is the country that most complies with the recommendations and resolutions of the European Court and the other institutions of the European Council. With regard to the videos, I would like to say again that if he was able to observe the important and relevant violence, even the agents had to withdraw from the immediate place, some because they had been seriously injured, others unconscious. Even facing those who acted violently, but very lightly, with some anti-disturbing material, such as pepper gas, they did not stop acting. It had to be the Civil Guard who retired. Does anyone want to tell me that it was not proportional action and that they did not act according to human rights criteria? Or am I saying something that doesn't appear in the images? I say this to those who have referred to it. For us to see the violence there was, I will tell you that simply the uniforms of the state security forces and bodies on the other side were not enough to prevent the attack on the border. That's what it means. Therefore, I ask you that, by sharing the basic reasons, let us not make any indirect reference with which it can be understood that nothing happens to repeat it in the future. [[The Lord]] Let's not do it. With violence of this kind or with any violence one cannot, of course, aspire to any right. That's why I'm talking about that proportionality. And on the subject of asylum, I say the same thing again. And to Mr García Adanero I just want to say that I am not alone, what happens is that it is a government that, in the face of the needs and what we have to face and we are facing, is working, as it should, and each one in his task, and my task today is to be here. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] But for that I have the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is a real honour. Not like you, who see him alone, who doesn't even have a match and who don't know if he's looking for someone to shelter him. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, who have stood up until the end of their speech, continue their applause.]] I am not looking for anyone to shelter me, because I have the best house, that of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, a previous question. We would like that, if you have any information about the explosion that has just occurred at the Ukrainian Embassy, you will provide it to us at the end. Let us hope that there have been no injuries and that no human life will have to be mourned. Minister, in September I myself believed your lies. Today I would have liked you to rectify, because a government that rectifies is a good government, Mr Marlaska. Look, there's a lack of means, and I'm not saying, Mr. Marlaska, that I'm not a civilian guard in Melilla. According to the National Judicial, only five officers were deployed from the first moment on the perimeter of the Spanish courtyard, and they had to leave there; that's why they were not there, so they are not responsible. [[shows a document]] According to the AUGC, civilian guards in Melilla feel abandoned and without clear protocols of action. [[shows a document]] I mean, I don't say that. Your Honor, we also have your own parliamentary responses. [[Shows several documents]] In 2018, according to the Ministry of the Interior, there were 594 personnel in the asset catalogue. In 2022, according to your reply, there were 599, only five more civilian guards, when you know that you entered 24% more immigration to Melilla this year. The lack of means I showed her the other day. These images were sent to me by the officers who fell wounded in Melilla, and this is the helmet of the one who went unconscious. [[shows two photographs]] Thanks to the fact that we went to Melilla and revealed the lack of means, they just sent 250 helmets. These unions and associations to you are already starting to call you "Grand-Annuncio" sometimes instead of "Grand-Marlaska", because, indeed, in March he said that the reinforcement of the fence would be completed in three months, but on 24 June that reinforcement did not yet exist, there were 120 meters left to install. In March he said that the intelligent border of Melilla would be operational by the end of the year and the government delegate last week said it would be from next year. Last month there was a new call for vacancies for Melilla: zero agents for Melilla Civil Guard and zero agents for Ceuta. Today, Minister, your lies are spread in all the national and international media. It's a scandal, and the president of the government is being complicit in his lies. A minister of the Interior is to defend the honour of the police and the Civil Guard and not to cover up their lies. From the first moment we defend the proportional action of the Civil Guard, both in the beginning and in the containment and in the rejection. I got sick and tired every day of saying in the media that the agents of the Civil Guard were not there, that the agents of the Civil Guard could not see what was happening at 6 meters high at that border crossing. And I am sick and tired of saying that I am proud of what the People's Party Legislating in 2014 as a rejection at the border, that you embrace today, because it is the only instrument left to the Civil Guard to defend the borders of Ceuta and Melilla. [[applause]] It's over, ladies and gentlemen. I was bringing here a map for you to try to point out where you thought Melilla's border was, but I don't know if you'll be able to. [[shows the map]] However, I will give Sanchez the first reason when he said - I am concerned about this statement - on June 24th, at 4:13 pm, in El Diario.es, Sánchez the following: 'See the images in which the gendarmerie has gone to great lengths to try to avoid the violent assault'. What images was Mr. Sánchez referring to when he said this? [[Shows a document.-Applause]] Because those images have been hidden from us during this time. This is the only truth that the Government said, which had been used thoroughly in Morocco, and today you continue to hide Morocco's brutal performance on Spanish soil. Stop attacking the media, Mr. Marlaska. The lies in democracy are paid with resignations, so, out of respect for the Civil Guard, out of respect for those who lost their lives in the Melilla fence, out of respect for dignity in politics, out of respect for the truth, out of respect for decency, out of respect for the values of the Constitution and out of respect for Spain and our democracy, go Mr Marlaska. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u196	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u197	Minister, once again in this House, the seat of national sovereignty, we are again witnessing the spectacle of the hypocrisy of progressive consensus, which has been written on the agendas by the left, the extreme left and the compounded right. Always the same. Agents who have been and have been assaulted are allowed to be alerted, rather than to be held responsible for violent assailants. [[Applauds]] Countries that have at least a seemingly democratic and free environment are pointed out and demanded responsibilities, but countries that are dictatorships of corrupt people, that have ruined and persecuted their people, are never pointed out, and are often caught up in the tragedy of fleeing from their own nations. It is pointed out or forgotten, with the'something they will have done', that they were victims of terrorism, instead of pointing out to those parties that have protected, financed or promoted terrorists or benefited from them. [[Applauds]] It is pointed out, demanded and claimed in the streets and in the stands, in countries where there is equality, at least formal, before the law and non-discrimination on the grounds of political opinion, sexual orientation or religious belief, and it is never pointed out to countries that trample and despise women, homosexuals or political dissidents, or protest against them. Always, always the hypocrisy of progressive consensus. What we point out in this rostrum and will repeat how many times it takes is that those responsible for what we are talking about here today are precisely those who facilitate, favour and encourage the so-called effect: those who intend to enter are given the impression that they will receive financial aid, free health care and social housing and that they will also be given nationality. They are rights that many millions of Spaniards do not even have guaranteed. [[Applauds]] It is responsible for those in the Government of Spain or the autonomous communities who give in to the blackmail of those countries - Morocco, Algeria or Mauritania - who, in exchange for not continuing to launch avalanches at our borders or jumping, demand money under the excuse that it is to better combat those avalanches, when we know that in the end they end up strengthening their armed forces, with which, moreover, they threaten our sovereignty. The aim of all of them, responsible for this situation, is nothing other than to try to achieve by the de facto - or, one day, by law - that the borders disappear and that there are open borders so that millions of people can move with complete freedom without any control, thus destabilizing social and economic many countries, among others Spain, through what has already been denounced as active and passive as a genuine invasion by substitution, and in addition achieving small profits through a cheap labour force. Let it be clear that when VOX comes to the government we will pass an alien law in which those who enter Spain illegally lose all hope that they can stay, that they will be regularised or that they will be given Spanish nationality. We will truly strengthen the State's security forces and bodies with more human, material and greater instructions so that they can act in defence of our borders. And our foreign policy will never reward the countries that drive such illegal immigration and those that really try to control it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u198	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not want to fail to show solidarity with the Civil Guard and with all the officials working at borders, because, in fact, it is a difficult job, a job that is often given complicated circumstances. But what happened on 24 June in Melilla was not an attack on Spanish sovereignty, and I take the opportunity to dismantle that bubble that intends to present what happened as an attack on our sovereignty. Violence, of course, is never acceptable under any circumstances and, indeed, was perpetrated violently by desperate people. But the intention of these people was to enter the European Union, not to attack Spanish or Moroccan institutions or officials. Whoever says that lies knowingly. The extreme right and the far right are presenting as an operation of military aggression, which is nothing more than the despair caused by the desire to gain access to a dignified and secure life in the European Union of people who do not have that possibility in their country. Mr Ortega Smith, of course we point out to dictators and countries where there are no rights, because there are rights, and that is precisely why Spain has to be a host country. Indeed, a foreign policy based on border shielding will not put an end to the need for those who have no rights, as the Minister has said very well. This has always been the case, and the Spanish people have lived it in their own flesh throughout our history on countless occasions: we have had to leave our homeland, fleeing from political persecution and lack of democracy, fleeing poverty and misery in order to find a worthy future in more developed countries than our own. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to return the welcome received by the Spanish very often in many countries of the world, because the Spanish and Spanish have also crossed the borders illegally, violating them. [[Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina makes negative signs]] They have crossed the oceans on ships loaded with migrants and have arrived in countries where they started working without having permissions for it, and this in Spain is only ignored by those who are very rich and have always been or those who supported the dictatorship and did not have to go to another country. [[Applauds]] The only way to prevent people from being forced to leave their land, their families and friends is to establish policies of equal economic, commercial and social cooperation between the north and the south, so that everywhere there are decent freedoms and living conditions, as the Minister has said. Only in this way will people who move from one country to another do so in order not to escape from misery or humanitarian disasters. As long as these inequalities and the denial of rights in so many parts of the world are overcome, there are other more viable and appropriate ways to avoid these migratory tragedies. There is a need for properly harmonised border policies throughout the territory of the European Union so that the delivery of humanitarian assistance and international protection to people arriving at borders, not Spanish, but European; ensuring effective coordination of border asylum systems so that there are no countries such as Spain that have to deal with difficult situations in isolation, such as that experienced on the 24th day of the Melilla border. Minister, I am grateful for the commitments you have shown, and it is now up to you to implement them. Of course, we will work to open the protection offices in consulates and embassies now, as you have said, to ensure effective access to border protection, without having to violate it, so that health care is never omitted for those who need it in front of such a thing. I ask you, please, to work to identify all the victims and to determine the causes of the deaths, to contact their relatives, to urge you to adopt the European resettlement framework and to guarantee all legal, national and international forecasts in cases of return at the border so that they are actually rejected, where appropriate, and not hot returns. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u200	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. From this rostrum, my parliamentary group wants to give a little recognition to the journalistic work on borders and migration policies that carry out various professionals who uncover uncomfortable truths, such as the massacre on the Melilla Nador border. We mention only a few names for lack of time, such as journalist Gabriela Sánchez or Sarah Babiker, María Martín, Violeta Muñoz, Nicolás Castellano, Alaaddine Azzouzi, Youssef Ouled, SoniaCalvó, Ferran Moreno, Maud Jullien, José Antonio Bautista, Steffen Lüdke, Javier Bauluz, José Palazón, Klaas van Dijken, Moha Gerehou and many others. [[Applauds]] That said, I remind you of your lordships and all the citizens who are seeing or listening to us right now that what happened in Melilla is nothing new. People who work on the issue of the southern border - be activists, jurists, journalists - know that this is not the first time that this has happened. Obviously, with 23 people officially killed, with 77 people missing, with the media all over the world talking about it, it has been the most visible topic, but I want to remember - and I only remember one because I don't have time - that on April 24, 2014, in the same Chinese neighborhood of Melilla, a similar event took place on June 24 this year. In the images, which you can look for because there are also journalists who have done this research work, you can see how from the Spanish facilities protected by the Civil Guard they returned in hot heat to various people, several of them injured. People can be seen injured on the ground and even being dragged down the ground, because, at best, those migrants were unaware. Look for the images and you will see that it is nothing new what happened. Minister, I'm asking you a few questions. You say the Civil Guard had an absolutely rigorous and professional performance. I ask you the first question: can you tell me in what Spanish regulations it is that an agent - or two, in this case, to be more accurate according to the images I saw last week - of the Civil Guard can slap a defenseless person on the ground? We've seen it in the pictures. I'd like to know what regulation that is in. Second question: The Ombudsman points out to the outside world and also to the Ministry of the Interior and says that migrants from the Melilla fence had no choice but to apply for asylum. My question is: could you tell us what options these people have to apply for asylum in Melilla, people from African countries, victims of war, persecution, etc.? Can you tell me how many people, especially black Africans, have managed to apply for asylum in Beni Enzar and also in the embassy? This answer is important. I ask you one more question: why didn't you teach us all the images to the Members of this House? Why didn't we see the people crushed by the Moroccan forces in the Spanish area, which are the images we saw yesterday? This question I ask you is very important. I remember that last week I got up - Members of this House and Members of this House are here, who can give me reason - and I went to television, and I asked the commanding officer to take the video back, please, and put it at a slow speed. Why don't we get the Civil Guard to spin those two cameras? Because there are three cameras; one yes, but those two cameras why not? The truth is, it wasn't clear. I thank the Lieutenant Colonel for his patience in coming. In fact, from my parliamentary group that same day we gave him our solidarity with the agents of the Civil Guard who were also affected. I did. But why didn't those two cameras turn?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u202	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u203	Yes, I will finish with a sentence, Mr President, if I may, very telegraphically. I say the following, I think this is important, as Congressman Enrique Santiago has just said, because this story has been created a lot...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u204	Your Honor, say the sentence you wanted and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u205	... and it is very dangerous that since the PSOE is saying this: to invade Spain violently. No, no, let's not contribute to this, Minister. Violent invasion of Spain, no. The process - and here it is leodirectly - black politician of forced migration with laws, institutions, political discourses, legal and illegal markets to earn money with the death of people,...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u206	Your Honor, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u207	... Do you consider this legal? However, the people who flee seeking refuge, these people... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u208	Thank you very much, Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you. [[The Presidency disconnects the microphone from the speakers' rostrum as Mrs Carvalho Dantas continues to speak]] Your Honor, your time and speech are over, thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u209	We continue, Minister. I'm going to go to very specific things. The additional tenth provision of Lodyle tells us exactly: '... detected on the border line... while trying to overcome the containment elements...'. The 470 people who were returned - who were returned hot - had overcome those containment elements, were on the road. In addition, the additional provision continues to say: 'In any case, the rejection will be carried out in accordance with international human rights law...', and it was not respected, most of them were simply tied up, a number was placed on them and returned, nothing more. This is not respect for international law. In relation to the images. In the vision of official images, yours - I would recommend that you also see the others -, we have seen many coincidences, and it has already been said by other spokespersons. You said that there is no time frame in which there has been no recording. From what we have seen, there is some lapse of time - some ten minutes - in which no recording is seen, because the helicopter has to refuel, because the drone battery is changed, because the fixed camera focuses on another side and the operator did not turn it or because the cameras in the transit zone were closed. The question is: why, after 5:00 in the morning, do you tell them that a group was coming, you say 'violent' - I do not share it - did you not modify the recording protocols? As a result of what happened last June, are you going to change the recording protocol so you can always be sure that everything that happens on that perimeter is recorded? Let us assume, therefore, that it is true that at the time of the events you did not know what was going on, because you told us that you did not inform them, and did not know that there were inhuman and degrading treatment. After that moment, after those events - when we have all had access to the images - why have you not been interested in the specific people who died or who are missing? You talk about communication all the time and coordination in specific spaces. The future - we believe - of border control should not only be security, and if that is the model that you are defending, it should not be by accepting that respect for human rights goes into the background. In their last communication with Morocco at 1:00, the Moroccan security forces told them that they could have died, didn't you care about the detail that they could have died? And since you are cooperating, have you offered to provide humanitarian or health assistance in Moroccan territory? We were told by the Civil Guard that Moroccan forces offered to enter Spanish territory - and in fact entered - but did you not offer for humanitarian aid? Or his only obsession was to keep them from coming in and the rest of them didn't care? It really amazes me how you work, because I find it very strange that, according to the videos, from 11:15, when the rejection ended, until 5:00 p.m. you did not enter the transit zone, not even out of curiosity to see what was there. I'm sorry, but this doesn't seem credible to me. As you say, Morocco has assumed all the deaths, does this mean that there is no longer a problem, that as we do not see the dead or as they have not been - in your opinion - in Spanish territory we are no longer concerned? Speaking of the use of force, the Spanish forces and security forces used gases - like Moroccan gas - and it is said in international texts that the use of these gases cannot be used if it contributes to creating a feeling of panic and shock. And this was also what happened; therefore, they contributed to it. Officially we have 23 dead, 77 missing plus an indeterminate number, 470 deported, in principle are the official numbers. Have they wondered why these people put their lives at risk to reach Europe? I believe that this is the key; the key is to know why they are fleeing their countries, which is not of their own free will, but because they have no choice. The European Union and the Member States - we believe - must seek alternatives to irregular migration, and that alternative does not go through more security at borders and the outsourcing of borders; the solution is to seek mechanisms for these people to stay in their countries and freely choose whether they wish to migrate. I do not know if you have read it, but the United Nations rapporteur on the rights of migrants has stated that the politicization of immigration does not relieve the receiving State of responsibility for migrants. Minister, will we again see other missions accomplished with this success - which is the phrase you used - I hope not. And I'm done, Mr. President. Minister, you said that Spain is the country that directly complies with all the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Are you sure you're doing all of them? How long does it take? I totally disagree with this, they do not comply with all the European Court's resolutions, they do not comply with all the recommendations of all the Council of Europe bodies - including the PACE - and they do not comply with all the legislation and all the jurisprudence of European Union law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u210	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I must tell you that in the reply, first of all, you have not answered any of the questions we have asked you. Secondly, you have not disassembled any of the assertions we have made that you have deceived us again and that you have again lied to us today, exactly as you did in your previous appearance in September. And, third, he's been very poor, so poor that in the end... I used to tell him that all the groups in the House, except one, were going to tell him that you had lied to us. Yes, all the groups in the House have said that you have lied, not even the spokesman for the Socialist Group has been able to say that what you said was true; not even that, Minister. I think that's why you have to think about why. I believe that you are pertinent in the mistake and again insisting on the same, that it is not that we have dismantled it in the Committee on the Interior, but that you have told it to the Ombudsman himself. There are things that are palmarias and that are objective, not subjective, and they are the images that we have all been able to see. Faced with that, you can define it as you want or use ambiguities, but the reality is what we have seen and the reality that we have seen has nothing to do with or has very little to do with what you have told us. I do not think you realize, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, because do you really think that the civil guards are concerned about which of the two parties has left them the most? It's just that this isn't about who left more, it's about you leaving them. What needs to be done is to put solutions, Minister, and you have given no solution so that this will not be repeated, of course, no solution so that the men and women of the Civil Guard and the National Police who were there in that performance will not be injured again if a similar situation happens again, and that they will have more resources at their disposal. But I am going even one step ahead, to the preventive part of this, Minister, and not only to the extinction of the problem, I am going to the preventive part. How could Morocco have deployed more than six hundred people there who are not of endowment on the border of Nador and that we had nothing? Didn't we know anything before this happened? Because there were indications that the sub-Saharans or all the people who were in the forest of Nador would come down at some point. They knew it. Otherwise, they wouldn't have provided that, because at 4 or 5 in the morning there were a lot more Moroccan troops than ours. So, there's something there that I'm surprised about the communication that we have with this kind of thing with the Kingdom of Morocco, and that's a preventive part where your ministry should be working on and that you're not overstepping it, it's that you've obviated it directly. You tell us that you have a migration policy that is working effectively. If it's working effectively, why has this happened? You do not have any immigration policy, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, none, and the proof is that you have done nothing to prevent this from happening. Nor have they done anything to keep this from happening again, which is the worrying thing, that I think these are the lessons we have to learn from this. It is no longer just that you have lied to all the Spaniards and that we have to reproach them, of course, Minister, but that you have done nothing to ensure that this does not happen again. Nothing. Or at least you have not explained anything, from June to now, that is preventive so that this situation does not happen again. I am going to tell you one thing that we, the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, have done today, we have put forward a proposal for a law precisely to make a law on migration. There you have a good solution. I hope that when we bring this to the consideration of the whole House you will support it, that you will be able to pass this bill, amend it to the extent you want in your parliamentary procedure, but here you have a solution. There are groups in this House, Minister, which do work to improve migration policy, so that these things will never happen again, because as you have seen so far, for what you have done, it will at no time correct this situation. Minister - you have finished, President - I think that your speech today, what you told us today, has been very sad. It has been sad that you fooled all the Spaniards, it has been sad that you again fooled all of us, and I would like you to correct it, because I know that you are not going to leave, I know that President Sánchez is not going to cease you either, but I believe that society is going to sue you, Minister. It is going to be sued because society does not tolerate it being misled over and over again, over and over again. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u212	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u213	Thank you, President. Is there anything that could be done to prevent the events and the tragedy of June 24th? Were those people who were injured after the avalanche and who were at the Spanish border post cared for? Why did they die if they were dead? Should certain procedures used by security forces and bodies in a timely and non-generalised manner to repel or control people who attack the fence be avoided? Are they proportional? Why does the helicopter and drone stop recording facts that are very relevant to people's lives and focus only on police operational issues? Why were the internal security cameras at the border post inoperative? Why didn't the fence cameras reorient themselves? Why, since the Civil Guard had already expelled all emigrants at 11:15, did not enter the border post under its jurisdiction until 13:00, in order to be able to verify the situation of the same, after he was aware of the avalanche of piles of people at 8:43, once the doors were broken, according to images transmitted by the helicopter and the drone? Should we review the provisions for border rejection and the places allowed to apply for asylum and refuge? Why is there only operational coordination with Morocco for the strict surrender of immigrants rejected at the border, but not for information on what happens in Morocco in the vicinity of the border the previous days? It is surprising - it has already been said - the enormous deployment of the Moroccan security forces on 24 June in the face of the small proportion of civilian guards, who had to prolong the night shift to accompany those of the incoming shift; we do not believe that it was because of an error in forecasting the Civil Guard device, but because of the lack of Moroccan information about what could happen, and thus they could have requested timely reinforcements in due course. Why are border rejections not carried out on the border line when there was no impediment to it? This would have made it possible to see what happened there in real time and not later. Why has Morocco not provided any information on its actions or on what was seen and acted at the border post under Spanish police jurisdiction or on the bodies of immigrants removed from it or on the injured persons removed or, where appropriate, on the care given or, where appropriate, whether or not autopsy was carried out or the outcome of the autopsy? Why if all this is missing with Morocco, your Foreign Minister, asked last week about the events in the Melilla fence on 24 June, replied that the cooperation between Madrid and Rabat against illegal immigration is a model for other countries? Minister, at the next summit with Morocco at high level - in January or February - do you intend to address this issue? Minister, do you consider that Spain can in any case disagree with what happened a few metres from its border post? Minister, look at the significance and gravity of the facts affecting human rights, as the Office of the Attorney General of the State has pointed out, the aspects of the facts that are under specification, the need for transparency in the face of society and the reflection on the measures to ensure that this never happens again, to alleviate their effects in all its dimensions or to reconsider the procedures for rejection at the border, we believe, from our point of view, that they call for the creation of a commission of inquiry. Last but not least - which I was unable to say at the end of my first intervention - we would like to welcome the fact that all the agents of the authority who were assisted in health centres by the injuries suffered on 24 June in the incidents on the border in their security work are completely replaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u215	Thank you very much, President. Minister, in September I had a feeling that I had virtually no answer to any of the questions I asked you. He answered with generality not to answer specific questions. Today in its first part I have the same perception. That is why I ask you again: where does Spain begin in the Chinese Quarter?, because you have tried to explain it, but I think it has been linked, or we have not understood it well, so I ask you that now, when you go up again, we clarify where Spain begins. Look, he's even done some digging on the cadastre information. He said that where the events took place was the property of the Spanish Government, and he questioned the boundaries of the border between Morocco and Spain, but when I asked them, that was the data they gave me. If most of the deaths occurred due to this avalanche, all those deaths, all of them, occurred in Spanish territory: those in the area controlled operationally by Morocco and those in the Spanish operational zone. Everyone! So, taking this into account, it's strange that you came here with that certainty to say that there were no deaths in Spanish territory. There are images already; thanks to these Moroccan images one person is identified, because those images focus on one person, but there are testimonies that say there is more. That is why - and other speakers have told you - have you consulted with Morocco, with that partner you have, if there were deaths in that space? Did they ask for the autopsy? Have you been asked for police reports? And of the dead, you say no, although all media say yes, but of the wounded, seeing the images of the avalanche, it was foreseeable that there would have been wounded, as there were, and of gravity. Why didn't they intervene? Why did they let it be Morocco - even the Moroccan forces opened the gate to them to enter the roof - which will only take care of the cleaning - in quotes - that said Lieutenant Colonel Ortega, of all that space? Why didn't you guys even come? He says that returns, rejections at the border - this euphemism they use - were made with complete legality. Well, we already have the identity data of a minor. It is also certified that the injured persons who were not cared for were returned to Morocco, and do you put UNHCR on a stand, as you did with Ceuta in June 2011 at an appearance here? What does UNHCR think of these returns, 470? Do you agree? I have the perception that they will not be very happy with you, Minister. On medical care, which he said was attended by some specialist, none of the images of the helicopter are perceived. He's already told us the ambulance didn't come to them. In the controversial images we have seen, we have to be fair, there are all kinds of images in those hours: you see agents of authority helping migrants, there are agents of the Civil Guard talking and trying to calm the situation, but in the same way there are individual actions, at least, of bad practice or unorthodox, at least. There's everything, it's many hours, but what you can see is that from 9:15 that bag of containment of people is stabilized. Why in that space of time that goes from 9:15 or 9:30 until 11:15 didn't the health care staff attend to those wounded people? There are images that have filtered from the facts. We have seen at least those that have made available to us, which, all to be said, are few, and on the most relevant facts, especially, are very few. Why not make them public and that any citizen, any journalist, any NGO can assess what happened? If everything's all right, according to you, what fear is there? The leader of the Socialist Party mentioned the Tarajal, and I was surprised. Here the only person who has exemplified the tragedy of the Tarajal has been the minister. Look in the Journal of Sessions what you said, because I was scared. Finally, I believe that in the face of so many questions that remain in the air and that, obviously, the Minister is not going to answer, as he did in September - to which he did not, Minister? - to which he is not going to answer all the questions that we have asked him? - the right thing would be to open a committee of inquiry as soon as possible, because as long as there are no legal and secure avenues this can happen again. They have been told, Minister: What can a Senegalese or Sudanese who is in Morocco and who wants to apply for asylum in Spain to apply for asylum legally? What can you do? Where can you go? How can you do that? Jumping the fence is fatal, but how can you do it? There's no way, Minister. As long as they don't fix it, this can happen again. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u216	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u217	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that you have had enough of defending the Civil Guard, but today you have taken the day off. I tell you this because today what you have done has not been against the minister, it has not been against the ministry; all you have done has been against the work of the state security forces and bodies. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what is this about the minister hiding behind the Civil Guard? If the only one who defended the Civil Guard was the minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, he was the only one. [[Rumors]] Please, how do you hide? I will remind you again: you reduced the personnel assigned to surveillance at the border at Melilla, you cut investments at the Melilla border crossings and you cut the money to purchase materials and vehicles to monitor the border crossings at Melilla. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the only ones who have left the Civil Guard and the National Police in Melilla behind have been you. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX and Citizens, I do not forget you, but I do not want to waste any more time either. I see that the gentlemen of VOX, in this desire to work so hard, do not want to continue in plenary now either. Their vote against the general budgets of the State is a vote against the security forces and bodies of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, how little shame you are now demanding this government to do in five years what you have not done in seven. Migration flows are increasing, migration flows are rising - I think it is a reality that no one is escaped - because more and more people are fleeing from hunger, more and more people are fleeing droughts, wars and terrorism. The question I ask you today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the main opposition party, is what you do, what you propose to improve living conditions in countries of origin and transit. And I will tell you this because we had the example here last week: they did not support the law of cooperation; they said that the budget increase in development cooperation is unnecessary and they also pointed out that increasing the budget of the Ministry of the Interior in police cooperation is to throw away the money. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is your proposal to reduce migratory flows, this is your proposal to try to win the Government of Spain. It is only left, gentlemen of the People's Party, to comfort us and say that less evil that you are not ruling, because, if not, the situation at such a critical and complicated time as this would be much worse. But do you know what's the worst for you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the worst that's happening to you today? That all the bubbles, the fakes, the complaints in the courts, the acts of exaltation of their patriotic sentiment, the accuser tweets with photographs of the minister, their bear hugs to the forces and security forces are serving absolutely nothing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The minister is still there and the minister is still managing the government's security policy. And I look now, ladies and gentlemen, towards the other side, I look at those who, like us, defend democratic values and defend human rights. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of the left, we are sure that this government, that this minister defends human rights and that his actions are always within the framework of the Constitution and the legal framework of our country. I understand that it is very complicated sometimes to get out of the script and get out of an issue that they already had in mind before, during and after this monitoring session, and it is to request a commission of inquiry. We know they're going to keep stretching the gum and we know they're going to keep their position, but the videos are clear. The videos are enlightening. There is only one account, and what is seen is that there is a massive and violent attempt to enter our country and that there is a proportional action that is in keeping with the legality of the state security forces and bodies. What cannot be assured, ladies and gentlemen, what cannot be guaranteed in any case, seeing the images, is that someone had died in Spanish territory. For their peace of mind, these images are in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office - all of them, even those they didn't see - and the Prosecutor's Office will see them all and review them all. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Office of the Prosecutor will take the legal decisions it deems most appropriate. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u218	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this appearance has left some clear questions - I will be brief - first of all, of course, the existence of a tragedy that we would not have liked to have experienced. I want to show our total empathy with the deceased and also with the Spanish and Moroccan security forces and bodies. It has also left us a violent fact in relation to our borders. I have not spoken of invasion, as someone has said, but of a violent act towards our borders that a rule of law cannot allow, regardless of the reasons, with which it can be empathized, to subside. As I indicated, we are doing migration policy within the framework of the European Union. In this regard, I would like to stress that I believe that the proportionality - I believe not, I am convinced - of the actions of our agents, our forces and security forces, of the Civil Guard specifically, defending our borders has been clear, as has also been clear the assistance to all those injured by the Spanish services at the time when it was feasible, in accordance with the protocols and guaranteeing their safety and the possibility of intervention, and, of course, there was no event of a vital nature on national territory. With regard to borders, Mr Iñarritu, let me tell you that I believe that the only one who is unclear about the territorial context of where Spain begins and ends, and for a long time, is you. Let me tell you with all due respect. Finally, I would like to point out that we will continue to work on migration policy in those protocols which we understand can and must be improved to guarantee the right of asylum in the terms I have indicated to you, Mr Santiago, and which you have outlined. It is important that migration policy be cross-cutting. Mr Gutiérrez, this government has a migration policy; so much so that we work and save lives. Forty per cent of the outings organized by the maritime mafias are also solved by the intervention of our Civil Guard and our National Police working in Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Morocco, breaking up networks. This year, today, we have reduced irregular entries by 25% compared to last year. We also want to work, and we work, on regular, legal, orderly migration, promoting it, which is what this government is doing and will continue to do from here and from the European Union. That's what we're basically in. Mrs Illamola, I will give you an example, because when you give an example you understand how Spain is the country that best meets. You remember Parot's sentence and what you determined, don't you? It was executed directly not only for Parot, but for all those it affected. That is, when we talk about human rights and fundamental freedoms, this country fulfils and will continue to do so. I believe that this example is very enlightening of everything, and if for you it is not a very enlightening example of Spain's commitment to human rights, it seems to me that it will be difficult to find a better example in this regard. Finally, with regard to transparency, I say again that we will give the necessary and precise explanations, as we gave them in September, as we have given them today and as we give them every Wednesday in the control sessions of the Government and wherever necessary and necessary. As Mr Cerrada has said, let us not forget that the investigation is open where it should be at this time, which I understand is in the Office of the Prosecutor, which will clearly determine what it considers appropriate, as is the case of those who are directly competent at this time and within the framework of a rule of law. We continue, therefore, in those terms. I would like to thank you and your contributions, which are obviously important and necessary, and I will continue to be at your disposal. Then, if you like, Mrs Vázquez, I would like to comment on Ukraine, although we can be slightly satisfied because the wounded are mild. Before I finish, let me tell you, Mr Ortega Smith - who I did not see you before -, obiter dictates, as we say when we allude to a sentence, that whenever you talk about this welcoming country with the different, when you mention sexual orientation, you look at me in a different way. Thank you, but I will tell you that tomorrow is December 1, and the LGTB collective was held for a long time, and still perhaps by many people, stigmatized with HIV. Make an effective, real demonstration tomorrow and not only carry the red bow. Make an express manifestation that HIV is all of us and we all fight against it. [[Applauds]] It will be the best way to reconcile itself with a group that was highly stigmatized. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u220	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u221	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures that the Government intends to take to change the direction of its energy policies and thus direct them to the interests of the Spanish. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u222	Thank you. Good afternoon. We are debating a motion that follows a very simple urgent inquiry, in which we basically propose four questions, four very clear points, which we also call for separate votes so that each of the parties in this House can be portrayed. The points, in short, ask for the following. First, we ask that, since energy policy has a very serious and essential impact on the lives of the Spaniards, on the well-being of the Spaniards, of the families and of the industries, the Spaniards be consulted if they want the government to continue with an energy policy that is really disastrous - and I think I am quite objective - for the economic and industrial question of Spain. Secondly, we call on the Government to implement all possible efforts, whether it is collection of those new taxes that are being invented every day or CO2 collection, that it applies any of these collections to carry out a substantial reduction and in all possible elements of the bill of light that directly impact the well-being of the Spaniards and our industry. Thirdly, we call for the removal of the absurd ban that has been included in the climate change law not only to exploit our natural resources, but also to explore the potential existence of natural resources on Spanish soil; this is absolutely absurd and has an absolute correlation with the price we pay for energy. You think that in the United States, since you have exploited your own natural resources, oil and gas, you have seen a substantial reduction from both. Why? Because when prices rise on the international market, they use their own resources. Ultimately, the exploitation of own resources serves as a buffer to avoid international price fluctuations. Fourthly, we call on the Government to recover that nuclear policy which is really essential for Spain. Nuclear energy is an energy that provides a stable mattress, a constant supply of energy that serves, where appropriate, both to store it by pumping water, and for consumption, once again constant, in all the slots of the day. Spain had a nuclear policy that allowed to expand the nuclear map that we currently have, but both the PP and the PSOE have been restricting, reducing it and even now, in the potential renewals of licensing for the operation of nuclear power plants, the PSOE is refusing to do so. These are perfectly possible issues that require only political will. And I am no longer talking about expanding the nuclear fleet, which is also possible, because in each of the nuclear plants that are located in Spain - not in all, but in almost all - there are areas to install additional reactors. These are areas that are already connected to the network and already have the necessary water supplies to cool. Again, it would only take a small investment in these nuclear power plants, because the main thing, which are expropriations, permits, concessions and connections to the network, is already done. Only political will would be needed, and that does not exist. We ask those four questions. They're simple. By the way, as far as the central of Lemoniz is concerned, we see that neither the Basque Nationalist Party nor the Philo-Etarian Party are present here...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u223	Your Honor, one second, please. I understand the dynamic, perhaps provocative, but I won't admit it, because I couldn't admit it yesterday and because I withdrew it the previous week, that term, as I won't allow the term fascist. [[Protests]] As I know you are not going to withdraw it, I warn you that if you continue to use it, I will withdraw your word by calling you to order three times. So please stick to the issue and please continue with the motion we are on. [[A Member of Parliament: Prevaricator!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u224	Anyway. It's important that everyone listens to it. There is a planned plant, the foundations of which were planted, began to be built, even the refrigeration had been built, which was a cooling through sea water, in Lemoiz, Basque Country, and by political pressures that construction was stopped. All the investment had already been made; millions thrown into the sea. These are four very specific points: to ask the Spaniards, to lower the bill for light, to eliminate the absurd ban on exploring and exploiting our natural resources, and to recover and maintain the nuclear fleet we have in Spain. [[Applauds]] These are very concrete and very simple requests. I think that all the Spaniards who listen to us from their homes will agree with them, and it is important that you understand that if the Socialist Party and Podemos vote against these four points is not for the well-being of the Spaniards, it is not because they believe that you Spaniards will be better off. You do not believe that you will live better with or without these four points; if you vote against this, if you refuse to consult them, if you refuse to lower the bills of light, if you refuse to eliminate that absurd prohibition of exploiting natural resources, if you again refuse to recover and maintain that plan and nuclear park in Spain is only for one reason: for this ideological, dogmatic and almost religious agenda called Agenda 2030. [[Applauds]] All the Socialist Party and Podemos want is to eliminate CO2 emissions. They have decided that CO2 is the devil and, as a good devil, with religious gestures, they try to drive it out of our lives. They are not aware that these CO2 emissions are necessary to produce the cement that builds our houses, to produce the steel that supports the foundations of our buildings, to produce the electrical energy with which we heat ourselves, even when we use the gas with which we heat the water of our houses. CO2 is an element that today is irreplaceable, unless a terrible effort is made. By whom? Who's gonna have to carry out that terrible effort? The Spaniards. You, a farmer in the province of Lérida, will not be able to pull out your tractor. Do you have a pig farm in Tarragona or in Lérida? You will not be able to continue to exploit, because both the Socialist Party and Podemos have decided that you are the enemy. Are you a trucker, transporter? Do you carry the goods that we all consume from one end of Spain to another? You will not be able to start your truck, you will not be able to win the bread, because the Socialist Party and We have decided that your engine is the enemy of the world and that, therefore, who should make the effort to eliminate that CO2 is you, it is not them. They will continue in their seats, sitting quietly, they will have their official cars. [[Applauds]] The test: the synod of climate bishops met in Egypt a few weeks ago and there came all world leaders. How'd it go? In their private aircraft, of course; none went on a rowboat, all were contaminated. They met at a luxury hotel. What did they eat? Meat, of course; they did not eat worms, as they tell us that we should eat. On the contrary, they went there to pontify, sitting on hypocrisy, and decided that diesel vehicles, for example, would have to disappear - that was said by the Socialist Minister of Ecological Transition - from Spain in 2030. There will be no diesel cars, as they have said. So, Spaniards, when you vote against, think about it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u225	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, let them consult with us, let them lower the bill and remove the ban on the exploitation of natural resources, and of course nuclear resources, but the basis is to ask the Spaniards: Do they want the 2030 Agenda or do they want common sense? Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u227	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u228	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Figaredo, I was going to start by saying that motions and non-legislative proposals are becoming more and more loose. You will agree with me, because half of the intervention has been spent filling up time to see what he was doing; of course, this is already repeated from another day, and the truth is that actual content and content that really serves to help the Spaniards did not have. In addition, you have said this in this speech: that for what you have brought - and you will vote for points without looking at amendments or anything - it is for everyone to be portrayed. It does not do so for the Spaniards, so that they pay less or because they really believe in nuclear energy as backup energy, no; they do so for the parties here, of Congress, to be portrayed. The truth is that they would have to take this job that we all have a little more seriously, the responsibility we have. I'll tell you about your motion. In the first point, what they propose is that all Spaniards be consulted so that they can decide what happens to that energy strategy that must lead to our country. Do you know we get paid for that? We are paid to be proactive, to do the control work of the Government and to put on the table and register initiatives here. You always go through the easiest solution; to important, serious and difficult problems to solve, you go through the populist path. They look more and more like Podemos. You want that, through a referendum, which, as you know, has rarely been used here, in our country, problems are solved others. But you are paid to bring real solutions to real problems here and not to get out of the way a point where you really want us to vote for it. We will vote for you not at that point, we have no problem. On the other hand, there is no non-law proposal that you bring here that does not come to deny climate change. You have to be realistic and you have to look at all the scientific reports that exist in order not to lie to the Spaniards, which is what you do here over and over again. You know there are a lot of energies, like hydrogen, that will be part of the solution to this climate change. CO2 emissions must, of course, not be denied. There are other energies, such as nuclear, as you say. We will support the nuclear point, because we believe that this is something that can help at this time of crisis and energy transition as a backup energy. But, really, by removing that point, the rest of the points of the motion seem to us to be loose, very general and really solve nothing. We do want to solve the problems that the Spaniards have in paying for the light, but bring something more concrete, because really the point that says that they are looking for solutions so that the Spaniards pay less for the light is quite general and quite loose. As I say to you, we will only vote in favour of the two points I have commented on, and I ask you, please, to be more responsible in this rostrum because all the Spaniards listen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u229	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, let me sincerely thank Mr Figaredo for his commendable efforts to be here, to come up to the rostrum and personally defend his initiative at a time when his priorities are elsewhere. Thank you very much, José María, for your example. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, with full agreement on the substance of the matter, on the serious energy concerns explained by the spokesman for the VOX Parliamentary Group, which are also broken down into the abundant and detailed explanatory statement that forms part of this parliamentary initiative, I do not agree that a referendum should be used to determine public energy policies. You invoke that this is a matter of special importance, something that is undoubtedly so because energy conditions our whole life and also economic activity, even more so in a country like Spain that has a huge dependence. This, however, is a matter which must be specifically dealt with by the Government and, where appropriate, by the legislative role of the General Courts or by their ability to guide the Government's actions. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that in this matter of politically guiding the action of the Executive we encounter a government that systematically listens deaf to what is proposed and approved both in the Senate and in Congress. It is enough, without leaving the energy policy, that in the very important debate on the state of the nation that took place here last July - the first such feature in many years - the Congress adopted a resolution, number 4, which states: 'Emergently promote the reduction of energy costs for industry by means of long-term measures that extend the security of business investments and allow for stable and predictable costs'. Has the Government done anything to comply with this resolution? Well, nothing. In plenary, ladies and gentlemen, in the same debate on the state of the nation, it was approved that all the necessary mechanisms should be put in place to reverse the dismantling of power generation thermal power plants and to prolong the useful life of nuclear power plants. Has the government done anything? Well, nothing. The Congress also agreed to urge the construction of a centralized nuclear fuel warehouse in Villar de Cañas, Cuenca. Here the Government did something, exactly the opposite of what the House had determined, because this very month of November the centralized temporary warehouse of Villar de Cañas was definitively discarded and the Government announced that it will make seven individual warehouses. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to move forward on the lines outlined by this initiative when it promotes the use of all available technologies to avoid dependence on one, and that the employment and economy of the Spaniards should not be jeopardised, because, apart from this request for public consultation, with which I repeat that I do not agree, the rest of the points contained in this proposal relate to aspects that I fully share. Since Mr Figaredoya announced that he would ask for a separate vote, I will do so in the affirmative because I believe that in the energy field it is essential for Spanish society to reduce an invoice that is conditioning the economy of families, businesses and industry. It is appropriate to remember that Pedro Sánchez committed here, in the investiture, the reduction of the electric bill that, however, has been marking historical peaks for a year and is impoverishing society in an alarming way. VOX's proposal also urges us to explore and exploit our resources to recover energy sovereignty because, as you all know, the government dispensed from coal mining at the end of 2018, in a fateful agreement sponsored by Minister Teresa Ribera, which closed wells and mining operations, as well as power generation thermal power plants. Today we buy dirty electricity from Morocco and in the middle of the war in Ukraine, coal has been imported from Russia. We need the national energy mix to have as little external dependence as possible and that happens, as the motion points out, to recover energy sources that do not depend on third countries. It comes to the case to quote what happened with the purchase of gas from Algeria, after the unexplained Copernican diplomatic turn of Pedro Sánchez in relation to the Sahara. One last point I also agree with is the call to promote nuclear energy, as other European countries like Spain are doing, which are multiplying their fleet of reactors and power plants. In any event, I reiterate that all these energy issues correspond to the government's management obligations and I do not consider them relevant to refer them to a referendum. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u231	Thank you. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u232	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have explained to you so many times that the fact that you are denying climate change to me is that it is almost beginning to give me the same. I think it only shows that you are very far from the feeling of the Spanish, because the Spanish and Spanish are very concerned about the impacts of climate change. They are so visible, so evident, that at this point those who deny them are out of play. In any case, I said it the other day and I say it again today, I think we must follow the dictates of the international community. When U.S. President Donald Trump decided to leave the Paris Agreement, the rest of the world said: "We are moving forward, the U.S. will be back. For the United States has already returned to the Paris Agreement and you, sooner or later, will have to recognize the impacts of climate change and abandon that negationism in which you are so bound, although I do not know the reason, because of course it is not science, science is clear, but a political posture that you will know what it is for. Energy sovereignty is a very serious issue. When I read the title of your motion I thought: see what they propose to increase our energy independence. Your motion really is absolutely disappointing and is in line with how little you are concerned about energy sovereignty, because you have voted against the initiatives this Government has taken in that regard. For example, they voted against the energy saving decree, which is obviously a way to reduce our external dependence, which is very worrying. They also voted against the free provision of rail transport, a measure which has helped to increase the use of rail transport by 30% and reduce private traffic and thus reduce oil consumption. If you analysed the data a little bit and studied a little - but you do little - you would know that in 2006 the energy dependence of our mix was 81%. By 2020, this energy dependency had fallen to 67 per cent. That is, thanks to the measures that have been taken, our energy dependence is shrinking. You know thanks to what? It is precisely thanks to renewable energies, which are the energy sources that are getting our external dependence reduced. However, what are you doing? To push against the climate change law, which is precisely the law that is moving our road map forward to increase our renewable energies. The other day I told him about renewables, but you got so angry because I defended the Communist Party that I think you didn't listen to me. The development of wind power in our country is spectacular, at the moment it is the first source of energy produced with 21% in 2021. Last week renewable energy produced more than 50%, i.e. wind energy produced more than 50% of the total electricity we produce. Photovoltaic solar energy has increased in the last three years by 300 %. All this is due to the measures taken by the Government and this is having an effect on reducing our energy dependence on the outside, which is what we should be concerned about. But I'll tell you one more thing. The sector that depends most on the outside energy is transport, because our main dependence is due to oil. What measures do you propose on the subject of transport? Zero potato. None. They do not care about anything; they do not care about energy dependence, because, if not, they would have proposed measures to reduce oil consumption. But that doesn't matter to you, what matters to you is to defend oligopoly, to defend old forms of energy production, to defend fracking - you go to that rural world, you say to defend, to defend fracking - to defend nuclear. If what they have proposed at the Garoña nuclear power plant, the company itself does not want it; Nuclenor itself has told them that they are not interested in their proposals. That is, you are making proposals that are out of reality, but go on, go on, go on, because I hope that, in fact, people will make you pay for it in the elections, both your climate negationism and your proposals absolutely out of reality and people's needs. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u233	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u234	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a motion resulting from an urgent inquiry with which the People's Parliamentary Group only agrees on the title, as we do not share either the explanatory statement or all the agreements accompanying this motion. It is true that in this motion two things are evident: the first is the normative fanaticism of the Government, which is getting the energy situation in Spain to be the most chaotic and worrying of the last decades, and the second is the energy fanaticism of VOX, which added to the negationism of climate change and its position of international isolation, denying and denouncing all the international agreements of Spain - agreements that we are proud that it was the People's Party that promoted and subscribed them because they focused on Europe -, makes it impossible for us to support this motion. On the basis of these two evidences that I have pointed out to you, once again, we put at the heart of the energy debate the sensible, intelligent, coherent and realistic approaches of the People's Party to the extremists of the Socialist Party and Podemos government and the VOX extremists. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of VOX's autarchy and the chaotic policy of energy and of banning human freedom in the field of the environment and ecological transition, it is - as I said - the path of rationality and energy policy and the fight against climate change, centred on Europe, useful for the citizens and which has achieved the greatest development of renewable energies and the most effective fight against climate change in the history of our country, which is the policy of the People's Party. Focusing on the motion, they're going to allow me to point out and not overlook some VOX claims. The first is that it literally says that energy policies developed in recent decades by successive Spanish governments have multiplied our energy dependence on other countries. This is simply false. [[Applauds]] And, besides being false, it shows the null knowledge of our energy system as a whole. I say this for several reasons, because in recent decades the degree of self-sufficiency in percentages is highest, because in absolute terms the production of primary energy of national origin was the highest in the last thirty years, that is to say, there has never been more indigenous energy in Spain than in 2021, and because the balance on the percentage of GDP in energy is lowest. To these three milestones, Mr López de Uralde and ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the governments of the People's Party have contributed decisively, accounting for the biggest falls in our energy dependence on the outside with the governments of the People's Party. This, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, simply by looking at the data can be verified and there is no need to lie. The second statement is that you say that Spain has the possibility of producing most of the energy required by national demand. The same applies to them as to the first statement, which they do not know about the national energy system, because it is not true either. 42% of Spain's final energy consumption is oil and 25% is gas, and Spain has neither oil nor gas. [[Applauds]] You can't cover the demand either with oil extraction or with fracking, as you defend. But if we look at the government, what is clear is that it cannot be done with desert renewable auctions, with a legislative jam that does not allow the development of a single renewable project, or with measures that promote Russian gas consumption. They are all marks of Mrs. Teresa Ribera's house, but we will not be able to be less dependent on energy, if we add to that what the Socialist Party does when the People's Party brings propositions here. The People's Party has introduced Europe's first hydrogen law, and the Socialist Party and Podemos have voted against it. The People's Party has presented a parliamentary initiative for the development of reversible pumping, and the Socialist Party and Podemos have voted against it. We have put forward an initiative to develop large-scale energy storage, and the Socialist Party and Podemos have voted against it. And when they start copying our energy plan, they just do it to pieces. We see the same pattern again: the government's fanatical veto on sensible initiatives and an energy model of VOX away from reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party's energy and climate change model is to be the precursors and signatories to the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. We are the party that auctioned 9000 megawatts of renewables and that are the ones that are now being put into operation and that the government of Pedro Sánchez presumes, because when their auctions are made - those of the socialist government and of Podemos - they are deserted because investors do not trust their government, do not trust you. We are the party that left the Russian gas and had the cheapest energy prices in recent years, in front of the government with which we depend more than ever on Russia and with which we pay the most expensive energy in history. Ladies and gentlemen - I finish, President - the energy transition and the policy in general that citizens need and demand from us is the one that moves away from the extremes that you defend. In the face of extremism, today more than ever, the wisdom and policies that work, which are those of the People's Party and those of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u235	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u236	Thank you, President. Radicalism, fanaticism, climate religion, declarations of love for CO2, today the truth is that VOX has been overcome. I want to give you a little bit, a year ago a study was published at the University of Cornell that analyzed scientific publications, scientific articles on climate change and found something interesting. In recent years, twenty-eight scientific articles have been published and reviewed that are skeptical of climate change, that question whether it exists or is caused by man - twenty-eight that coincide with you -. Look, it's 28 items out of a total of 88,125. [[Show a chart]] See? These are all the scientific articles that support man's effect on climate change, and this stripe here - which, by the way, I had to expand because it was so finite that it wasn't seen, so it's not on a scale, it's ten times wider - is where you live. [[applause]] You come up here constantly and proclaim, as if it were a cry of war, that only VOX remains. In fact, there's only VOX left in there. They're more alone than one. [[Applauds]] More nuclear, more oil, more natural gas, more fossil fuels, more emissions, these desirable CO2 emissions that Mr Figaredo considers. I understand you'd like the world to go or go that way, but you don't realize that your time machine doesn't work and it's never going to work. What are they asking us for? We are asked for a referendum, a public consultation on energy policy, here the adalides of democracy. Any day we see them behind a banner to the scream of wanting to vote, so, let's go carefully. [[Laughter]] Being They, they were wrong in letter and want to vote would be 'we want butane', also on the other hand. [[Laughter]] But look, there are consultations that are usually called elections and, therefore, in Spain there is a progressive government and you are the ones who are and are where you are. They ask how many measures are needed to reduce electricity, and I wonder: what cave have they lived in the last year, where were they hidden? That is precisely what this progressive government has been doing, and that is precisely why - it has taken another graph so that I can not be lost - Spain is one of the only two countries in the European Union that during the last year has managed to lower electricity prices - Eurostat, I do not say -. [[shows a graph]] [[Applauds]] Moreover, linked to this - the news is today - precisely this reduction in electricity prices has made Spain the country of the euro area where inflation has moderated most. But what are you doing? They are basically voting against all these measures that are working and that are putting us where we are, making progress even at this time of difficulty. To you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP - by the way, today I thank you for the moderation you have had, it has surprised me - I will tell you one thing: let him look at it. Let him look at it because VOX, the extreme right, is the symptom, but you are the real problem. [[Rumors]] Yes, they are because they legitimize their attacks, they are because they tolerate their insults, they are because they copy their expressions and they are because they buy their speech. Gentlemen of the PP, VOX without you is nothing and you would have to dedicate songs. [[Applauds]] This motion of VOX is about energy, but it doesn't matter, because it could be equal, it could be education, immigration, work, social policies, whatever it was, because they have them cut to pattern; they are all the same, they are bulls, lies, falsehoods, demagogy, data manipulated to, then, make regressive proposals, ultra-liberal, ultra-nightly. Measures against the people of the street, in favour of the rich and the powerful, as when they vote against an extraordinary tax on banking and big energy. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens - there are only a few left in the Chamber too - indeed why do they legitimise this speech by tabling an amendment to this motion for a VOX? Do they really make sense of what they're doing? Please think about it. From the right we are always told that our measures are ideological and consider that to say that an insult, I suppose it depends on ideology. There are endless differences between you and us. One of them is that we are not ashamed of our ideology, and we say it and call it by its name: we are socialists. The right is never called right to itself and the far right especially uses all kinds of adjectives not to use its true name, they deny the name, but not the ideology. If it looks like a duck, if nothing like a duck, it's probably a duck. Our political action is ideological, of course, left-wing and we will never hide it. We are socialists and our policies are and will always be socialists. We fight for equality, for justice, for solidarity. We defend public services, public health, public education, public pensions. We make the welfare state grow. We defend equality, we defend feminism, dignity. And we do it and we will always do it in front of people like you, those who attack in a subtle and veiled way all these principles and those who attack in a frontal way. I told them there are endless differences between us...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u237	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u238	Finished. There are infinite differences, but it's much more than that. It's not that we're different, it's that we're exactly the opposite of you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u240	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-30-CD221130.u241	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended. It was four and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
