ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Spain rises today dismayed by the shipwreck of the Galician fishing village Villa de Pitanxo on the coast of Canada. The Congress of Deputies wants to join in the grief of the relatives and friends of the deceased and show their support and encouragement to the relatives of the disappeared in such a tragic accident. Therefore, I ask you to remain silent for a minute. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u2	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u3	Madam President, we join in the dismay of all family members of the fishing industry and hope that emergency services will be able to find the missing. Mr. Sanchez, I have to wish you a happy new year, because you haven't been here for two months. In these weeks he has had time to lose other elections, and he already has four since he was appointed President of the Government. In three of them, there has been a third political force, behind their partners on the far left and the nationalists, and this has made traps with all the instruments of the state: with the CIS of Tezanos, with the BOE of public investments to the finger, and even with the European funds to the letter of the socialist governments; but not with those. This isn't new. When you landed in Moncloa - never better said - you put a socialist state attorney general; then you renewed the Council of State without agreement for the first time in history and tried to do the same with the General Council of the Judiciary; then you faced the Constitutional Court with alarm decrees; then, the Supreme Court, when you told him that you could not pardon the separatist prisoners to remain in power; and you even used this Parliament to impose decrees against the will of the parliamentary majority. But the most serious thing is that I use prison institutions to negotiate with a killer of thirteen innocents in exchange for Bildu's vows to remain in Moncloa. The question is why you voted against yesterday of an initiative to ban tributes and prison benefits to non-cooperating states in clarifying their terrible crimes. When is it going to stop using and deteriorating state institutions? Answer me: Are you with the victims or with the executioners? We're with the victims, are you? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u4	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, not helping to degrade the institutions also means responding with education and good manners to their improvisations and insults. [[Applauds]] I will tell you that our democracy, like any democracy, is a perfectable democracy, but it is clear that we can all contribute to improving that democracy. I believe that our democracy would be much better, healthier, stronger, if you complied with the Constitution and unlocked the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary; if you did not go to Brussels to speak ill of Spain and to sow doubts about the management of European funds; if you did not use transfugas to try to win votes or to overthrow governments in certain autonomous communities; and, of course, also if you did not infuse the results of the votes in the General Courts, calling into question the report of an autonomous professional body such as that of the lawyers or questioning the work of the President of the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u6	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u7	Look, Mr Sánchez, if even The Economist says that since you ruled Spanish democracy has become more imperfect! You don't answer anything we're telling you, but I will. On the General Council of the Judiciary, we renew it today if you comply with the European Union and let the judges choose the judges. That simple. [[Applauds]] But it's extremely serious what you're doing. Let's see, what do you mean, congressional lawyers? Have you read four panels of lawyers in this House saying that a Member's right to change his or her vote has been violated since he or she issues it telematically until the plenary session is held face-to-face? [[Applauds]] Say it clearly, are you with the victims or with the executioners? We never agreed with them because we couldn't sleep peacefully. Does that ring a bell? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u8	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we must comply with the Constitution and the law. That is what you must do, unlock and be able to produce the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary over the coming months. We have been blocking the General Council of the Judiciary for more than 1170 days because you are in breach of the Constitution. Your Honor, all those insults and chrispation you're used to every time you're in the General Courts... [[rumors]] What moved him after February 13th is the following reflection. The time of truth has come for you, Mr. Married, let us make it clear; the time of truth has come for you. You have to decide whether to open the doors to a People's Party government with the ultra-right or not. You, Your Honor, set up a trap... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u10	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u11	...and now he's trapped. You'd like other political parties to get you out of that trap you've got yourself into. We, because we take the far right seriously, are willing to help, but you have to do the following. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u13	First of all, you have to ask for help. Secondly, it has to explain why the ultra-right cannot enter the governments and, thirdly, it also has to tell us whether it is for every day,, whether it is forever and in all territories. [[Several Members: Bildu!]] [[protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u14	Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, you must respect the use of the floor. They can't be interrupting permanently. [[Rumors]] - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO TAKE TO TERMINATE WITH THIS ENERGY DEPENDENCE THAT IS POVERTYING SPAIN AND RUNNING THE SPAIN? [[File number 180/000783]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u15	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u16	Good morning. Let's go to the real problems of the Spaniards. Mr Sánchez, what measures will your Government take to put an end to the energy dependence that impoverishes Spain and that is ruining the Spanish? Because we have the feeling that your government, your party and your partners have lost contact with the street, that they are not in the markets, in the neighborhoods, in the bars. Because if they were, they'd know that people don't care about digital ethic citizenship, color zebra steps, gender-based mathematics... People are worried about access to housing, having a stable job, being able to form a family and being able to pay the bill for electricity and gas, Mr Sánchez. The Spaniards are sick of losing purchasing power, of living worse than other generations, of living worse than their parents and you only offer misery and despair when you should offer certainties. Since 2020 with you inflation has risen by 6%; electricity has risen by 46%; butane by 47%; gasoline by 23%; diesel by 25%. Spain has lost its energy sovereignty with you at the head of the government and you will say it is a global problem, but there are different ways to captivate the temporal. In Germany you have put your money on gas, in France you are going to build fourteen nuclear reactors, the European Union - which you always obey, now it seems not - has just declared green gas and nuclear energy and other countries to which you are so critical - like Poland - have ended up with VAT so that families can pay the electricity and gas bill. You bet on a decrement model and frivolities in the meantime. Its model is the deindustrialization of the interior Spain, the criminalization of diesel and the manufacture of vehicles in Spain, the blasting of thermal power plants such as Velilla del Río Carrión in Palencia, the closure of nuclear power plants such as the Garoña nuclear power plant and the gift of gas - which is needed for the Spanish families - to the satrap of Morocco. That is, their model is business that closes because they can't even lift the blind and families that can't warm up in winter because they can't pay the energy bill. Their energy transition is a thyme that shows once again that when communists and socialists are in power, families suffer, the humble suffer, the popular classes suffer and the middle classes suffer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u17	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you've talked about mathematics and the gender perspective. I want to inform you that a young man has been arrested for murdering a 14-year-old girl in Alcala la Real. Therefore, talking about a gender perspective when we are talking about education is essential, precisely in order not to frivolize with the gender-based violence suffered by many boys and girls as well. [[Applauds]] A few days ago I saw him with several European leaders and leaders. I saw you with Viktor Orbán, I saw you with Le Pen, I saw you also with the Polish Prime Minister and other leaders who are reference for your party and for you. Viktor Orbán - you don't know sesi - amended a law precisely to identify homosexuality with pedophilia. He has raised in the elections that will take place in a few weeks' time a referendum against homosexuality, linking it to illness. Le Pen is calling for France to leave the European Union, the euro. And I also saw him a few weeks ago with Bolsonaro, who, as we all know well, is a political leader for anti-vaccines and who, without a doubt, also questions climate change on the planet, not only in our country. This is the question, Your Honor, you deny reality, you ignore what science says. You do not, for example, go to Glasgow, to the Conference of the Parties related to climate change, and listen to what the Secretary-General of the United Nations said that humanity is using nature as a toilet. And all the predictions that science is making right now are pointing out that, in very few years, we will be above two and a half degrees. We must therefore make an effort among all to ensure that this energy transition is fair, so that the young people of today and tomorrow can receive a habitable planet and, no doubt, to ensure that territories and people are not harmed by this energy transition. In this is the Government of Spain, Your Honor; you are at something else, in denying science, in denying evidence, in denying the future not only to young people but also to the territories; quite the opposite of what this Government is doing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u19	Mr. Abascal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u20	Mr. Sanchez, the bill for light, gas and diesel. Less demagogy. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT IT IS COMPLETED WITH THE SOCIAL OBJECTIVES OF THE LEGISLATION COVENANT? [[File number 180/00781]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u21	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President. Do you believe that the government, which your government, is fulfilling the objectives of the legislature pact? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u23	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, thank you for your question. I believe that yes, I believe that with difficulties, in a context as complex as the one we are experiencing that is unprecedented in the history of humanity over the last hundred years, which is that of a global pandemic, with successes, but also with many errors, thanks also to the support of your lords, of the parliamentary majority of these General Courts, the Government is complying with its road map, which is, first of all, logically, to respond to the pandemic and, secondly, to propitiate all these transformations precisely in order to achieve a better future and prosperity for our country. The data is there: we have more than 90% of the vaccinated population with a full schedule; we have more than 20 million people employed; we have an unemployment rate that we had in our country, not before the pandemic but before the 2008 financial crisis. Finally, I believe that we have European funds that can propel this leap in the modernization of our productive fabric to make our growth much more environmentally, socially, economically and fiscally sustainable. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u25	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, now that no one hears us, I think you have two great temptations for what is left of the legislature. The first is that the wolf eats at PP, that VOX eats at PP. I understand that and, in fact, I think they make it easy for them. Every time I see Mr. Married in Burgos, behind four cows, talking about the ETA, chops and Republican Esquerra, I think: How good it will be for Mr. Sánchez in the Moncloa! But for what? I insist, for what? For what? To end up with 70 or 80 deputies of VOX? To have Mrs. Ayuso in front of you, instead of Mr. Married? For what? What's that for, Mr. Sanchez? You have to understand that the wolf will bite, it will always bite, so will you. And secondly, we suspect that you have the temptation to let go of the opportunity of the dialogue and negotiation table - it is a suspicion that we have - because it also wears us out. We say it again and we say it again to the whole bench on the left, who believes that if the table doesn't work only harms or wears independence, he is wrong. The failure of the negotiating table is also a failure of the Spanish left, too. And every time the Spanish left fails, man, we don't get hurt, but above all it governs or ends up ruling the right, and in this case the far right, in Moncloa. So, Mr President, please, I ask you, I demand, one, to put left-wing policies on the table - and that is not a job reform applauded by Ana Patricia Botín - to put left-wing policies. And, two, face the political conflict with Catalonia because maybe that's the only way to avoid packing in Moncloa. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u27	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I am not happy with the rise of the ultra-right in my country, no, I am not happy; moreover, yesterday I offered the Socialist Party's abstention to the People's Party in Castile and León, if I broke the agreements with the ultra-right, not for today, and not depending on the territory, but forever and in all the territories of our country. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Your Honor, something always happens to the sovereignist left when it tries to give lessons to the Spanish left. I'm going to do it in a few days fifty years; no one gives me a left card and less you, ladies and gentlemen, and less you. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u29	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u30	To say that labour reform is a labour reform that Albert Rivera would have agreed as vice president of the government is not an insult to the Government of Spain, it is an insult to the unions, to the General Workers' Union and to the Workers' Commissions, which signed precisely that agreement. [[Applauds]] You, perhaps, consider yourself more to the left of the General Union of Workers and Workers' Commissions. It's not my case. They gave an example of patriotism and we thank them. Thirdly, of course we will always be in the hands of that dialogue table, as we are also in the hands of the bilateral committee, which is to meet this Friday. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u31	Thank you very much. Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GALVAN ERJON, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTERED Vice-President FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO PROTECT DIAN? [[File number 180/000779]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, what steps will the Government take to protect Doñana?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u33	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u34	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for asking me this question. We will continue to work in the same line of firmness and defense of legality as we have been doing, and I take advantage of your question to claim the responsible reaction on the part of the institutions. It is unacceptable, it is outrageous to use falsehood and lies to destroy something that is the heritage of humanity, such as Doñana. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u35	Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As you know perfectly well, Doñana is not only the main natural park of Andalusia, it is the most important of Spain, the largest reserve of the biosphere of our country and the heritage of humanity, according to Unesco. In any country in the world such a treasure would be very protected and yet in Spain it is seriously threatened, because last week the Andalusian Parliament, with the votes in favour of the People's Party, of VOX and of Citizens and with the abstention of the Socialist Party, supported, took the first step for a very serious thing, which was basically to give free bar to the illegal wells that are drying Doñana. This is an irresponsibility, it is basically tightening the accelerator, in a context of climate emergency and persistent drought, for the destruction of the park. We already know how it ends, we've seen it in the Sea Minor and it ends fatal. It's simply an ecocide. The problem with this, Madam Vice-President, is that governments and Members are passing through, we are all replaceable, but nature is not; the land is the only thing that is irreplaceable and that is why it really matters. Madam Minister, if ecocide is consumed, in addition to everything, Spain can face daily fines from the Court of Justice of the European Union, farmers who do comply with the rules can be subjected to a comparative aggravation and, moreover, this can harm the external image of Spanish agricultural products. Basically, what's going on, Minister, is that we're taking over our country. Yesterday was the Mar Menor, today is Doñana, and on this road we will turn Spain into an immense desert. Therefore, we ask you not to calculate in this, to set foot on a wall in this, and to be firm, sharp. The Government must do absolutely everything in its power to prevent an irresponsible shortcut from killing Doñana. We ask them to commit themselves to curbing illegal wells and contamination of aquifers; we ask them to commit themselves to a buffer zone that will allow the park to be regenerated and to provide all resources to the Guadalquivir Hydrographic Confederation, simply and simply to ensure that the rules are met in Doñana. What we're playing is that our children know Donana, and not just the history books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u37	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u38	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I thank you very much for joining the efforts of the Spanish Government in this direction and for doing so in line with what the Unesco and the European Commission demanded, which yesterday recalled that you are ready to go as far as it takes to curb this barbarity, this immense illegality promoted by the People's Party, Citizens and VOX. We do not want to see ourselves in the situation where Poland has been seen, which does not have access to the funds precisely because of the failure to comply with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, something that would probably apply to Spain in the case of Doñana if that initiative were to continue. However, it is a lie, as I said before, it is impossible, unless they expropriate the water rights of legal regents, because there is simply no water. They are hiding their inability to respond to the economic diversification needs of that area. I will list some of the issues that seem to me to be the most important of which we are pushing. The declaration of water mass at risk from the aquifer allows us to create a community of users that adopts by consensus exceptional measures to be able to monitor compliance with all legal requirements and water volumes; we work closely with the prosecutor's office; we seek to strengthen inspection and sanction with the closure of one hundred and forty-one wells in processing; we activate hydraulic works to allow surface water to be used and that the legal risks that use groundwater can be curbed; we seek zero growth in irrigation, as reflected in the Guadalquivir Hydrological Plan, and we promote nine actions in nine purification stations that end up pouring water into areas of influence of Doñana. There are 177 million in the Guadalquivir Hydrological Plan whose approval is immediate, in the coming months. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: DO YOU CONSIDER THAT IT IS A CRUCIAL TIME TO GIVE COHERENCE TO THE NATURAL NETWORK 2000 IN COLLABORATION WITH THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000789]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u39	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u40	Good morning, Minister. I ask you if you think this is a crucial time to give more coherence to the Natura 2000 network. I am saying this because we are at a time when, of course, many renewable energy installations have to be projected and, at the same time, we are at a time of important climate change which is affecting many parts of the country. The Natura 2000 Network has proved to be a very important element in preserving ecosystems, but its LICs and ZEPAs are still, today, a small archipelago of islands, and it is essential to maintain ecological connectivity, ecological corridors that facilitate species migration, geographical distribution, and maintain the ecosystem. You know, and many years have passed, Article 10 of the Habitats Directive, which calls for greater coherence. Now we are at a time when there is a presentation of wind and solar projects that far exceed the needs that the Government itself has projected for the year 2030 for Spain and we have to decide on their implementation and on the places. I believe that the Natura 2000 network cannot be ignored, but with these ecological corridors. Because if we have to do this, we have to do it right, and what we cannot mortgage, with the decisions that can now be made with regard to these projects, the coherent and crucial development that truly gives sustainability to what the Natura 2000 Network means. Therefore, I think it would be interesting - I don't know what you think and I would like to know your opinion - to move forward in parallel when it comes to realising those corridors. You know that there have been institutions and agencies that have made some reports. For example, there is a very extensive one of the Polytechnic University of Madrid above all the State. I believe that on the basis of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act of 2007, which gives the Autonomous Communities, and also something to the Government, the possibility of developing all this, in Euskadi, recently an important law has been passed, Law 9/2021, on the conservation of the natural heritage of Euskadi, which speaks of all these corridors. I believe that, with the help of the autonomous communities, you must develop this entire network of connectors, but you must take this into account when authorizing possible wind, solar, etc. energy projects. And if that's what it's for...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u42	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Esteban, we share that concern and the need to work intensively on the protection of the two major objectives: biodiversity and climate, just as we would reach the Constitutional Court, yes - I hope never, because I hope you will withdraw it - that law of the Andalusian Parliament that threatens Doñana will be passed. We believe that it is important to work in advance for the connectivity of these green corridors, for the full implementation of the Habitats Directive and for the fulfilment of our commitment that at least 30% of our territory has some form of protection, both on land and at sea. We are close to having 27% of the territory of Red Natura in surface space, and we have reached about 12%, 15%, that is, still well below the target, in terms of protecting our seas. And yet, much remains to be done and it is true that we must reconcile with a transformation of the energy system, which is the least affected by the environment and the lowest operating costs. It is best for the citizens of today and tomorrow from the energy point of view, from the point of view of stability, predictability and prices - and I respond to Mr Abascal's previous comment -. I would like to point out that the joint work between the two administrations is indeed key. We are doing so and, moreover, I believe that we are doing so with great satisfaction on the part of the two governments, and I believe that we must continue to make progress. Just as in the development of wind and photovoltaic parks the reports of the council are key and have determined that there is a declaration of negative environmental impact in one of the planned parks, we work on offshore wind in the Basque Country so that this can also be done in the best way and in the most respectful way for the marine environment. I believe that the combination of protection, biodiversity, ecological corridors, integration of species and spaces with that line of preservation of our natural capital and, at the same time, an orderly, responsible deployment and within the limits of what we need in renewables is capital, by the way, avoiding large lines of high voltage parallel to the planning of Electric Network thinking that you can evacuate that electricity that is produced in a site hundreds of kilometers away. However, the promoters are entitled to a procedural guarantee and we will have to deal step by step with all that excess of projects, all that accumulation of projects, which at the moment makes us all feel somewhat overwhelmed by the processing that it requires at the various levels of the Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - QUESTION OF THE DEVELOPED DON IÑAKI RUIZ DE PINEDO UDIANO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS THE THIRD AND MINISTRY-FREE VICE-President OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: SHALL THE GOVERNMENT SHARE THE DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION TO CONSIDER NUCLEAR AS 'Green' ENERGY? [[File number 180/000793]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u43	Question by Mr Iñaki Ruiz from Pinedo Undiano, from the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u44	Good morning, Minister. It must be made clear: it is extremely serious for the European Commission to classify nuclear energy as green energy; it contradicts the basic principles for the ecological transition, for climate neutrality; it is against European public opinion, against the movements that are fighting for ecological rights; it is against such a deep-rooted antinuclear culture in Europe, in the State and especially in Euskal Herria. In order to arrive at the current scenario of starting to rule out nuclear energy we have had to go a long way, a great road of struggles, of work, of research, of miserable world accidents that have occurred in this regard. There have already been steps towards denuclearization, steps that now, suddenly, by a decision of the economic community, can be taken back. Through an investment recommendation document, the European executive authorities intend to hear the voices and calls made by scientists and scientists and leave in the hands of energy clusters, which are based on their business interests, expansion and investment in nuclear energy. Public financing for the nuclear business, that is one of the most important keys to the taxonomy decree that is currently under way, because if nuclear energy and gas begin to be financed as green energy, the resources for the energy transition will be diverted to these energy sources. We are at real risk of slowing down the energy transition. Mrs Ribera, you have been critical of this decision vis-à-vis other European states. We believe he is aware of the risks this poses to the present and above all to the future of the energy transition. That is why today we would like a clear and firm commitment from this Government. Does the Government share the European Commission's decision to consider nuclear energy as green energy?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u45	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u46	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that we have been absolutely clear and clear in public and in private. This Government believes that the European Commission is making a mistake by amending the proposal of the Platform on Sustainable Finance to integrate nuclear energy and gas. We believe that it is important to understand where this taxonomy proposal comes from, which dates back to work more than ten years ago seeking how to give clear indications to investors about what technologies favour rapid decarbonisation without creating any significant environmental risk to the environment, and for this reason investment experts have ruled out including new gas infrastructures and new nuclear infrastructures on this list with positive discrimination. This does not prevent anyone who wants to be able to invest in new infrastructure. In fact, existing infrastructure is likely to help bridge the current energy model to the future. But it is a huge mistake to confuse investors and public opinion by calling what is not green. Moreover, in our case, I believe that economic, industrial, business and investment realities favour us. That is why we are convinced that we must continue to apply that list of taxonomy proposed by the Platform on Sustainable Finance and, in this way, differentiate ourselves from what the Commission's proposal would be today, if it were to move forward. Why? Because in reality we are positioned to attract that capital, that investment, that which we really need: more renewable, more efficiency, green hydrogen, renewable gases; that is, those technologies that really favour decarbonisation. We believe that this step that the Commission has taken is controversial and can therefore lead to litigation before the Court of Justice of the European Union and that delays the messages to investors. It is controversial because it can confuse third countries who understand that they can then also qualify as green anything else and we believe that it does not help, as I say, to encourage the greatest amount of resources to be directed, precisely without any risk to investors, to that which favours rapid decarbonisation. However, as I say, this does not prevent anyone who wants from continuing to invest with the technology they want. Don't call it green, please. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u47	Mr. Ruiz de Pinedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u48	Minister, we share your rejection. I am only going to ask you one thing, that your current position of nuclear power does not, does not become nuclear power, not nuclear power. Keep your posture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u49	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u50	Thank you very much. I think we have a closing schedule agreed between the actors. I believe that we are making investments with the horizon and perspective they deserve, and I am very grateful that there is consensus on this in this Chamber, if any. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT WILL THE EUROPEAN FUNDS BE TO ECONOMIC GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT IN 2022? [[File number 180/000787]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u51	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u52	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, you told us that the European funds would generate additional growth of 2.6 points, and the truth is that they have contributed virtually nothing so far, just 3 tenths according to the Bank of Spain. We already know that you give the same eight to eighty, but let's see if for once you are able to commit to an estimate and fulfill it. The question is: what will be the contribution of European funds to economic growth and employment this year? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u53	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u54	Thank you very much, President. Look, European funds - the Recovery Plan - are an extraordinary opportunity for our country to, together with investments and reforms - together, in a 2021-2026 plan, increase potential growth by more than 2%. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u55	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u56	Potential growth, Madam Vice President? The only growth that Spanish families are seeing is inflation. I don't know if you know for what you give today 20 euros when you go to a supermarket or what it costs to fill the gas tank. But I ask you this question because of the lack of transparency that surrounds everything related to European funds, because you intentionally confuse, recognition of obligations and payments made with execution. And what you did in December is compromise fast and running all the payments. But how much money has actually reached the SME and the self-employed? Why has the State intervention ceased to publish the data since August? Perhaps, Madam President, because we will discover that money is not reaching the business fabric? Give us the data, because you have it. Look, Vice-President, so that European funds really generate economic growth and employment should be managed and controlled independently and professionally, thinking of the general interest, not in the particular interest of the absent President Sánchez. The rest of the administrations should be allowed to join together from partnership, not from accession, as you are obliged to do. It should be made easier for them to reach all of our productive fabric and not just the pocket of friends or family members, and have the sole objective of modernizing our business fabric and not paying for the votes that are needed to follow in the Moncloa. Otherwise, if you do it as badly in the year 2022 as you did in the year 2021, the only recovery, robust but unfair, that will occur will be that of your family economy, because you will already tell the Spaniards how it is possible to increase - this is happening - the business of the company in which your husband works, which, oh, what a coincidence!, is authorized agent in the brokering of European funds, which depend on the ministry and on you. A small conflict of interest has you with the funds! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u57	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u58	Thank you very much, President. The best expectations that have been generated with the Recovery Plan have already had a positive impact on the Spanish economy in 2021. In 2022 we will reach the cruising speed in the deployment of investments and reforms, which, as I said, will allow us not only a strong recovery in the short term, but a modernization of our country in the medium or long term. That is why we are committed to green investments, digital investments, improving social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. We have no time to waste and that is why Spain has been the first country to receive a payment. We are accelerating reforms and investments and promoting co-governance with the autonomous communities, which have a key role to play in the deployment of these investments throughout the territory. And what do you do? To boycott the plan inside and outside, to try to cast doubt despite the immense effort of transparency that we are doing improving the instruments of the website and going to Congress every quarter - now I will also go to the Senate - and, above all, to rely on absolutely unfounded personal attacks and slanders. By the way, sir, you should be a little better informed about how administrative procedures work before you join that kind of slander. [[Applauds]] But this is what they have been doing for three and a half years because they have no reason or argument to oppose our economic policy. Look, Your Honor, from the government we have been doing serious work, responsible work, which is supported by all international agencies. Today, the International Monetary Fund validates our reformist agenda and supports the labor reform to which you opposed, which you knew was essential for the next payment corresponding to the Recovery Plan. This is the strategy we are going to follow because we are a responsible government, a serious government. And I ask you once again to stop boycotting the Recovery Plan and try to think about the general interest of Spanish citizens, who will bet on a better future for the next generations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT UNABLE TO FIGHT AGAINST INFLATION? [[File number 180/000784]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u59	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the Spanish have suffered more than any other country in Europe from the economic consequences of their government in at least three ways. The first, in no other country have the income of families fallen as much as in Spain as it did as a result of their action. Secondly, in no other country has the fiscal pressure risen as it has risen in Spain; the Spanish remember more and more of the four times that the Minister of Finance lied when he said here - four times - that they will not raise taxes. And thirdly, no other country has been so slow and citizens have had to see such a lack of management in support of families, SMEs and self-employed people. Fall of income, plus taxes and zero aid. And in case that were not enough, there is now a fourth factor, which is inflation; that is, the rise in the price of the commodities consumed by the Spaniards. Inflation is a phenomenon that you called transitory, but it is consolidating at the highest rates since the twentieth century. Yesterday we knew that price escalation was 6.1%. This means that, above the three factors with which you are making the Spaniards suffer, this fourth is depriving the Spaniards of 6% of their scarce savings; that is, the Spaniards are 6% poorer than last year as a result of their management. It's an invisible tax, it's a way of stealing from the Spanish 6%, and you remember each time you pay the bill for the light, you pay the gasoline or you pay the heating; I assure you that you remember a lot of you. What are you going to do to fight inflation? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u61	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u62	Thank you very much, President. The response we have given to the pandemic, from the point of view of the economic and social agenda, has been effective; it has been effective in protecting businesses, in protecting employment, in protecting the incomes of families and in allowing us to have a very different way out of this crisis and a strong recovery, as we are seeing, with an intense job creation, which can only be described as extraordinary. But you are right, I am very concerned about the rise in energy prices and that is why we are taking short-term measures to cushion the impact on families and businesses, measures that, by the way, are going to lower taxes, just the opposite of what you say we are doing; measures that, in addition, are trying to motivate and drive a European response to a problem that is obviously global, since inflation and rising energy prices are a phenomenon in the field of international markets, especially in gas markets. And we are also driving the ecological transition, which is what will allow us to have the cleanest, cheapest possible energy as soon as possible and strengthen our strategic autonomy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u63	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u64	Mrs Calviño, I think things are going great for you, but not as well as for the Spanish. You are talking about unemployment and inflation and that this is a global problem. Well, look, when you add the unemployment rate to the inflation rate, what you get is the so-called poverty rate - more unemployment - and there are quite intelligent economists who compare countries around the world, not just the European Union, and make a table of the thirty-five most advanced countries in the world where they measure the poverty rate: I stop more inflation. You lower your head because you know who number one is on that table, right? It's Spain. Spain is the country that has the worst index of misery, I stop more inflation. To combat inflation, there are other countries which have taken measures, which have lowered taxes, such as Poland, which have withdrawn VAT, etc. What are you guys gonna do? Increase the collection, as always. We will not go forward until you leave this government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u65	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u66	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, there are two things that surprise me most of all about your intervention. The first is to talk about unemployment and try to minimize the importance of last year's drop of more than three points in the overall unemployment rate, of nine points in the youth unemployment rate and the fact that we are having an economic recovery that has allowed us to reach a rate of 13.3% and more than 20 million employed people, figures that we have not had since before no longer of the pandemic, but of the financial crisis that began in 2008. The recovery of the labour market is extraordinary and this is due to the measures we have taken in this regard. And the second thing that surprises me is that you continue to take Poland as an example when, frankly, it is a country that has serious democratic shortcomings, serious shortcomings from the point of view of respect for minorities - the President has already spoken before the attitude of those governments, for example, with LGBT people - and, therefore, it is a country that I believe cannot be an example from any point of view, even less from the point of view of energy autonomy and the evolution of prices, the indicators of equality or the social welfare of its population. [[Applauds]] These two things surprise me, but, I insist, Your Honor, the important thing is to have a responsible and focused government that interests the Spaniards, and that is what we are doing: driving economic growth, driving the creation of quality jobs and trying to cushion the impact of the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u67	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: SHARE THE SECOND SECOND SECOND THESE TAX SUBSIDY FOR WORKERS? [[File number 180/000788]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u68	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u69	Mrs. Díaz, I'm going to give you a real data. On Sunday, the citizens of Castile and León punished their management and left in half the deputies to their party, from two to one. This will be known as the Yolanda Díaz effect. Why? Because the Spaniards are worse today than when you came to the government. Any worker's inflation costs 130 euros, filling the deposit 15 euros more and in each home an average of 50 euros more light is being paid. And the self-employed, Mrs. Díaz, what have the self-employed done to you so that you are doing this to those people, who get up every morning and who will have to pay for working with taxes? Mrs. Díaz, I've always wanted to ask you this question. When I give you this information about the suffering the Government is bringing to families, do you feel anything or once they are in the Government are already insensitive to suffering? Because they have made it difficult for all Spanish families, except those of their friends, to move forward. Everything you touch, Mrs. Díaz, leaves it in half, except the taxes that the Spaniards pay. So, do you share the tax increase proposed by your government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u70	Madam Vice-President Monday.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u71	Your Honor, what I share is that in my country the tax escalation referred to in Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution applies once and for all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u72	Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u73	I understand that it is very difficult to defend such an incompetent government that makes families suffer so much, but at least respond; respond. I'll give you another piece of information. Six counts of the Equality Council of her partner and friend Mrs. Oltra have been charged with the serious case of child abuse. I haven't heard you say anything yet. So brave, so much so that you face and face the problems, say something. Do you agree with this? All day long talking about transparency, accountability, social justice, but to the first change, what does the courageous vice president do? Look somewhere else. Citizens, Mrs. Díez, are taking the measure, that's happening to you, that's the Yolanda Díaz effect. European funds, for whom are they? For the municipalities of the PSOE and for Mrs. Calviño's husband. That is the social justice of the Government, the Yolanda Díaz effect. Today, the Yolanda Díaz effect comes to the countryside and farmers come out on the street against you because in Spain it is easier to occupy a house than to water the countryside. That's the Yolanda Díaz effect! [[Applauds]] With you, the Spaniards have a hybrid salary: half goes to pay for gas and the other half to pay for light. That's the Yolanda Díaz effect. Mrs Díaz, you can say a lot of things but there is only one reality, that today in Spain the difficulties of the Spaniards rise to the rate at which their credibility and that of this government declines. Therefore, Mrs Díaz, your credibility is crumbling and that of the Government too. That's the Yolanda Díaz effect. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u74	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u75	Mr. García Aegean, you seem to be quite unserious and play with people's lives. They've been telling the Spanish government for two years that our policies are bad for the economy and people. Look, we just heard you say that raising the interprofessional minimum wage is negative for our country. I simply ask you a question, Mr. García Aegean, which side are you on? Because it is obvious that of those who earn the minimum interprofessional wage at 1000 euros, no. You are on the side of those who earn more than 150,000 euros in our country. But look, Mr. García Aegean, the data doesn't help you, because we have 20.2 million occupied in our country, as we've never had before. We have - as the self-employed are concerned - 105,000 self-employed more than before the crisis. In suggestion of your financial crisis, Mr García Eggea, we lost 551,000 autonomous people. Or, for example, we have created 840 700 jobs in our country. I know this is bad news for you. And since you're talking about taxes, I am going to give you data, Mr. García Aegean. To you, those of tax populism, I will tell you that talking about taxes is talking about the education and health of our elders and our children. I heard Mr. Married ask for the PP vote last week because that's how taxes disappear. That is fiscal populism, Mr García Aegean, which has been translated with you in the government into a 30-time rise in taxes in our country. See, data: the IRPF was raised on five occasions; the VAT on two occasions, the IBI on two occasions, the company tax was raised on four occasions; all excise duties were raised and recorded. And remember - I tell you again - that of the sun tax and also that of the lotteries. Don't lecture us, Mr. García Aegean, because you are in a permanent election campaign and the key is which side you are on, and you are on the side of 150,000 euros a year. Yes, Mr. García Aegean - and it's over -, look, the only thing this government does, you know what it is? Unlike you, seek in social dialogue a proposal so that those who have less can get better off. Two, what we do is raise wages in our country. [[Rumors]] Yes, 1000 euros against you. And what we do is we get... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE INFORMATION REQUEST THAT THE EUROPEAN EXTERNAL ACTION SERVICE WILL FORM THE SPANISH AUTHORITIES ABOUT THE EXPORT OF WEAPONS TO TURKEY IS IT OPPORTUNITY? [[File number 180/000757]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u77	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u78	Thank you, President. On 25 January, the Euro MPs from Junts i Lliures per Europe, President Carles Puigdemont, Consteller Ponsatí and Consteller Comín received a reply from the High Representative and Vice-President of the European Commission, JosepBorrell, to questions concerning military programmes and arms sales in Spain. In their reply they announced that they would ask the Spanish authorities for information on the sale of weapons from Spain to Turkey and reminded them that the European Union has demanded that Turkey, a partner of Spain, cease its threats to Cyprus and Greece. You will tell me that selling weapons to a country is not prohibited, and it is true, but a number of conditions must be met. Perhaps that is why the European Commission is going to investigate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u79	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u80	Thank you, President. Your Honor, decisions on whether or not to grant export licences in defence materials are the responsibility of each Member State, and Spain has an advanced system of control over such exports. There is an agency - you should know, if not, I tell you - the Interministerial Regulatory Board of Trade in Defence and Dual-Use Materials, which presides over the Secretariat of State for Trade and in which there are multiple ministries - mine, which I lead, too. However, the assessment criteria are common, they are common to all Member States by a common position, 2008/944, Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty on Trade in Arms, which Spain has incorporated into its regulation, and the Regulation on external trade in defence material, other material and dual-use products and technologies, Royal Decree 679/2014, which assesses each operation according to individual criteria and circumstances. Spain therefore responds to the European External Action Service whenever it is necessary, because Spain has nothing to hide in any of these operations, because they are controlled according to common criteria, not according to the criteria set by Spain; also in relation to Turkey, a country with which we actually have a very good relationship, as we have with other Mediterranean countries, as we have with Greece or as we have with Cyprus. The good relationship with Turkey comes for three reasons: firstly, because it is a country that aspires to enter the European Union; secondly, because it is a Mediterranean country, like Spain, and thirdly, because we are joint members of NATO, where there is cooperation in the field of defence. There's nothing to hide, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u81	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u82	I believe, Minister, that Turkey is not like other countries. In any case, our question was addressed to the Minister of Defence, but we have you in front of us and we have adapted it a little more to outside. We have serious doubts about the impartiality of the high representative of the European Union, Josep Borrell, and we have them, first, because while in the office of President Von der Leyen the Germans represent 28% of the staff, in the office of Vice-President Timmermans the Dutch represent 17% of the staff and in the office of Vice-President Vestager the Danes are 20%, in the office of Mr Borrell the Spaniards represent an unusual 44%, and second, by the statements that you yourself made in the past Foreign Committee, stating - and I quote literally - that it is impossible to have more diplomatic weight in Europe than with the high representative, since this - the high representative, Borrell - was a Spanish chosen by this government. I remind you that Borrell is the high representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, he is not the representative of Spain in the European Union, and if he acts as such or Spain considers him as such, the problem is serious. Just as it is Spanish or German, the high representative, Minister, represents the European Union. Do you reaffirm yourself in these statements, on which our MEPs, as you should know, have already asked the Commission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u83	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u84	Your Honor, I reaffirm that it is a pride to have Josep Borrell as a high representative and that it is impossible for a country of the European Union to have more international weight in Europe than with the high representative, who has not chosen Spain, much more, Spain of course, but it has been chosen by the 27 countries of the European Union. That and the quality of Spanish officials in Europe is what makes us magnificently represented not only in the European External Action Service, but in the Commission and in the Council. You know that since September 15 new senior officials from the European institutions are Spanish, and that is thanks to the work that the Spanish Government is doing for the construction of Europe, as we are demonstrating with our involvement in the crisis... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WAS THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR IN THE CORRENT OF THE EXISTENCE OF NEGOTIATING CANALS WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PROETAR WORLD TO PROGRAM PRIVILEGIES TO THE PRESS OF STATE? [[File number 180/00792]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u86	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Jaime Miguel Mateu Istúriz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u87	Good morning, Madam President. Minister, you have once again had the virtue of indignant the victims of terrorism since we learned of this secret and opaque dialogue that the representative of Prison Institutions has had with the closest environment of ETA to give priority to the prisoners of age; and the most unfortunate thing is that as a privileged interlocutor appears the bloody terrorist assassin Kubati: 13 murders, 1214 years in prison and 26 years no longer fulfilled. Look at how cheap it costs to kill: two years in prison for every head that man has violently beheaded. And of course, it had to be again thanks to the Civil Guard's performance that we found out. I hope they don't roll heads for unveiling this performance. Mr. Grande-Marlaska, you're President Sánchez's representative to take all the old prisoners to the streets. That's why we asked you if you were aware of these underground conversations that you have held with the environment closest to ETA to grant prison privileges to senior prisoners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u88	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Mateu. You speak of underground conversations and clandestine negotiations. Look, nothing, nothing like that, don't miss the truth, don't come here with bubbles, and falsehoods. Please indicate at what point, in what paragraph, on which specific page of that Civil Guard report reference is made to that circumstance. There hasn't been any. Here the Prison Law is complied with; here the Prison Law is complied with both in the treatment and in the determination of the center and in the progression or non-progress grade orgress. That's what the treatment boards are for, that's what the judges are for, that's what the prosecutors are for. You also know that everything about transfers of prisoners from the terrorist organization ETA is done completely with transparency, communicating to the victims' associations, unlike what your party did when ETA killed and killed. Yes, he killed and killed us, and between 1996 and 2004 575 prisoners were transferred from the terrorist organization ETA. What about you guys doing? They were silent, while others were on the front line fighting the terrorist organization. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u90	Mr. Mateu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u91	Minister, you come here with yesterday's mantra, which you repeated in the Senate, and of course we do not believe you, your words are no longer credible. You have lost the elections in Castile and León, you have failed. And you know why? Not only by a magnificent president, who is already elected, and by a magnificent program, but also because the Castilian-Leonese do not forgive the governments that defend the murderers of many of their countrymen. [[Applauds]] The expression of the regional prosecutor, Mr Briones, who is the transmitter belt of what you all think - the Socialist Party and its partners - has been absolutely regrettable, saying that the executioners must be forgiven. What shame and disgust! What can you tell us, Minister, about this reform that is under way so that prisoners of age can make up for the years of imprisonment completed in France with which they are sentenced in Spain? You have to remember that that would benefit 48 terrorists who have killed 84 people, with a 10% lack of all the murders committed by the terrorist band ETA. Mr Marlaska, as the executioner arm of President Sánchez, you have to explain to us the iter that prisoners will have etarras at the end of everything you are doing. First they put a bus to get them to the prisons in the Basque Country, then they give them the keys to their custody and now they're going to put them on the street through a sinister program called door to another life. Door to another life is the one that the killers gave to over 850 people without having any legitimation to do so. The People's Party... [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand, addressed to Mr Mateu Istúriz]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Mateu. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Mateu. With all the personal respect I have, I don't know if it's okay for you to tell him here... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u94	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u95	... I'll tell him he keeps saying falsehoods. Tell me at what point in the Civil Guard report it is said that there has been or was intended to be non-compliance with the law. We abide by the law. Second of all, it's back to falsifying. Where or in what draft regulations exist such reform of Organic Law 7/2014. You said it was in the Government's policy draft. They said he wasn't, and he's not. Why do you have to repeat it? As long as the Minister of the Interior is who he is, the Prison Law will be enforced in its entirety, because this Minister of the Interior, as you approached prisoners of the terrorist organization while ETA was killing, was the direct target of the terrorist organization ETA. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And you know why? For enforcing the law. We all were. Do you know how ETA was defeated? With many officials and the unity of democratic political parties. But you have now departed. [[Rumors]] They do not want to be aware that it was that unit that defeated the terrorist organization ETA. And those of us who comply with the law, those who were on the front line also as victims of the terrorist organization ETA, fulfilling our duty as public officials of Spain, we will always continue to comply with the law. [[Applause from the Socialist and Confederal United Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY HAS THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR BEEN IN PERMANENT CONTACT WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PRESSES OF STATE TO DECALL THEIR REQUIREMENTS? [[File number 180/000785]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u96	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u97	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior, Minister of the Interior, who has viciously killed Judge Marlaska. [[Rumors]] Why have you hidden that the Ministry of the Interior is in constant contact with representatives of ETA prisoners in order to meet their demands? [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u98	Quiet, please. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I'll tell you again and again. There has been, has been and will be no negotiations for the implementation of the Prison Law. In this government the law is enforced in its entirety, I tell you again, not as when you were a spokesman for the Interior of the People's Party - 1996-2004. And I will repeat to you: 575 prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA while they killed us, murdered us, kidnapped us, and you were silent. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u100	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u101	They killed, threatened and kidnapped everyone, Minister of the Interior, everyone! [[Applauds]] But look, denying reality, as it strives to do, does not hide the truth of that reality. You have lied to this House, denying that there were such contacts, and now a report from the Civil Guard - no matter how much you try to distort it - shows that for three years now you have been in permanent contact with proeteran intermediaries directed no more or less than by the killer Kubati, that multiple criminal who in his time demanded his attacks on the civilian guard barracks - he said - to achieve white coffins, that is, massacred children. And with that gentleness you are exchanging messages, messages, visits, assignments and requests for concealment, by your ministry, requests for concealment. A wretched shawl wrapped in a treacherous secretism to the victims, democracy and Spain. And already the peak of defachability is that you before yesterday, to try to justify yourself, said that such contacts are normal institutional relations, institutional relations - he said - of your ministry. Look, there is no greater shame or contempt for the intelligence of the Spaniards. So, Minister, if you keep a minimum of decorum from what was Judge Marlaska, do not have the indecency to repeat that there is no negotiation and that everything is being done in accordance with the law and in a transparent manner. And of course, then, avoid this usual hysterical soflama trying to seek the applause of his own, because neither his screams nor his noises can cover up the evidence that his unworthy, immoral, servile and tracer behavior has turned the Ministry of the Interior into the great cloaca of sanchism. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u102	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u103	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. You tell me about suffomas, screams, noise. You're telling me about parliamentary bonhomy. Keep learning. In this sense I say again that there is no negotiation for the application of the Prison Law, there has not been, there has not been and there will never be; I will repeat it a thousand times. What exists is the application of the Prison Law. And you - as I have repeated on several occasions - should know perfectly well that in terms of treatment, in terms of determination of a prison, in terms of progression or regression of degree there are the treatment boards, there are the judges, there are the prosecutors. That's what happens in this country, and the law is enforced. You say there is no contact in institutional relations. In the trials, in the judiciary, during the proceedings, lawyers are also related to prosecutors, etc., but that does not imply that the law is not enforced. In this country the law is applied at all times and there has obviously been no contact with members of a terrorist organization or criminal organization. That's so clear, and I'll tell you again and again. And there are no prison benefits. Instead, this house does remind people of prison benefits - I say again - when ETA murdered and kidnapped us all, and that person was the spokesman for the Interior of the People's Party, Mr Gil Lázaro, yes, calling for prison benefits for the prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA. [[Applauds]] We do what we do is comply with the law, we do transparency. During these three years, all the transfers that have taken place in compliance with prison legislation, first to the victims, have been reported, and then the media have echoed and moved, because they are also the ones who carry out social control. We, for that very reason, have nothing to hide, and I ask you to tell me the sheet and the point where in that report of the Civil Guard - who are really professional and who have given everything for democracy - it is said that the law is not being complied with. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL ANDRÉS LORITE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT NEW CHARGES ARE PLANNING TO IMPOSE THE GOVERNMENT TO SPAINERS IN THE FUTURE MOBILITY LAW? [[File number 180/00791]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u104	Question addressed to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Andrés Lorite Lorite, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u105	Minister, when you govern, mobility ceases to be a right to become a luxury item. You just have to see that when fuel prices rise, you do nothing; you just have to see your refusal to lower airport charges or how you raise the price of train tickets to users. Madam Minister, this model of mobility is not sustainable for the Spanish pocket, but it is that their indecency and immorality have reached the institutions and the Council of Ministers, nullifying the adoption of the Law on Sustainable Mobility for clearly electoral interests. Minister, now that the PSOE has failed in the elections of Castile and León, could you tell the House about those tolls that include the Mobility Act? [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u106	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lorite, I have told you on other occasions, but I will repeat it to you again. Even yesterday the President of the Government, in the control session at the Senate Plenary, said so. Look, I repeat this for the umpteenth time: what this Government is going to do, what this Government intends to do is to initiate a transparent dialogue with political parties, social actors - the transport sector included - and with the competent administrations to address the future and sustainability of the State road network. Under no circumstances does the Mobility Act provide for or adopt any specific measure, no specific model, nor, of course, its entry into force. I have told you many times, but, I insist, I repeat it now and how many times I need it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u108	Mr. Lorite.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u109	Minister, you lie like Sanchez, manipulate like Tezanos and hide your commitments like Ábalos. You are the worthy successor. He himself has already concealed from this House that he had included the matter of tolls in the recovery plan, approving it in the Council of Ministers and referring to Brussels. And you know why he did it? Because we were in the anteroom of the elections to the Community of Madrid. You now commit the same trap again in the run-up to the elections to Castile and León and eliminate it from the Council of Ministers. But it hardly served you, Mrs. Sánchez, because your punishment to the Madriders and the Castilanoleonese could not go out for free. This has been the response to multilevel Spain, to which you share investments with absolute territorial imbalance and with arbitrariness in the distribution of European funds. But your tax voraciousness has no limits, Minister. The collection of the car sector exceeds 30 billion euros and yet you want to impose a new tax on the wheel: the tolls. You're good with slogans, Mrs. Sanchez. Where is the strong and fair economic recovery? In raising quotas to the self-employed or taxes to all Spaniards while suffering the prices of light, diesel and shopping basket? Madam Minister, don't you give any of the people who want to set up tolls on all the Spanish highways? [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u110	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u111	Mr. Lorite, I see you're still with the same speech. He seems to be unconvinced and, moreover, surprised. You are surprised by the mere fact of establishing an analysis and a study of how we finance our road network, when between 2012 and 2018, when you ruled - it is also in the archives of Ineco - two studies were developed to address the charging of the high capacity network. I also say to him that we always have to go in and correct, correct, the disastrous management of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] I am talking to you about the known radial highways and the harmful consequences of their management, due to poor planning, unreal calculations of traffic, inadequate expropriations, which were aggravated by the adoption of the People's Party Soil Law. You said the radials weren't going to cost the citizens a euro and the courts are saying otherwise. The law on sustainable mobility will be taken to the first reading of the Council of Ministers in early March and you will have the opportunity to read it, to know what that law contains, the regulatory framework for establishing and developing transport and mobility policies in line with the needs of citizens and the challenges of the twenty-first century, something you have always refused to do: to address the challenges, the needs of citizens and to consolidate citizens' mobility as a right that public administrations have to guarantee to citizens...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO FOR THE LAW TO BE COMPLETED IN SPANISH SCHOOLS? [[File number 180/000790]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u113	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs María Sandra Moneo Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, about 200 Catalan families are waiting for the execution of the sentence that recognizes the right of their children and all Catalan pupils to receive education in Spanish effectively and immediately, at least 25%. They are families that are being harassed, such as the Canet de Mar family, pressured or simply deceived so that other families do not follow their example. Silence and blackmail, that is the response of the Generalitat, silence and blackmail, the response of its government partners. That's why I ask you: How do you plan to enforce the law? Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u115	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Moneo, this government does and will do everything in its hands, as it cannot be otherwise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u117	Mrs Moneo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u118	I fear that, for you to be the Minister of Education of the Kingdom of Spain, you have no idea what is happening in the educational institutions of this country. Or maybe it's that we're talking about something else, maybe those contortionist balances that you have to do to stay supported by those that allow you to sit on the blue bench. Please, minister, take off your face. You know, like me, that last day 4 the Generalitat of Catalonia had to have communicated how it intends to execute the sentence. And of course you have, Minister, further strengthened Catalan in schools, intensified inspections and instructed directors. If not, ask what has happened in an institute in Manresa where, at the direction of the Generalitat, a family has been prevented from being able to study in Spanish, as the courts say, minister. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] Moreover, they have drawn up a draft decree that once again corneres the Castilian and violates the law, and you do nothing. You have simply become an accomplice to that political trilerism practiced by the Catalan Government. Minister, what kind of country do you intend to become? Or, rather, what kind of government is that with which sentences are breached, the law is breached and looked elsewhere? Minister, your colleague, the spokesman minister, said yesterday that rights and freedoms can never be a currency of change in the formation of any government. So apply the story, because the rights and freedoms of students in Catalonia are being trampled on so that you can tread on the carpets of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u119	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Moneo, the truth is that I was afraid that with this question, what you were trying to do was to release once again that obsession that your political party has to look for political revenue with everything about the teaching of Spanish in Catalonia. But after listening to her, I'll tell you something. You have a very curious relationship with justice, because you use any pretext to bring to court any political action that you do not like, but, on the other hand, when justice points to you, you prevent legal action, crushing hard drives or accusing judges of bias. [[Applauds]] So, Mrs. Moneo, don't worry, justice doesn't work on the letter. We are talking about a firm judgment and, therefore, like any firm judgment, in this country it is being implemented. Now, in the meantime, I'll tell you something, Miss Moneo... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u121	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u122	Stop using languages continuously to divide and confront us. Because, moreover, it is mathematical: whenever the People's Party is in crisis, they pulled classics and used the language to divide us and to confront us. Mrs Moneo, this country has four co-official languages, which are a source of linguistic wealth for our country, and this one who speaks to you will always defend you, not against each other, which is what you do all the time. However, Mrs Moneo, you are a Member of Parliament for Burgos; I recommend that you also take this speech to your autonomous community, because for a few days now that gentleman you want to make Vice President of the Government accuses Núñez Feijóo of creating foreigners in Galicia for promoting Galicia on his land. [[Applauds]] So, please, Mrs Moneo, if those are your fellow travellers but you consider that the extreme right is a danger to this country, tell me, as the President of the Government has told you today, and stop continually taking your arguments into account... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u123	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u124	... which is, on the other hand, what you do every day. Mrs Moneo, I tell you with all due respect, at this stage the People's Party is simply staying at nothing. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF JOSÉ ANTONIO BERMUDEZ DE CASTRO FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO DEPOSITED THE LORD TO HAVE US AS THE PRESIDENT OF THE CENTRE OF SOCIAL INVESTIGATIONS? [[CIS]] [[File number 180/000794]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u125	Questions to the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u126	Thank you, President. Minister, if there was a minimally serious government in Spain, I would not have to be asking this question, because Mr Tezanos would have ceased long ago because of his sectarianism, his continuous mistakes and his lack of impartiality. But the gout that has filled the glass has been the double skating in the polls of the elections of Castile and León and the leaking of the poll to Mr. Iglesias before becoming public, a serious case of privileged information that you try to cover up, but which has placed Mr. Tezanos in an unsustainable position. That's why I ask you: When are you going to dismiss Mr. Tezanos as president of the CIS? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u127	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. I want to defend the professionalism and rigour of CIS and its professionals. [[Protests.-Applause.]] And I also want to defend in this House the path of the President of the CIS.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u129	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u130	Do not attack public bodies, public institutions, officials. [[Protests]] Do not attack them to simply put a smokescreen to cover the result you have had in Castile and Lion. Don't cover it up. [[Protests.-Applause.]] The question is...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for silence, please. [[Rumors.-Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]] One second, Minister. Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel, I ask you to be quiet, please. [[Rumors.-Mr. Alonso Pérez utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Alonso, silence, please. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Don't get nervous. [[Protests]] You've got yourself into this mess, you guys, with an absolutely childish summons. [[laughs]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] The question for you is: are you going to stop collaborating with those demoscopic companies that told you that you were going to make an absolute majority, or close by, in Castile and León, and that you provoked the election call with pilgrim excuses? [[Protests]] Posts to ask: will you turn Castile and Leon over to VOX, to its ultra-rightist policies, to its extremist policies, to its policies contrary to the European Union and contrary to the Constitution? That's the question. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: What a lack of respect!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, to respect the use of the floor. [[Protests]] They cannot be permanently interrupting the speaker. Mr. Bermúdez de Castro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u134	Thank you, President. Mr. Bolaños, you can say whatever you want, but the reality is that no one believes the CIS surveys anymore. You know why? Because Mr Tezanos is using these surveys to make policy, always with the same injured, always with the same beneficiary, and with the sole aim of creating expectations and a climate of political opinion favourable to the left forces. That's the reality. I will give you two examples: in the past elections to the Madrid Community, the CIS was the only survey that predicted a tie situation between the right and left blocs, when reality and the final result was a landslide victory of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And now, in the elections of Castile and León, they have done so again: the CIS has been the only poll that gave the Socialist Party the electoral victory, when all the other demoscopic companies gave the victory to the People's Party. [[Show a document]] Do you know what the result was? You know it: a new victory of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And, in the face of this new failure, Mr. Tezanos, instead of resigning, has come up with nothing but trying to justify his mistakes by ensuring that the CIS does neither magic nor divination. That, Minister, is a mockery to all Spaniards, because, then, why does the CIS do electoral surveys? To make a mistake? Don't you really feel a bit of blush and shame? Don't you? [[Several Members: No]] Well, don't worry, because we're sorry for you. That is why, if Mr Tezanos is not going to cease, if he is going to continue to tune the polls of intention to vote in favour of the left and if they are going to continue to use CIS as a tool for the government's strategy, the logical and laudable thing is that these polls are not paid with the money of all the Spaniards, the logical and the decent thing is that, from now on, they are charged with the propaganda expenses of the Socialist Party. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause From the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u135	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today I look forward to exercising and I congratulate you on it. [[Laughter]] You called false elections in Castile and León with two objectives: to achieve the absolute majority or to approach......and to visualize... [[a Member: Answer the question, man!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u137	Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Protests]] I also ask you to remain silent, please we will not be interrupting the monitoring session permanently when a member of the Government speaks. [[Addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u138	For a long time I thought the best thing that could happen to her on the right is that she was moderate, today I just settle for her to be polite. [[Applauds]] You called elections with two objectives: one, approaching the absolute majority or achieving it, and two, visualizing a supposed cycle change that was only in your mind. [[Rumors]] Well, in 2019 you, the People's Party had the worst result of its history in Castile and León. Well, it's no longer the worst, the worst is the one you got last Sunday because you've had less vote percentage and fewer votes, 55 000 fewer votes. [[Applauds]] And with regard to the change of cycle, the only change that can be made is in the dome of the People's Party. That is the only change that will take place in Spain. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] - OF THE FRENCH BALDE EDMUND, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REDUCTION OF QUALIFICATION TO SPANISH DEMOCRACY IN THE DEMOCRATIC QUALITY INDEX OF THE ECONOMICOMIST? [[File number 180/000782]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u139	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u140	The Economist has relegated us to Spain to the second wagon of advanced democracies, and this has not happened for a long time with his Government. What do you think of all this, Mr. Bolaños?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u141	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. We cannot appreciate positively that The Economist has dropped us in the ranking, but I have to tell you that the reason for that drop in the ranking is the blockade of the General Council of the Judiciary and its renewal, whose causes are these gentlemen, the People's Party. [[Rumors]] The explanations will therefore have to be given by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I hope that the People's Party will be aware that its irresponsibility, immaturity, lack of law enforcement has consequences for the prestige of the judiciary and also for the external image of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u143	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u144	And you continue with the cunning that Spain has to look like Poland on this issue. Look, you don't have to convince me that Spain is a great democracy, you have to convince Podemos, Esquerra and Bildu, who constantly say that we are a failed democracy. But, in fact, it is not the People's Party that is to blame, it is the two, that the judges have been handing out thirty-five years, and you continue as Don Felix the Empecinado saying that the judges will never elect the judges. I said to you once: Will you change the system of choice of judges? And you said to me, "Above my dead body. And you still think that in order to avoid the blockade we have to fall into the market, and not, sir, we have to change the system, that the judges choose the judges, that Spain return to the first wagon of democracy. I want you to answer me: After the elections of Castile and Lion, are you already distributing the General Council of the Judiciary? Because after those of Catalonia the public television was distributed, after those of Madrid the Constitutional was distributed with the People's Party. It's just that they look more like what they say. Another element that The Economist points out is corruption, in what you look like barbarity. What serious reform has the Socialist Party made against corruption? None! And on top of that, vote against what we put to you. What serious reform has the People's Party against Corruption done? None! You guys look more like each other than you say. And finally, the independence of the Attorney General's Office. What did you vote for when we proposed an independence statute? We were voted no, the same as the People's Party in 2018. It seems good to you that a person should rise up as Minister of Justice, lie down as a State Attorney General and be thinking of occupying a board of directors of a private company in a revolving door. I regret to say that I am envious of Italy, Italy!, where judges are elected by judges and where a judge who passes to politics cannot judge again. I say one thing: to see if they agree to combat nationalism and populism, because there you will find Citizens; to divide the state, no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u145	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. I was hoping, Mr Bal, that you would ask the People's Party to comply with the law, the Constitution, because you, who are a man of order and a man of whom I have no doubt that you want the law to be enforced in Spain, the first thing you should do is ask the People's Party to comply with the law and the Constitution. The Economist lowers us from the ranking because the People's Party does not comply with the law and does not comply with the Constitution. And they do it with public display. They say they don't do it because they don't like the law. They think they're above the law. Why don't they apply the law, like any other citizen? Mr. Bal, ask the People's Party. We don't have to do any corruption reform. Do you know the only reform we've done? Be an honest government, honored! I'm sure he doesn't think much of it, I'm sure he doesn't think much of it. [[Applauds]] No legal reform is necessary. See, Spain remains one of the twenty-five most consolidated democracies in the world. It has a similar score to the United States, Italy, and France. We have a note on the functioning of the Government which is similar to that of the previous year, and a very high note in democratic pluralism and also in the functioning of our democracy. We have a ballast, which is that the governing body of the judges is not renewed, and it is not done because the People's Party does not comply with the law and does not comply with the Constitution. I ask the People's Party once again, by the image of Spain, by the prestige of the institutions, to renew the General Council of the Judiciary. And if they don't do it for the image of Spain, if they don't do it for our country or for the judiciary, think if a party that doesn't comply with the law, that doesn't comply with the Constitution, is a solid alternative to government. I'm telling you, no. You cannot be an alternative to government until you comply with the Constitution and the law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON DON FRANCISCO JAVIER ORTEGA SMITH-MOLINA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF CONSUMER: DOES YOU THINK THAT THE SPANISH CARN EXPORTED IS OF BAD QUALITY? [[File number 180/000766]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u147	Question to the Minister for Consumer Affairs. Question by Mr Francisco Javier Ortega Smith-Molina, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u148	Mr Garzón, do you still think that the Spanish meat we export is of poor quality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u149	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u150	Thank you, President. Member, on what I said I reaffirm myself; absolutely. And about what I didn't say, which is what you said, I have nothing to value. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u151	Mr. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u152	The truth is that it is a shame that you did not appear at the last control session to the Government, just before the elections, at the request of our group. Someone told him to hide at home. And it's a shame, because every time you talk about any matter, the support in the street and in the ballot box is multiplied by thousands to our political group, the only social and patriotic alternative to communism. You were able to check it last Sunday, where your communist group went from having two prosecutors to staying with one. Lost 50 %. And one by the hair, worth the redundancy. Instead, our political group went from one to three brave and gallant prosecutors. Minister, look, it is a real crime that a minister of the Kingdom of Spain dares to attack a social and economic sector as strategic as livestock and food, but to do so abroad is already an aggravating factor that makes it a crime of high treason or a crime against the homeland. Look at you, Minister, it's absolutely false what you said. And, as we were told by hundreds of farmers from all over Castile and León, I will answer on your behalf: when you say that Spanish meat is of poor quality, here the only thing there is of poor quality is a minister like you and this ignorant government with the real problems of the rural world. When you say that the Spanish industry pollutes, here the only thing that pollutes are the false and sectarian messages that through their subsidized media transmission straps, those that were once called journalists and that today are propagandists of the lie, they play the game. And when you, Minister, say that animals are abused in Spain, here the only thing that is abused in Spain is the Spaniards, with their harmful fiscal policy, with their sectarianism and their political totalitarianism and, what is equally serious, with their corrupt policies. Minister, do not lie, the economy of Spain is at stake, and if you do not have the status of minister, resign. It's that simple. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u153	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, at this stage you know perfectly well that what you say I said is a lie; it is not true, I did not say it at any time. I urge you to really read it, because even so you finally agree. But it is obvious that you give equal arguments and give equal data, in fact in the end the only thing that interests you is to spread bubbles, spread lies, set people on fire and that this ends up as in political violence in Lorca City Hall, something that you have not yet condemned. The problem is that if you liked to argue and you liked the facts, we would be talking about what I really did say, and it is the criticism of the micro-range model, for the eco-social crisis that this entails: economic costs, ecological costs and social costs. [[Mr Ortega Smith-Molina shows a document]] If you really defended small and medium-sized farmers and if you really defended the working class, you would agree that this model is shifting to traditional family, social and extensive livestock. Ask livestock associations such as UPA and COAG, which are against micro-farms. Ask, if not, the neighbours who throughout Spain are suffering from soil pollution, water pollution, odour pollution and who are leaving their population, who were already suffering from depopulation in those territories. Or ask them, if not, what you deny, climate change. Ask who is going to affect our country's drought, climate change and desertification most, since one of the most affected sectors is the primary sector. But you know it doesn't matter. You have not come here to contrast arguments or to contrast data, you have come here to continue burning with lies, to continue promoting bubbles and you want to camouflage as leaders who defend the working class, as we have seen this morning with your leader. In the end, what we have to talk about is the facts, and that is that you voted against the ERTE, you voted against the labour reform, you voted against the minimum living income, you voted against all the achievement and continuation of labour rights. Moreover, I couldn't answer to you two weeks ago because I was ill by coronavirus, but it is that you voted against the repeal of the target dismissal for medical discharge, because you are against the working class and you are against the little one. You are always very strong and very insensitive against the weak, but you are absolutely servile always against the powerful. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA ORAMAS GONZALEZ-MORO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATIONS: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN GOING TO DO TO CORRECT THE FAIRNESS OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE MINIMUM VITAL INCOME, WHO HAS NOT COME TO KNOW OF THOUSANDS OF PERSONS RECEIVED FROM REQUIREMENTS? [[File number 180/000780]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u155	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u156	Thank you, Madam President. What will the Government of Spain do to correct the failure of the management of minimum living income, which has not reached hundreds of thousands of people who met the requirements?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u157	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u158	President, Your Honor, of course minimum living income is an extraordinary success and, sadly, you are asking me the question and thus formulating it. All those who have not received the minimum living income are because they have not met the requirements, as is the case with all kinds of benefits, and indeed the majority because they do not meet the income and wealth requirements. Moreover, almost a million Spaniards already receive the minimum living income. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u159	Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u160	Minister, I ask you about the hundreds of thousands of Spaniards, and in particular canaries, who in extreme poverty have not received the minimum living income. They have not arrived for several reasons, among others because of the digital divide, with no choice of presence. I'll tell you the case of Social Security in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. People arrive to queue at five o'clock in the morning - older people, pregnant...-, standing and in the weather; when they open the doors they only attend to twenty people having queues of over a hundred. That also happens in Tenerife, Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. The workers want to take care of people and don't leave them. There are three modifications to adapt the benefit to real situations, but the people who had been refused are not communicated or reviewed on their own initiative and are required to make a new application digitally. The citizen who is denied, when he has the opportunity to appeal to the Social Court - which takes a year - and won it, Social Security appeals and continues not to pay the benefit recognized judicially. I have a documented case here - which I will give you - of a palm tree, Victor Javier Acosta, which has been in this calvary for a year and a half. There was no prediction of the human and material means that they needed, with temporary staff, when it is a permanent benefit, being impossible to attend face-to-face to people who do not have digital skills in the sector of greatest social exclusion. He did not want to reach an agreement with the municipalities or give it to the autonomous communities. They wanted to sign off on the political thing. This has led to the disaster of management and to the frustration and impotence of the officials, who, by the way, have reported yesterday that they will manifest themselves, in the case of the Canary Islands, in the coming days because of the situation of collapse before the sub-delegations of the Government. The situation is unacceptable. Of more than 300,000 people in extreme poverty in the Canary Islands, as of December 3, only 19,000 had received income. Today they say it's 37,000, but it's still terrible. Today 300,000 canaries will know, when you listen to him, that you left them and the Social Security workers. Take action now!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u161	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u162	Mrs Oramas, look, there are many metrics I can think of to evaluate the success of the minimum living income, but I will give you one that will understand and know you perfectly. For twenty-five years, since the mid-1990s, the minimum income has been the competence of the autonomous communities and, therefore, until 2019 was the competence of its autonomous community, the Canary Islands. Who ruled it for those twenty-five years? You, Canary Coalition. And what's the result? What's the result? Well, look, after 25 years we have reached 42 000 people, in the year and a half we have reached more than 100 000. We have doubled the budget that you have not been able to develop in exactly 25 years. [[Applauds]] And you're coming to tell me this here? Come on, please! Come on, please! [[Mrs. Oramas González-Moro pats herself on the cheek with her hand]] But I'll tell you more. Couldn't you guys get to that? See, in 2018, your last year, do you know what the Canary Islands surplus was? The Government of the Canary Islands stopped spending €900 million. It had a surplus of 900 million and was spent 42. In other words, they could have increased their Canarian income by more than twenty, and they didn't. They left 42 million, less than 20,000 people, twenty-five years to do so. And you dare come here and teach us lessons with this? Please! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u163	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government to prevent ETA from deciding on Spain's prison policy. For your defence, Mrs López Álvarez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u164	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Marlaska, look at my flap. Do you recognize this shield? I suppose so, though, seen, with your unworthy - like you - prison politics is a lot to assume. I tell you; this is the emblem with the coat of arms of Prison Institutions. Do you know who it belongs to? My father. Do you know what it means, what it represents? Honesty, something you lack to the point of satiety. [[Applauds]] And you know why you took him today? To portray from this rostrum the body of Prison Institutions in the face of its disastrous, denigrating and sinister prison policy administration. You have the medal to the bad merit of degrading an institution as noble and as sacrificial as it is that carried out by all professionals within prisons. What an infamy his and that of his secretary general, Ángel Luis Ortiz, who have been able to sell themselves to the devil. Let's put a record on it. It is well known that, since his arrival in the Ministry of the Interior, concessions have been made in relation to the approach of senior prisoners to Basque prisons and the granting of discharges without the mandatory technical reports of the professionals who, according to the law, must carry them out. We also knew that ETA's heirs in this Chamber are their partners to count on in decisive votes, and it is that, to you, the acts in tribute to the members of ETA do not come or go to them, when those tributes to ages is the murder to the memory and recognition of the victims of terrorism; and it is the murder to the memory of those who cost them their lives the unity of Spain. [[Applauds]] It was a cry to voices - as I say - imprisoned for political support, it was a cry to voices imprisoned for budgets, it was and is a cry to voices that who marked and marks the times is ETA. And at the height of the senselessness, in the last few days your department is the object of information that does not give rise to misunderstanding that you are the creator of the greatest betrayal of Spain, the victims of terrorism and penitentiary institutions, when it comes to the light that a report from the Civil Guard, four hundred pages no more or less, shame should give you that the armed institute for which you are responsible will bring to light your betrayals of Spain. It is a report where the Benemerita accesses the messages between the environment of the incarcerated ages and the government, even before its constitution, and that it be her secretary general who before dating you prepared the meetings with the Kubati age. As has been known, the procedure includes the existence of a channel of communication between ETA and posts of the General Secretariat of Penitentiary Institutions; to request a prison centre and progressions of degree were the petitions addressed by senior prisoners and, in view of this, you can no longer deny that your agenda, that the agenda of the prison policy, the agenda of your ministry and the agenda of the Government is managed by a chief representing extortion, blackmail, threat, kidnapping and death. There's no doubt anymore, Mr. Marlaska, your boss is ETA. [[Applauds]] Moreover, his is, unfortunately, a policy that tramples on the pain of the victims of terrorism, despises their suffering and incarnates the wounds that never heal from the car bomb, from the shot in the back of the neck or from that bomb pack that came home. And do you know why my father stopped putting this shield on his lapel, even though he never did it in his heart? Because ETA threatened him for years until he was sent a bomb package; thirty years ago, after he was transferred from the Rosales prison in Ceuta to the Salto del Negro prison in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. [[The Lord]] Mr Marlaska, here is the key question: do you know why ETA was chasing you? For doing just the opposite of what you are doing, for enforcing within prisons the Penal Code, the Prison Law and the Prison Regulations, for not giving a single privilege or special treatment to criminal gang killers. [[applause]] Of course, to comply with the law one must be honest and honest, and to be honest and honest had its consequences. Look, I bring you here some examples of what those consequences were. For example, this circular was moving in prisons between prisoners of age. [[Show a photocopy]] Decade of the Nineties: Esteban Nieto again resorts to the hunger strike as an extreme and last means in the face of pressure from a group of officials and the head of services García de Vinuesa, for the continuous changes of cell, caches and integral nudes. Or this other information from the Diario de Las Palmas in reference to the blackmailers hunger strikes of ETA killer prisoners. [[shows another photocopy]] The Amnesty Coordinator sends a statement and the Diario de las Palmas echoes and says: The policy of sanctions and caches is a new attack by the well-known torturer and head of services García de Vinuesa. Or this other information, this other news from the newspaper Egin in reference to a statement that is called the Association of Relatives of Basque Political Prisoners: The irregular provocations and actions that the prisoners suffer are directed by a chief of services named García de Vinuesa. [[shows a third photocopy]] And look, I'm going to teach you this last one - although, if you like, I later taught you a lot more - a telegram of threats, a common medium then, saying: We demand respect for human rights Basque prisoners or charge against your conscience State guilt. [[shows the document]] You will know - I imagine again - that security measures, i.e. prison population counts, records, searches, searches, controls, cell changes, are regulated in Article 65 of the Prison Rules and that they are internal security measures in prisons. [[shows a copy]] Paragraph 2 of the resolution states that the intensity of these measures will be in line with the potential perils of the inmates to be applied, particularly in the case of inmates belonging to terrorist groups, organized crime or extreme danger, and that, of course, all those threats were nothing more or less to point out to the next one to include in the long list of Spaniards to be killed by law enforcement, against benefits and favors sought by criminals, as are now done by those same criminals and their heirs, who want to break what is the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation. [[Applauds]] That's what you have to defend the law and order, Mr.Marlaska, from that you should know a little bit, but you've been able to rule the business with death, a business that leaves the following figures since September 2018. There were then 232 inmates of ETA in Spanish prisons, 227 of whom were sentenced and 5 prisoners, and about 90% of whom were classified as first degree or closed regime. In three years his negotiations with the protera world leave a current record that speaks of the 180 prisoners of ETA in first degree or closed regime no one is already serving their sentence under that regime. Tell me, Mr. Marlaska, who are you with, those who die or those who kill? Where is the dignity left, Mr Marlaska, where is the decency of a minister when he is able to negotiate his chair and that of his president with statures and proteras to improve the situation of the murderers in prisons, to give them benefits that they do not deserve in the form of release or rapprochement, and you leave the law in the drawers of memory? [[Applauds]] Although it is not the only thing that has been left on the road; you too have left honor and dignity in the carpet corridors and have exalted even more what we all knew, that proteras and murderers are the appendix that marks the course of a government with little scruple and no conscience. Because, you know, I was a little girl when I saw my father lying on the floor to look under our car, when I had to give every six months a phone number other than my friends, and also when our car had a different license plate every certain time, and I didn't understand anything a day when an artifact broke out in prison. I saw the explosion from the prison staff pavilion where we lived; at 40 meters the explosive charge went up to the sky. Over the years I knew that with the threat we traveled from Ceuta to the Lucky in the hope of living without bullets in the back, but from them we returned with the unnegotiable package of ETA, which sought a price to pay that was too high, don't you think, Mr Marlaska? It was life. And you and your government are able to agree on prison policy in relation to the prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA with the inherited formations of those bloody criminals in exchange for violating the memory of nearly 900 murdered, including the brother and nieces of my dear colleague José Alcaraz and the son of Antonio Salvá, Diego. [[Applauds]] But also the memory of members of their ranks. Have you forgotten the balance sheet of murder victims? Have you forgotten the 80 kidnappings? Because 532 days had José Antonio Ortega Lara kidnapped. By the way, do you know what I saw when I walked in and out of the prison where we lived? I'm going to tell you: a cartel demanding the release of prison officer Ortega Lara. I do not forget the minutes of silence of his companions at the prison gates asking for their freedom; minute of silence week after week for almost two years. A little bit of crime has its partners behind their backs! This Government has now implemented a pro-terrorist prison policy against what has historically been carried out by the various governments when they were implementing an anti-terrorist prison policy. Your duty in politics, if you were a decent minister - you, who have lived threatened also many years, what makes you even more unworthy if it fits - is not to close your agreements with ETA. Because those agreements are being closed by a traitor, you yourself, a minister of the interior, and what you should do - as I say - as far as prison policy is concerned is to comply with the law. So what measures are you going to take to prevent ETA from ceasing to decide on Spain's prison policy? Because I remind you, Mr. Marlaska, that forgiving terrorists is God's business. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u165	I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Your Honor, because of my legal background, because of my trajectory, I have the good or bad habit of looking at the written documents. I believe that they are a good sign of the will with which a party, in this case its parliamentary group, comes here. It is not often to read the initiatives, many times you do not, but today I think it is relevant and relevant for the House, for public opinion to know that the third parliamentary group in number of Members brings an initiative in which it asks what measures will be taken to stop ETA from leading the government's prison policy. [[shows a photocopy]] That's all right, and I'm serious about it, it's all right to be frivolized by terrorism; it's all right that all they don't like is ETA; that's all right. Because what you're showing by writing this kind of thing is that you're anxious to be a protagonist, to want to be part of a moment in our country's history where VOX simply did not exist, frivolating, as you do, with terrorism, using it to talk about almost anything and above all to talk about yourself. You lack respect, yes, and the memory of the victims of terrorism; yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes. Judges, prosecutors, national police, civil guards, councillors, teachers, prison officials, members of the People's Party, comrades of the Socialist Party and even members of their own party, who did not give up their lives so that you here today fail to respect the entire Spanish society that faced and defeated ETA. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to disagree, but we are going to leave something clear, clear and settled in the political debate. Maybe you don't know because you weren't in politics and you didn't find out. I did, I did, because I was, along with many Spaniards, one of the people we fought in the front line. ETA, let's be clear, it doesn't exist anymore. ETA, I repeat, it doesn't exist anymore. ETA was defeated by the rule of law and democracy, it is an achievement of this society, and every time it frivolates about it I will be faced. Because, in order not to be forgotten, it must be clear that it takes much more than having fifty ultra-rightists face to tell them that ETA no longer exists. Therefore, on the basis that your inquiry is already answered, since ETA does not exist, I shall, of course, inform your ladies and gentlemen of what we do in prison policy, and I will do it again. I have said this in the questions to the Government and I answer it in a strong way at the moment. Neither has there been nor will there be any negotiation process in relation to compliance with prison legislation. There has been neither any negotiation nor any negotiation on compliance with prison legislation. I will repeat this to you again, as I have done in approximately twenty-one debates throughout the legislature. In Spain, prison legislation is strictly enforced. And this is not a question left to the debate or reflection of each one in his or her seat; it is a question born of speaking with ownership of what the prison legislation says. In Spain, prison legislation is based on the principles of article 25 of our Constitution, resocialization. To achieve full reintegration, the General Organic Prison Law and its regulations are meridianly clear. Firstly, it is imperative that treatment be individualised, yes, individualised, not by collectives. This is a key aspect for two issues: on the one hand, because you and your colleagues in the People's Parliamentary Group are trying to confuse public opinion by distorting treatment with benefits. And, look, it's not the same. Treatment is all those issues that have to do with the determination of the centre of the sentence, the progression of degree or, where appropriate, the regression. The benefits - they say - have more to do with pardons or the advance of parole. Therefore, all those issues that have to do with the change of prison, with the transfers, are treatment. I have always said this: the dispersion of the prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA was an anti-terrorist policy, but since ETA no longer exists and democracy has defeated it, it is no longer necessary to do anti-terrorist policy with ETA. Clearly, prison legislation must be made. And if you lived in a prison, you need to know what prison legislation is. In our country, prison legislation is certainly not rematch in that sense, but compliance with the law. And in our country the legislation requires that the treatment, the classification of degrees, the determination of the prison be individualized. And it is always done by the treatment boards, in the framework of an administrative procedure under judicial control with the participation of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. Therefore, there can be no collective treatment, except that from the conspiracy that you preach, in addition to my person, my team or the Secretary General of Prison Institutions, thousands of other people, including prison officials, judges or prosecutors, are involved. In which case it would not be a matter of parliamentary questioning, but of denunciation in the court; yes, of denunciation in the court. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, despite the noise, despite the insidiousness of the far right and despite the irresponsibility of the People's Party to follow it, it must be said clearly: in Spain the penal legislation is complied with, but it is also complied with in a transparent way, which is how this Government acts - not how it was done before - by putting all the information on the table, with light and tachographs, in order to promote the different means of control: the control exercised by the different media; the control in this case of the victims of terrorism, who have been informed by the General Directorate of Support for Victims of Terrorism before each transfer decision - information that we are aware does not alleviate the pain they have, but that it is justice to carry it out towards the associations of victims - and their control, I would say, parliamentary control, since, unlike in other periods of our history, when ETA was extoring, killing, kidnapping, while ETA simply existed, the transfers of the party without informing the people's own media were carried out by the collective party. And that you, despite all the frivolity of your first intervention, are asking me here today on this issue is the best proof of the transparency policy that this government follows. A transparency, I tell you, far removed from that practiced by previous governments in the hands of the People's Party, when they practiced 575 transfers between 1996 and 2004, when ETA killed and kidnapped; 230 transfers between 2011 and 2018, without communicating it to terrorist victims' associations. Of course, it was because the Ministry of the Interior of other governments, of the Government of the People's Party, were engaged, as we have said on other occasions, in other matters, as we are familiar with through various judicial orders. And it was also because some parliamentarians who come every Wednesday morning to release their aggressive rally, at that time suddenly muted and then thought that by changing sides they would be able to whitewash their own history. Therefore, Your Honor, your inquiry has very easy answer - I am finishing, President -, ETA does not direct the government's prison policy for a simple reason: ETA does not exist, we defeated it and then it was dissolved. So I stopped dragging through the mud - yes, stop dragging through the mud - the achievement of an entire country in front of a terrorist gang; I repeat, of an entire country in front of a terrorist gang. Secondly, in Spain, prison policy is based exclusively on the full implementation of the General Organic Prison Law. I repeat: treatment, classification and determination of the centre carried out individually, determined by treatment boards and always under judicial control. And thirdly, the law is transparently enforced to ensure that society, the media, victims' associations and you, elected parliamentarians, have all the information. All these transfers that have taken place under prison law in those three years have been made known from the very beginning. Therefore - I finish now, President - in your second round, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to apologize to all the victims of terrorism for frivolising with this initiative and, secondly, to stop appropriating the fight against terrorism, the memory of the fight against it, the memory of the victims and to deny Spanish society our victory with the law and democracy in the face of terrorism. Look, it's okay, with all due respect to your father, all prison officers, all police, civilian guards, judges and prosecutors, I'm a part of them, I don't need to wear anything because I'm a part of them. I'll say it whenever it's necessary; I've been three and a half years without saying it, out of education, but that's fine. I've been, I'm a victim of terrorism, I've been on the front line fighting terrorism, I've had two attempts at terrorist attack. And why? For enforcing the law. I don't need that. My family, the people close to me, have borne that risk. Let us, please, stop frivolating on this subject. All the officials in this country, the whole Spanish society was on the front line fighting against ETA, and we won it. Everyone. Let us not be frivolous, we have all been and continue to obey the law; we continue to comply with the law. We do not fulfill revenge, we comply with the law, we beat ETA by applying the law and we continue to comply with the law, because - don't forget - Spain is a democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs López Álvarez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u168	Minister, I have to tell you: what a cowardly way to defend your prison policy. His speech today is the betrayal of Spain. You have wanted to justify the unjustifiable, and the worst is that you know it, even being a judge and knowing it, and even though the National Court has revoked against the decision of the Interior the release of the Íñigo Gutiérrez era, a decision of you against the unanimous vote of the professionals of the prison of Aranjuez, who in your report pick up the risk of the medium-high incidence and who, as I say, voted to keep it in second degree; and even though last week the Central Court of Prison Surveillance of the National Court also revoked the third degree that the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions granted to the Crespo era, because the National Court concludes that the Interior, you, granted him semi-freedom without the prisoner meeting the requirements. [[shows a photocopy that reads: A story that Marlaska benefited from goes back to prison because he asked for forgiveness with 'utilitarian purpose']] [[shows another photocopy]] And they are not the only ones, since the National Court revoked a few months ago also a progression of degree to a terrorist, granted by the Ministry of the Interior. Do you remember? To Unai Fano, because the National Court considered that the granting of the third degree was premature and impropriety. And above all, you are not able to be a decent minister, a whole person and leave, because you have ascended to this rostrum defending the indefensible. Denying evidence makes it even more unworthy. Reiterating his lies makes him even more tracer. Because it is traceable laclandestinity of its policy and its ambush to Prison Institutions and its professionals, in addition to handling - you do - the pain of the victims of terrorism, and that is what you have done in your intervention. [[Applauds]] I deeply regret that I have no respect for all those who lost their lives by wearing a uniform to work with, by being the children of those who carried it and all those victims who were not respected by their sacred right to live. Today, as at the time, it is very expensive to defend our homeland and the law, because, in the face of the third degrees granted so far and which are being revoked by the National Court thanks to the resources of the Public Prosecutor's Office, what will your State Attorney General do in March in the election of the new Chief Public Prosecutor of the National Court? Will this government again yield to pressure and blackmail by not renewing the current chief prosecutor and his prison coordinator prosecutor? Are they going to take reprisals against them, as ETA's heirs are already demanding them to pave the way for the release of ETA prisoners? Justify this: The abertzale left mobilizes against the prosecutor who stops the release of ETA prisoners. [[Show a photocopy]] Justify it. But, Mr Marlaska, in this bis a bis between you and me, one thing has become clear, that you do not respect so much blood spilled in the name of Spain, that you only know how to cover up your shames as a minister with miserable speeches like the one you just offered us, speeches that leave you in evidence, leave you in evidence your lack of humanity. St. Augustine of Hippo has already said: where there is no charity, there can be no justice. [[Applauds]] Your intervention here today, at the headquarters of the national government, has been the intervention of a fugitive, because you have defended here today your prison policy by favoring the hands they pointed out, the bloodstained hands of the bloodthirsty terrorists of ETA, and you have done so by saying that you have no escape, that you do not get rid of the condemnation of being the greatest traitor to the victims of terrorism, to their memory, to the truth and to justice. I will allow myself today to finish my inquiry as I began, honoring the noble body of Prison Institutions so that the Virgin of the Merced, her patroness, will always take care of them and protect them, especially while you are at the head of the Interior, and honoring the hearts of the victims of terrorism, honoring the dignity of their families, because they know what they are wounded that they do not age and that, of course, today they cannot believe that destiny was to be this, to claim to the Minister of the Interior of the Government of Spain justice and dignity in the face of treason and conspiracy. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u169	I give the floor, on behalf of the Government and to conclude the debate, to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Your Honor, I will start by saying something very clear: you have given no information regarding the failure of the Ministry of the Interior and this Government to implement prison legislation. I say to you again: there has been no negotiation, no negotiation or negotiation of the application of prison legislation. His speech has been full of falsehoods. It talks about the third degree and I do not want to forget this question to see if they are already quiet, because in no data from the Civil Guard report is there any reference to non-compliance with prison legislation. You're talking about revoked third-degrees. I know that without success, but I'm going to ask you not to manipulate with biased data. I know it won't succeed, but I'm going to repeat it twice in the five minutes I have. Twenty-four third degree progressions have been agreed in this legislature for prisoners of the terrorist organization of ETA. Three of them have been revoked in court, as you say, while, to the contrary, three other senior prisoners whom we had denied the third degree have been returned by court decision: Pedro José Picavea Ugalde, in March 2019, Juan Carlos Herrador Pouso, in August 2020, and Antonio Troitiño Arranz, in January 2021. Legal and guarantee system, Your Honor. These are the actual data and show that, as we have said, all decisions taken by penitentiary institutions, including those affecting ETA prisoners, are based solely on legality and subject to judicial control. That's how the rule of law works, I don't know if you're already aware of it. Enforcement is not negotiated, has not been negotiated and will not be negotiated. All these decisions are made in accordance with the law, with judicial control and with complete transparency, having communicated each of them, first, to the victims and, then, to society through the media. I'll tell you again, there's no negotiation. I will repeat the data: twenty-four third degree progressions for prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA during this legislature; three of them, as you have said, have been revoked in judicial proceedings, while three other progressions were granted by the judicial authority when they resorted to our rejections, from Prison Institutions, of that progression. I tell the people: Pedro José Picavea Ugalde, in March 2019, Juan Carlos Herrador Pouso, in August 2020, and Antonio Troitiño Arranz, in January 2021. I say it again: it is not negotiated, it has not been negotiated and it will not be negotiated. Transparency? During the governments of the People's Party, when ETA was killing, killing, when we were many facing and on the front line, as was the duty of every official - that is to be patriotic, perfectly fulfilling our duty as officials, as citizens and as a society; that is to be patriotic, not other things, not talking too much about it, but doing and with facts - 805 prisoners were transferred; first, 575 prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA between 1996 and 2004, while the people you referred to were kidnapped or killed or killed. You continue to lack the truth; you continue to lack the truth, as with third degrees, and that is very serious. Playing with terrorism in a society that has defeated ETA is very serious. Twenty-four grade progressions, three revoked, but in three that we had rejected, the third grade progression was granted by the judiciary. With this, please do not lie; do not lie, do not play with terrorism, do not play with the victims of terrorism. Don't miss the truth. And tell them something that all the victims of terrorism - all the victims of terrorism - we know: ETA was defeated with the law and with all the effort that the whole of Spanish society put into it. If this isn't enough for them to shut up, for them to shut up at once... [[shows a document]] Because in Spain the law is enforced. Callen and don't miss the truth, please. I respect the victims of terrorism, respect for the history of Spain, and we have left to defeat the terrorist organization ETA that has caused us so much damage, and we are still seeing it in debates like these, where some are allowed to frivolize, to miss the truth, which is, in that sense, to miss so much effort and so many people to defeat the terrorist organization ETA. His is full of falsehoods, ruin and slander. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u171	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the policy of the Ministry of the Interior for the prevention and eradication of the criminal activity of organized and violent groups of young people. [[File number 172/000171]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u172	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the policy of the Ministry of the Interior for the prevention and eradication of the criminal activity of organized and violent youth groups. For your defence, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin as a Galician showing all our support and comfort, in the tremendous moments that are being lived, to all the families of the crew of the Galician boat Villa de Pitanxo, sunk in the waters of Canada. Again, the people of the sea are beaten in a very harsh way. It's a sad day for Galician fishing. This time it was not in our sea of Galicia, but it will always be our people, our people of the sea. [[Applauds]] Mr. Marlaska, what an obsession you have with PP. If the PP's interpellation is now! Now I would have to answer all the nonsense you said against the People's Party in the previous inquiry. You, Mr Marlasca, should not be here today; today you and the entire dome of the Ministry of the Interior should have resigned, or should have ceased, after the marketing of votes for prisoners. You, Mr Marlaska, are the most paradigmatic example of the democratic degradation to which Mr Sánchez leads us. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the safety X-ray in Spain, which cannot be more discouraging. The crime rate increased by 8.5 per cent. Sexual assault, 30%. Tumultuous fighting and youth injuries in Spanish cities increased by 16%. Massive fighting and youth riots are repeated every weekend in all Spanish cities, all of them, without the Minister of the Interior doing anything. Spain is the collage of immigrants from Europe; we started this year 2022 with 30.6% more immigrants in Spain and 53.8% more immigrants in the Canary Islands, without the Minister of the Interior doing anything. On average, more than 18,000 homes are illegally occupied a year in Spain and snatched from their legitimate owners, without the Minister of the Interior doing anything. The principle of authority is broken, and on average, thirty-two police and civilian guards are assaulted every day, without the minister doing anything. On average, a prison official is assaulted every thirty-six hours, without the Minister of the Interior doing anything, on the contrary, issuing instructions calling into question the good work of prison officials. [[Applauds]] As the crime rate increases, instructions are issued by the Ministry of the Interior to grant third degrees and release criminals and murderers, such as that of the child of Lardero. Youth gangs and teenage assaults increased to cause two deaths and several injuries last weekend. On average, aggression occurs every three days, without the Minister of the Interior doing anything. Yesterday there were attacks among young people in several cities in Spain. If you do nothing for the security of Spain, you have to ask yourself: what does the Minister of the Interior devote time to? What does Marlaska do? I give you six examples of what you do: one, to monitor the networks and spy on the Spaniards so that we do not criticize the government; two, to carry out ideological political purges in the Civil Guard and the National Police, ceasing public servants; three, to facilitate the illegal entry into Spain of Delcy and deGali; four, to propagate bulls against the opposition in favor of the government; five, to create a plot to favor prisoners of age in exchange for five votes from Bildu; six, to dismantle the police and the Civil Guard in Catalonia, allowing harassment to them and their families to please Catalan independence. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, it is too late to solve the problem of criminal gangs of violent gangs: there have had to be two killings of machetes and several wounded in order for something to be done. Between Madrid, where more than 2500 young people make up these bands, and other large cities, such as Bilbao, Seville, Pamplona, Barcelona or Valencia, 600 youth bands are distributed that are creating a feeling of insecurity in Spain. The social alarm generated by the extremely violent deaths of criminal gangs in certain areas of Spain has focused on their composition and the use of minors for the commission of crimes. The problem of violent youth gangs is growing in Spain. Gang members follow the guidelines of the worst Latin maras and, more importantly, capture and use children for the commission of their crimes. According to police data, 40% of detainees are minors: children of 11 years of age, because they know that up to 14 years of age are not liable for committing crimes, and between 14 and 18 years of age, because they know that they have favourable treatment in criminal matters. What better idea for a criminal organization dedicated to drug trafficking, robbery with violence and sexual exploitation than to have among its members minors? The business is round, and above all these children have to pay a fee to join these organizations, whose quota collection in Madrid already amounts to 9.6 million euros. You, Minister of the Interior, didn't know all this? Well, look, before these two deaths, he was warned on several occasions. First, last October, the Madrid Prosecutor's Office warns of the increase in street gangs and the growing violence, and you do nothing. Secondly, last year it is known that Mara Salvatrucha, one of the most violent, arrives in Madrid, and you do nothing. Thirdly, the GAR, UPR and IPU police units have repeatedly warned of the rise of knife attacks, the proliferation of white weapons among young people, and you do nothing. Fourthly, the information brigades were asked to be strengthened with more human and material resources, as these intelligence services are the ones who can anticipate and prevent this problem from getting worse, and you did nothing. Fifth, you were asked to strengthen the patrol services on weekends, and you did nothing; the same patrols are still coming out on weekends than during the week. Sixth, the police warned that there are more and more youth gangs on the streets and that they act more frequently and violence, and you did nothing. Seventh, there is the Plan of Police Action and Coordination against Organized and Violent Youth Groups, which was approved by the People's Party in 2014, and you didn't do anything, not even update it. And, eighthly, Mr. Marlaska, and worst of all, the head of the band that caused the death of two young men in Madrid continued to give orders from prison, with mobile phone included. It is noted that this prisoner was not from ETA, that he was not one of those 209 ETA killer prisoners that you care so much about. You have created a plot to favor and benefit ETA prisoners. After the 2019 elections, Sánchez said that with Bildu nothing was being negotiated, but, while Mr Marlaska, from the Interior, negotiated everything with ETA and Bildu. Today we know that, through contacts of the Secretary-General of Prison Institutions himself with representatives of the proetarian world, meetings, rapprochement of prisoners and privileged information were facilitated and decisions were shared on prisoners of ETA. And now you dare to say that these contacts are institutional relations. You, Mr. Marlaska, have no shame. Institutional relationship is that you maintain contact with my partner Jaime Mateu and not with Jaime Mateu's brother's killer. [[Applauds]] That is institutional relations and what you do is an institutional plot, an institutional mafia. Today, on several occasions, you said that you were on the front line. Well, look, you should have more sensitivity and empathy with people like Jaime Mateu, because you got rid of it, but your father and brother didn't get rid of it and over 850 Spaniards didn't get rid of it either. [[Applauds]] Therefore, you should have more sensitivity and not boast of being on the front line and being freed. You, Mr Marlaska, are capable of everything, even capable of obeying ETA, so as to remain a minister, Mr Marlaska. These facts are extremely serious. They represent an affront to the victims of capital proportions, a betrayal of the memory of the dead, a whole plot to favor the prisoners of ETA. The People's Group has requested that you and your nauseous prison policy be investigated in the Congress of Deputies. And, look, you're talking about law enforcement. Is it law-abiding to hang out with prisoners? How many prisoners did Mr. Ortiz go with in Spain? In passing, I ask you if you think it's law enforcement and say: hey, Mr. Ortiz, would you like to ask you if it would not be possible for this transfer, that it be a passenger, so that you can go to a destination closer to your family and find a centre where you have companions. This is prevarication, Mr. Marlaska, looking for a tailor-made center for an ETA prisoner. In other words, the electoral environment may not be the most appropriate, but we will appreciate the movement very positively. These are wasaps and you know them. How do you say they don't exist? And they're being investigated by the Civil Guard. Well, you shouldn't worry about that leader of the street gang because he was very busy worrying about ETA prisoners, but that prisoner, that gang, caused two deaths in Madrid. You don't have time to control the gang members, do you, Mr. Marlaska?He doesn't have it, those who are incarcerated. You were too busy. It seems to you that the security of Madrid does not interest you or only interest you when you can design campaigns against the opposition by manipulating the reality, as with the homophobic case in Malasaña or with bullets and knives in electoral campaign. [[Applauds]] That's what he's worried about. In this case, the youth gangs, you did the opposite, deny and hide the evidence. First, they say there is no more violence in the bands, but isolated facts in the same space of time. Mr. Marlaska, do you think eight stabbings on the same night is a timely fact? Then, they say there is no resuming, but it turns out that the number of detainees increases. Then, they consider that the IPU is not necessary to strengthen the special device because it is not a matter of public order, but in front of the headquarters of the PSOE in Ferraz it remains, if any. They deny the problem, they say there is no rush, but they activate the cops and ask for discretion. While you're asking for discretion, you're poaching an operation with a drum and a platter. And while the Civil Guard discreetly detains eleven members of the gangs in the villages around Madrid. And, meanwhile, you do not put in place a plan to curtail the access and sale of white weapons that these youth gangs use, allowing them to continue to be acquired with total ease, even via the Internet, and for less than 50 euros. You were trying to give a false sense of security trying to sell this operation. Mr. Marlaska, wake up. Wake up. How many more young people have to die for you to see the problem, become aware and do something? How many young people must die for you to do something, Mr Marlaska? How many? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u174	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vázquez, what cannot be done is an interpellation with your tweet speech; of course, with so many characters as things are mixed together. I already knew that I was going to mix everything: that if ETA, that you victimize terrorism, that if monitoring the networks. Keep a speech, please, in an interpellation of a subject as serious and as important as crime, in clear terms. [[Rumors]] It does bother you, doesn't it? I do not confront victims of terrorism, Mrs Vázquez, but I can confront you, because, unlike you, I have been very much in the public service and in the front line. But in the Public Service, can I explain myself? Also outside the Chamber, with all due respect to all Members of this House, because we are doing essential work for democracy. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] But I, unlike you, have spent thirty years in the Public Service, and many in the front line, yes, in the front line, fighting against the barbarity of ETA. So, I know something about it; I know. With which, what I will not allow is that you banalize my position in relation to ETA, with the defeated ETA. [[Rumors]] I won't let you. Yeah, look at me, I'm not gonna let you. Because I think that you and I can talk a lot, even though I'm a little bit more than you, that's true. [[Applauds]] As I did in the Senate, apart from joining in his solidarity with all the men and women of the sea, of Galicia, at some tragic moments, I want my first words in this inquiry to also express and express the Government's solidarity with the families and friends of those who have recently lost their lives because of these violent episodes, which underlie his inquiry. Mrs Vázquez, you didn't care much about making an inquiry based on an argumentary and two teletypes, although you then mixed it all up. It is true that he did not care much, and perhaps it was for this reason that I will comment later on his policy on crime in Mr Rajoy's governments. It brings with it the temptation for the interpeller to try to distort the meaning of two press notes to add dramatism, yes, and fatality in speeches that eventually end up being plagued with errors, I would say, even falsehoods. I sincerely believe that this has happened in your speech, and something sadder. However, I believe that your initiative can have value at parliamentary level, so that you, as the main opposition party - although sometimes it does not seem so - and we, from the government, can exchange proposals and measures to improve public security policies, in this case concerning the fight against violence by organized groups. The first thing I would like to highlight is that we live in a safe country, even if you have given us or wanted to transfer another image of it. It is not a free statement, but the contrasted data of having achieved the lowest crime rate in five years in 2021; it has not increased, Mrs Vázquez. In this sense, since 2018, the number of criminal offences that have been known to the various State Security Forces and Bodies has fallen from 2.1 million to 1.4 million; that is, we are talking about a reduction of 700,000 criminal acts in almost four years. This data is being preached from Spain, but also from the Community of Madrid, which is also a safe region: in the same period of time, the criminal offences known by the State Security Forces and Corpses have been reduced here in Madrid no less than 70,000. Therefore, your alarmist speech, in that race that you have with the far right, as we have seen in the two interpellations, to see who poses the greatest exaggeration, is simply false, as everything that has spilled. Spain is a secure society and its capital also, as, by the way, it has recognized someone so unsuspecting of sympathizing with the Government as is President Isabel Díaz Ayuso. And how have we come to this situation? Well, I'll explain it to you with a headline and some data, like headlines that you like for tweets. The headline: because you are not in the government, that is why Spain is safer. And the data relates to us doing policies that are contrary to what you did while you occupied the Ministry of the Interior. Because, look at the two teletypes in which you support your yesterday's initiatives and today you speak of the need for more means. Look, I don't have any problem in recognizing that you need to be effective, and you need it because in seven years you have suppressed - I tell you many times, but you still insist - 13,000 police and civilian guards. This means that for every year you were in the government, 1857 agents were abolished. In particular, in the Community of Madrid you cut nothing short of 2,000 members of the State Security Forces and Corpses - I repeat, 2000 - i.e. that out of every hundred members you cut fifteen were destined in the Community of Madrid; that every month you ruled left the Community of Madrid without 23 officers. It's hard data, but it's reality, what you do in safety when you rule: cut, cut, and cut. These are data, they are not tweets, to which you have dedicated for twelve minutes to launch falsehoods without any meaning and without any connection. This is something that contrasts with what socialists do, that we understand that security is a public good and an essential pillar of our democracy and our welfare state. That is why we, from the Government of Spain, have created 10,000 posts - net - of National Police and Civil Guard since 2018. Those are many more places on public offer. In other words, nine new positions of State Security Forces and Corps officers are created every day with this Government. Your Honor, that you are asking for more personal means seems right to me, but you lack credibility because you have been the most predatory public security party in Spain. Nor can you have credibility if you ask for material means. I will give you various data: 600 million of the State Security Infrastructure Plan -117 for the Community of Madrid -; modernization of equipment; vests; cars, and in general material means, which you know by the different appearances of the high offices when presenting them General State Budgets of 2021 and 2022. That you, from two teletypes with which you build this intervention, ask for strategic measures... I think you're too late. First of all, because they already exist. I myself have explained this at parliamentary level - there I have my appearance on 17 February 2020; read it - but believe me that I have no problem in continuing to explain it. Master plan for the improvement of coexistence and security in educational establishments and their environments. Police action plan and coordination in relation to continuously updated youth-based violent organized groups. Plan for the intensification of surveillance in youth leisure areas of the Civil Guard. And plan of white weapons of the Civil Guard or fight against these kinds of phenomena, as priority objective of the Chief of Police of Madrid. They have been in force for a long time, since we are in the Government. At this point, he heard his party endorse the argument that the repeal - yesterday I heard in the Senate - of the Law on Citizen Security reinforces the youth gangs - yesterday reminded me of it. Look, it seems to me a terrible excuse, first of all because because of the harshness that is used in a legal text, what puts society at risk are cuts in public services, such as security. That's what puts society at risk, cuts in security, as you did. I always say: with the Socialist Government, 0.62 of GDP is in the area of security and when you are there is 0.50. It's an important matter. And remember what someone from your party said: the security that everyone pays for it. But above all I find it truly deplorable, and I am sorry to tell you in such a direct way, that you have taken advantage of criminal acts that have cost several people their lives to try to put election messages. It is regrettable and the umpteenth sign of his intellectual contempt for the citizens of our country. That's right. Therefore, while we see that you and your right-wing partners - as we have also seen - try to confuse us with games of words and misrepresentations, there is something that all of your manipulation cannot hide, and that is that we live in a safe country, where the Government invests in the State Security Forces and Bodies and where the Government works in strategic measures in the face of certain environments of violent risk. These are the facts and are irrefutable. It is true that zero risk does not exist, it is true that we can attend reports of criminal activities at some point that can generate some alarm, but always in a safe country context. Faced with this situation, and in addition to the Government's security policies, we have anticipated measures that were already implemented before you could read those two teletypes recorded in this inquiry. And it is that, Mr President, as you all know, from the government we have activated a special device since last February 10th, to the elderly; a device equipped with three strategic actions. The first is to deploy an additional 514 troops from the State Security Forces and Corpses, including officers from the police station's personal information brigades, mobile section, cavalry units or citizen care groups. This deployment aims, on the one hand, to strengthen prevention in the face of violent events and, on the other, to have a reactive capacity and to detect and identify members of violent organizations. The second is the definition of district areas, where to act and where to apply it. And, the third, strengthening the presence of the Civil Guard in other locations deployed in the community. This weekend the situation in the capital has been completely quiet - we have to congratulate ourselves - and, within the framework of the police device, more than 2,300 identifications have been practiced. I would therefore like to thank the government delegate, Mercedes González, for the work done at the head of the device, as well as all the units of the National Police and the Civil Guard that have been deployed. But do you know why, in the face of these concrete situations that have arisen, but always in a security context, we can take these measures, such as the deployment of 514 agents, etc.? Because we invest in security. With you, of course, it would have been impossible, because you had an attitude of depredation and, of course, of amortization of all services, in particular of police and civilian guards. As we invest in security, we can take complementary measures in situations that require it, but always, I say again, in a security context. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u176	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vazquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u177	Look, Mr. Marlaska, the only predator we know here is you, the predator of the rule of law. We don't know anyone else. [[Applauds]] I realized today that I'm being monitored. All Spaniards who want to send a message to Mr Marlaska who let me know and I put it on my Twitter every morning. You already know that you dedicated a message of good morning every morning with #Marlaska Resignation. I hope someday he listens to me and leaves. But, however, whatever you want Mr Marlaska to know, you will transfer him to me and he will be monitored every morning, so that you know that we are all being watched. And, by the way, I liked that today you congratulated us on the plans that the People's Party has set in motion against violent gangs, because you haven't done any today; as I told you before, you didn't even update it. You don't just do it, but you undo it, Mr. Marlaska. Instead of tightening the law, which is what is now needed to combat street violence, they are going to reform the Law on Citizen Security, which will encamp these gangs wide. Yeah, I got him ready now, in the replica, 'cause he wasn't giving me time. And I'm gonna tell you why. Indeed, you are a public official, but I also know the security issues. I did not exercise as you do, but someday I will exercise, do not worry, and therefore I also know and care about security issues, which I like and defend passionately, as you will defend legal issues. Look, they're going to repeal a law that's now going to pass. I'm in that paper - you're not - listening to all your partners, these of Bildu and Esquerra - if you don't approve what they tell you won't get the law ahead, I'm telling you - and they're going to leave citizens more unprotected now, because they're going to restrict the caches. It was approved in the paper yesterday. They're going to restrict these young people's searches. They will repeal a law on citizen security, and change the extension, by another law that will allow foreigners not to be identified. Do you know that Bildu and Esquerra have the speech stopped because they want to approve the BNG amendment that asks not to identify foreigners? Instead of strengthening the Law on Citizen Security by increasing the penalties for possession of prohibited and white weapons, which is now a serious offence, and we will support it so that it is a very serious offence, they will pass a law in which the sanction will be minimal, because now they will pay according to the resources that the offender has. The reform of the Citizens' Security Act will give more wings to drug trafficking, which is one of the sources of funding that these gangs have. You don't need to look at me, Mr. Marlaska, you carry all the interpellation - the one before and the one now - looking at the phone, and then you tell me, at a time I was talking to Mr. Mateu, to look at you. I repeat, you don't need to look at me, you just listen. [[Applauds]] But not enough with all this, yesterday, in the paper, pretends that minors are not subject to liability in the law of citizen security, that is, all these young people in the violent gangs will no longer have consequences for their actions; I repeat yesterday, at eleven o'clock in the morning, in the paper on the law of citizen security. Instead of softening the law, Mr Marlaska, it is necessary to strengthen and tighten the law, penalize for capturing minors to commit crimes, that do not see these gangs that it is a chollo to catch minors to commit crimes. Sanctions and the Criminal Code need to be addressed more harshly. It takes quick and decisive action to tackle the problem of insecurity that we are living in all Spanish cities, seeing how every weekend there are attacks by young people in the cities. They make a police response plan for eleven districts of the city of Madrid and Parla, and for the rest of the villages they do nothing, which is where the Civil Guard has accidentally arrested eleven of the members of these gangs who had caused these deaths. And for the rest of the cities of Spain, what are you going to do, Mr Marlaska, what are you going to do? Yesterday there were arrests in Zaragoza and violent acts in Valencia. What are you going to do? Mr Marlaska, an urgent and global response is needed for the violence of young people throughout Spain, and not just a patch for Madrid. It is sad and worrying that citizens perceive that the Ministry of the Interior, which you run, works for the benefit of those who violate the law and not to protect those who comply with the law, works for criminals instead of working for victims. Mr. Marlaska, the ministry won't go any better if you solve everything by lashing out at the opposition, because that's not the solution - I know we're going bad time, don't worry, it's over now -. Perhaps the solution will pass because once and for all you listen to us, because once and for all you look in the mirror and keep in mind that it is better to leave now and let others be able to straighten the course. Go away, Mr. Marlasca! Get out of here! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u178	To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Vazquez, so your followers are monitoring you. Don't you want to have followers on Twitter? That's why you have social media. I'm not your follower, no. It's clear I have enough to listen to you in the interpellations here. That's enough for me because it always repeats the same thing, I don't think there's any news about it. [[rumors]] But I will tell you one question: be a little more considerate with the State Security Forces and Corpses, because the operative devices to which you referred in eleven districts of Madrid and the Civil Guard in other areas, etc., are determined by the professionals, the great professionals we have, which are the Police and the Civil Guard, not the Ministry of the Interior, not the Minister of the Interior. What the Minister of the Interior does is to give them means, personal means, material means and obviously a security policy, that is to say, he directs security policy, what needs to be worked on and what needs to be addressed. And the security plan of this Government, of course, is not to cover up our shames, as used by other governments. In that regard, I say to you again, I understand and understand that you want to wear down the Government; I understand and understand that, in the face of our security model as a public service, you defend a policy of suppression of troops, and you carried it out. Sometimes the ones already told, when responsible for the People's Party even said some truth, as I told you before: security for which it is paid. You remember that, don't you? Or also, something that hurts you but I will remind you, how they treated the State Security Forces deployed in Barcelona in 2017, right? The Piolin is the image of what security forces and bodies are for you and how you should treat them. That's it. You can't come to Congress to pose an inquiry with two press releases, I say again, as a tweet. In the end it ends up falling into what, unfortunately, has fallen its party yesterday and today: falsehood and exaggeration. Your Honor, Spain is a safe country. It's not because you brought into our lives the law of gags, the law of citizen security; a law questioned, which even the Constitutional Court has referred to how what is not constitutional in it should be interpreted already. And that's what the reform of it goes to. Don't say falsehoods here, in the rostrum, about the paper, because with that law all you were looking for was to protect yourself; yes, to protect yourself, already fed up with cuts and corruption as we were. Using unfortunate facts or events - I will tell you more directly -, using the pain of society to place its electoral slogans is, simply, regrettable and improper of a government party. Think about it, because that drift explains much of all the electoral failures that are being reaped. [[Protests]] I know it bothers you... Yeah, yeah, but we're a safe country and the crime rate is the lowest in five years. That's the data. Nine Police and Civil Guard places have been created per day, 10,000 net places in three years; investments are made in infrastructure, and strategic planning is promoted in response to certain criminal phenomena. I would like to remind you again of all the plans that are being updated: the Master Plan for Security Improvement, the Police Action and Coordination Plan for Violent Youth Groups, the Leisure Surveillance Plan and the White Weapons Plan. But do you think this didn't exist before 2012? Do you think it didn't exist? It's being updated, we're even expanding and generating more plans. And those plans, if they are to be effective, must be equipped with means; if not, difficult. So to act against the phenomenon of crime, in the face of rhetorical measures, we take effective measures, political measures but above all public measures, which is the big difference between you and us. Measures in general favour of the work of our troops: 514 reinforcement troops, 11 action areas. That is, we give the devices, personal and material means that our State Security Forces and Bodies need to remain as effective as possible and to guarantee and improve security in the terms I have indicated to you and not falsehoods. Not falsehoods such as the third degree I have already exposed to you, the cases of the terrorist organization ETA. The law is enforced; it is enforced and will continue to be enforced. In security, we invest, work and generate security for society as a whole. Stop falsifying the data, stop missing the truth, stop generating social alarm when there is no reason. Work a little longer, and I recommend that it is very important to work in the public sector and then defend it in a place as illustrious and important as the Congress of Deputies. We have to work first and then come to improve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u180	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on measures to reduce the disparate costs of industrial production, to regain its competitiveness and to defend employment, with particular reference to the increasing number of jobs for different sectors, including that of the electrical industry, as well as to the disappearance of the lightning and gas plants. [[LORD MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA]] [[File number 172/000168]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u181	Urgent debate by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on measures to attenuate the crazy costs of industrial production, regain their competitiveness and defend employment, with particular reference to the growing uncertainty for different sectors, including the electro-intensive industry, as well as the disappearance of the aluminium plants in Asturias and Galicia. For your defence, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism. This is the eighth question I address to the Government in this XIV Legislature and the second one you answer to me. Industry is a key issue for which it called for the highest political priority. Therefore, with this parliamentary initiative, he tries to bring back to the debate of the plenary of Congress his bad situation, aggravated by the very high energy costs, although it is also another bad sign the recent report that places Spain at the tail of the countries of the European Union for the recovery of the pre-pandemic growth levels. Ladies and gentlemen, since June 2018, following the unjust motion of censure against Mariano Rajoy, industrial issues have been relegated and very conditioned by the energetic bandages and the decisions of the third vice president and minister for the ecological transition, Teresa Ribera, to which it is possible to attribute - always under the indications of President Pedro Sánchez - the main responsibility in the aftermath and in the measures that from the minute one of his stay in Moncloa have been penalizing the economy and that has dragged to pay the Spanish society the bill of the most expensive electricity in history, decisive element of an escalation of the inflation that has returned Spain to thresholds of thirty years ago nothing less. At the harmful cost of the current economic imbalance - camouflaged by the multi-million-dollar injection of European aid, the distribution of which is beginning to be more than reasonable doubts - there are mixed economic forecasts from the Government absolutely wrong, as we have pointed out uselessly from the opposition in the respective budgetary amendments. And the result has led - in the specific case of our ill-treated industry - to reconsider investor plans, production cuts and job losses. The commitment to reduce the receipt of light, acquired here in this rostrum, in the debate on the investiture of the current mandate, has been flagrantly unfulfilled. The agreement of the communist social coalition at the end of 2019, after the last general elections, sealed with the embrace of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias, has also been failed in terms of industry, because far from the improvement of competitiveness and the creation of quality jobs, today there is a horizon of increasing uncertainty in which the contribution of industry to the gross domestic product decreases, away from the average and from the European objectives. Now, in this crucial issue of energy, the government is like the two rabbits in the old Tomás de Iriarte fable, wondering whether they are galgos or potents, whether the European sustainable green label applies to nuclear energy and gas, or whether we will end up declaring ourselves insubstantial. Meanwhile, France, in order to protect its energy and industrial independence, has just announced, through President Macron, the construction of six new generation nuclear reactors and will study the possibility of another eight in the coming years. I repeat, in defense of its energy and industrial independence. Madam Minister, here in Spain, the different strategic sectors, grouped around the so-called Alliance for the Competitiveness of Spanish Industry, demanded just a week ago the immediate adoption of additional measures to those taken so far in the face of the persistence of very high prices in the electricity and gas markets that multiply the usual prices. It is a representative call for attention that should not fall into a broken bag, because it should be remembered that such an alliance consists of seven sectoral associations, whose companies generate 50% of the gross industrial product, half of the industrial exports and 50% of the investment in R & D+i. In terms of employment, they provide 2.8 million direct, indirect and induced jobs. Surely you, Mrs Maroto, are aware of the manifesto in its entirety, which, on the other hand, contains nothing new in the complaints you have heard over the course of three years and eight months of ministerial responsibility, a period in which Spanish industry has been seriously declining. Valgan as shown by the latest official data of the National Institute of Statistics, published three weeks ago, pointing to the disparate costs of industrial production in Spain. The specific case of Asturias, my community of origin, is even more tearing, since in 2012 the increase was 102.5% in one year, compared to 35.9% in the country. Let me show you this graphic demolator, which reflects the industrial price index. [[Show a chart]] This huge red barrier represents Asturias's rise in energy, almost 218% compared to 96% of the national rise, which is also a great nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain, the call for alarm from sectors as relevant to the economy and employment as car, steel, chemistry, oil, paper, cement, food and drink, has led - who was going to tell us after so much arrogance - to Mrs Rivera's recognition of Spain's inequality in competing with European countries like Germany and France, which are revealing 36,000 and 21 billion euros, respectively, to help consumers and industries compensate for the rise in electricity and gas. Here we have been listening to the stubborn pretext that the European Union did not authorise such aid and it is now revealed that other competing countries are applying it to help their industry. Our Government has had us fooled and has not defended national interests in the Community institutions. In Spain, only 5 billion have been allocated to lower the final bill for small consumers by means of taxes, while businesses have barely received aid for a mere 500 million. And what have our European counterparts done? In Germany, I repeat, they have 36 billion to compensate consumers and industries, six times more than Spain. Nor does France lag behind to contain the rise in energy and has spent 21 billion, more than three times as much as Spain to contain the rise. Mrs Maroto, I do not know how you have taken the unprecedented boast of sincerity of your colleague from the Council of Ministers in the wake of the Alliance's call for attention to the competitiveness of Spanish industry after acknowledging, for the first time in a public intervention, that inequality in the response of different governments to energy escalation can have the effect of relocation. This is the consequence of the price difference between some countries and Spain. This is a serious warning that you, I suppose, will have something to say, so you have a risk to the Spanish industry and, consequently, to take urgent measures to mitigate and eliminate threats. Ladies and gentlemen, at the cost of energy we have an industrial and social landscape of deep uncertainty; I repeat, it is not that we say it from the opposition, but that it is also acknowledged by the Vice-President herself, who is responsible on the other hand for an ecological transition based on radicalism, who crushed our energy sovereignty and shut down power generation power plants, two of them in Asturias, without socio-economic alternatives and without having guaranteed supply. Moreover, in an irresponsible way and after many months of administrative pastime, it approved an electro-intensive consumer status that has been in force for 14 months and that, as some of us have already warned in the process of public information, does not by far respond to the needs of the electricity-intensive industry. Moreover, the instrument deepens a lack of equity between territories and a feeling of contempt. Where is the constitutional guarantee of solidarity and equality with this Government? Minister, the government is not paying due attention to industry. Otherwise, this debate and others on the same subject held in Congress, in the Senate and in the autonomous communities concerned would have no place and are, however, recurrent. So much so that in the last plenary session a proposal for a law of the General Council of the Principality of Asturias to declare the strategic nature of the very high-energy energy consumption industry based in Spain was taken into consideration here, in this very House, with a large majority and with no votes against. In the explanatory statement, it states: '...if such a declaration did not take place, it means, in fact, the definitive condemnation of the Spanish industry which is highly consuming of electricity'. That is what we have come to, Minister, which the autonomous parliaments of Asturias, Galicia and Cantabria are calling for and calling for in the face of the noise of the government and the suffocating energy policy. Mrs Maroto, ladies and gentlemen, I would finally like to refer in this question to a regrettable fact, because Spain is about to go into history, and you, in particular, as the minister responsible for the Ministry of Industry under whose mandate aluminium production in our country has been extinguished and with it the loss of hundreds of jobs. In Asturias, workers of the former Alcoa are considered deceived by the Governments of Sánchez and Barbón, both riding and riding. In Galicia, an identical feeling, although there the government of Núñez Feijóo has not remained silent, proposing future actions for the La Coruña factory. In the Alcoa case, the Ministry of Industry took full part, covering a failed sale operation, with fraudulent faces, which is now clarified at the National Court, following police intervention in the factories, and which has the staff plunged into the most absolute uncertainty and despair. Mrs Maroto, 'Alcoa's claim yellow shirt does not close', in addition to exhibiting it, as you did in Avilés for the election campaign, you have to sweat it, especially when the Official State Gazette is at hand to take action on behalf of the workers and a relevant part of the economy of important population regions that are moving towards desertification. I conclude, Mr President, because, ultimately, the worrying diagnoses of the present and immediate future of the industry are raised, but remedies to tackle the different signs and symptoms need the measures and the correctness of the government. Despite reports and propaganda, industry is not on the right track and alarms are ringing more and more strongly. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u183	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u184	Thank you very much, President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, every time you come up to this rostrum shows us a panorama of Asturias, Spain, industry and the very pessimistic economy, a distorted reality that has nothing to do with reality. [[The lady]] I think we have to be serious and rigorous and, indeed, we have to use the data because they are objective, because they are precise, the data do not lie, Your Honor. You have used a data in this forum, the index of industrial prices, but, look, if so catastrophic was the impact that the increase in this indicator has had on industrial activity, how can you explain, Your Honor, that, according to the data published by the INE, the industry is recovering, after the negative impact that the pandemic had. In 2021, your honor, industrial production increased by 7%. This is the largest increase since 1994. Social Security membership in industry has also grown consecutively, Your Honor, every month since March 2021, recovered pre-pandemic levels and we have more than 2.3 million affiliates in industry. The employment data, Your Honor, do not deceive anyone. In addition, Asturias led the increase in industrial production in Spain in 2012, growing by 15.7%, double the national average and the largest increase in the historical series. Companies like Arcelor have had much to do with the resuming of the activity and will continue to do so, Your Honor, because Arcelor has announced that it will invest 1000 million euros to decarbonize the plant of Gijón in the year 2025, a very important project for Asturias and Spain that will also count on other partners such as Fertiberia, Enagas or DH2 energy, who have joined forces to boost the largest hydrogen production complex in the world. You have said nothing about this in your speech. In addition, a project that I have already told you will have the support of the Government of Spain. Also TSK, an Asturian company, will present projects from European funds, with initiatives related to energy storage, biomass or CO2 capture, but other companies, such as Armón or Gondán, want to expand their productive capacity to be able to build more sustainable ships. The Asturian naval sector, Your Honor, is strengthening its leadership in Spain, and proof of this is that half of the contracts initialled by the Spanish shipyards have remained in Asturias. A reality, as I say, of the Asturian industry, of the Spanish industry, very different from what you show us every time you call me in this Congress. An industry that is undoubtedly going to be reinforced by European funds. Last week we approved important strategic projects related to the automotive industry and the agri-food industry and already announced that in a few weeks we will approve in the Council of Ministers the PERTE Naval, a very important PART to strengthen the Asturian naval industry, which aims to transform and modernise the value chain of this sector with four important axes: digitisation, training, the ecological transition and the diversification of its activity. A strategic project that, no doubt, as I said, will benefit the Asturian naval industry, which currently enjoys good health, despite, as I say, the catastrophic discourse that we have to hear every time it comes up to this rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, these very important investments are going to strengthen, as I say, the Asturian industry and also the jobs that will undoubtedly be generated as a result of European funds, to which some groups in this House are committed to boycotting. Without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen, the image of mayors of the People's Party in Brussels is regrettable and demonstrates the lack of patriotism of the People's Party, which is willing to do anything to make Spain suffer. We have seen this recently in the validation of labour reform; a reform, ladies and gentlemen, which dignifies employment, especially of the youngest, and which is agreed with employers and trade unions. A job reform, Mr Martínez Oblanca, which you also voted against. Tell those young people in Asturias who are going to improve their working conditions thanks to the labour reform that, as I say, have agreed between employers and trade unions. But, look, you made reference to the arrival of the government of Pedro Sánchez in the Moncloa, and I will remind your lordship how the exit from the previous financial crisis was. It was an exit, Your Honor, very painful, in which we lost millions of jobs. The unemployment rate rose to over 27% in 2013 and there was a wage devaluation resulting from a labour reform imposed by the People's Party. And I remind you, Your Honor, that the recipes of the previous People's Party government have two qualifications: cuts and austerity, ladies and gentlemen, cuts and austerity. These were the recipes. Mr Martínez Oblanca, between December 2007 and 2013 more than 730,000 jobs were lost in the industrial sector. Industrial employment in our country was destroyed for more than six years. That is the legacy that left us with the disastrous management of the crisis made by the People's Party. However, the exit from the health crisis has been very different. In the Government, we deploy an ambitious safety net to protect jobs and businesses. Employment levels are now at their peak and business start-ups, according to the INE last week, have been at their peak since 2008, with more than 100,000 new companies created. In addition, international and national bodies are forecasting an average growth of 5% in the Spanish economy in the coming years, despite a complex global context, with risks still arising from the effects of the pandemic, geopolitical tensions, bottlenecks in global supply chains or the increase, to which you have referred, in energy prices. Let us talk more specifically about the electro-intensive industry, a strategic industry for this government. I tell you that every time you ask me about it, and we have shown it by taking many measures to support the sector. In the government we are fully aware of the impact that the rise in energy prices is having on industry and that is why we have acted from the very beginning. You have, in fact, referred to this in your speech. In the face of price escalation, the Government launched an important package of measures to reduce the impact of energy costs on companies, especially on electric power plants. We are certainly aware of the impact of this rise, because it is an industry that competes in global markets and, therefore, we have to defend its viability and competitiveness, and that is why we made this effort - you have referred to it - but we also encourage the adoption of the Statute of the Electrointensive Consumer. You criticise me for this, but it was this government - I remind you - that this minister brought to this plenary the adoption of the Statute of the Electrointensive Consumer, thus giving certainty and security to companies about energy costs, and other instruments that we have adopted to strengthen support for the electrointensive industry. You were also talking to me about the lack of effort we are making to support this industry. I always remind you, Your Honor, that when I arrived at the government, the budget I had to make up for the CO2 of the electro-intensive industry was EUR 6 million. Do you know how much the 2022 State General Budgets have? Well, 179 million euros, Your Honor. We've gone from 6 million to 179. [[Applauds]] But, in addition, if you had read the budgets carefully, you would see that we are going to increase this item with revenues from emission allowances auctions, as provided for in the Climate Change Act. But in addition to these 179 million, there is also a new allocation of 91 million for the additional compensations that we have approved in the statute. We also create - as you know - the Spanish Guarantee Guarantee Fund for Electrointensive Entities, a fund endowed with 200 million euros and that will certainly allow the industry to help lower its energy bill, try to reach a stable price and make it more competitive. In short, as I say, commitments are made and can be seen in the General Budgets of the State. Because it is very important that the market for long-term electricity purchase contracts, PPPs, works properly, and that is what we are providing industrial companies with with these guarantees that the fund has. Both the CO2 indirect cost compensation programme and the compensation provided for in the Statute and the Fund are fully targeted, Your Honor, to ensure that industry supports energy costs, is agreed with the European Commission and is compatible with European legislation. In short, ladies and gentlemen, many measures are being taken to alleviate the impact of the rise in electricity prices and we will certainly continue to work - something we always say here -. We respond to the problems of industry, but not only in the short term, but also in the medium and long term. And, ladies and gentlemen, we are also concerned about the increase in transport and raw materials in the markets, which is affecting the whole of world industry and, therefore, also the European and Spanish industries. Indeed, it is because of the transnational nature of this phenomenon that the Government is working with the main Member States of the European Union in the analysis and monitoring of this situation, but also in the adoption of appropriate and effective measures, defending the need for a change in the design of supply chains to make them more resilient and less vulnerable. We need, Your Honor, to bet on strategic autonomy and a new industrial policy at European level that will reduce our dependence on third markets. We are seeing unprecedented prices on the international gas and CO2 markets, which are undoubtedly responsible for rising energy prices and which, as I say, affect not only the domestic market but also the rest of the Member States. That is why, Your Honor, the Government has called for joint and coordinated action at European level in order to allow flexible and homogeneous responses, and ultimately to protect the most affected economic sectors. You have also spoken here of Alu Ibérica, but you have not said anything, Your Honor, that the only culprit in the situation that Alu Ibérica's workers are called Alcoa. Your Honor, I repeat, you have not said anything and the only culprit in the situation that Alu Ibérica's workers are called Alcoa. In the ministry we have been working with the company committees and I do hope, Your Honor, that there will be a definitive solution; of course, this minister not only wears her shirt but also sweats, because if there is someone who is defending the industry in this country, it is the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] The industry deserves us to come to great agreements and I hope that those who defend the industry will also rise to this challenge. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] You have the floor, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you too, Minister, although you should find Úbeda hills very familiar, because it never responds to what is asked of you in the interrogations. You're not a specialist of The squid game, he specializes in squid ink. [[Applauds]] What solutions or remedies does the Government intend to apply to the insurmountable wall of energy costs for competitiveness in industry and for employment? What measures, Minister? The risk of industrial relocation already recognizes it to the Government itself. Five days ago his colleague, that of the bill of light, spoke of relocations. Do you have anything to say? Do you feel alluded to by this very important and key issue for the future of thousands and thousands of workers? On Spain there is a certain possibility that part of industrial production will go to other countries where the energy bill is not as penalized as here. What remains, Mrs Maroto, where state aid can be applied in Spain or is prohibited by the European Union? This is a very important issue, it is as important as that from Spain and from the government we have to defend equal treatment between the countries of the European Union, because otherwise we are going towards discredit. Mrs Maroto, you defend in the Council of Ministers the disguise of the Statute of the Electrointensive Consumer. It is not a receipt that it has been said that it was the only possible statute - you have just defended it here a moment ago - and yet it is now revealed that Germany and France apply aid that multiplies those received by Spanish industry, that, on the other hand, they already had a treatment with discriminatory views and that, in any case, they do not meet by far the expectations of the companies and the communities where this important industry is based. Mrs. Maroto, you say you drew a catastrophic panorama. The diagnosis of the current ills of Spanish industry has just been made to you by your main protagonists, who say - and I quote in text, they said last week - that Spain is increasingly far away from Europe in terms of energy. Anything to say, Mrs. Maroto? They say that the measures taken have not had the desired effect in the industrial sphere. Anything to say, Minister? They say that the forecast of energy prices in 2022 calls for the urgent adoption of additional measures. Anything to do in the State Official Gazette, Minister of Industry? In any case, is there anything to say about these issues that are so crucial to the Spanish economy or are you going to continue to flood us with squid ink cans? Mrs Maroto, the government is recognizing that the upward trend in electricity markets could affect the competitiveness of industry. In Asturias, from one year to another, energy prices have tripled; in Spain as a whole, however, without leaving my land and talking about the great impacts of gas as one of the most determining factors in the escalation of electricity prices, we have in Gijón, in the port facilities of El Musel, a regasification plant hiberned, without service, paralyzed, dead of laughter for nine years. In support of Spain's industry and economy, I urge the Government to take advantage of the available resources, in this case those which should include the regasifier of El Musel, Gijón. Finally, we have a serious problem with supplies and the blocking, their scarcity or lack of them provokes in the production chains important issues, unique case in the automotive. Paradoxically, this delay favours the Government's collection voraciousness. Serves as a show that nothing more and nothing less than 250,000 vehicle buyers last year, to whom the car has not been delivered, will have to pay the tax in 2022. In other words, the government has not solved the problem, but it does charge the prescription to the injured consumers. I conclude, Madam President, by announcing that I will try to take advantage of the opportunity to make a motion in response to an appeal to the Government so that the House, if it sees it that way, can exercise its guiding role in a matter of great importance to Spain. I will not forget, unlike the governments of Spain and Asturias, the workers of the former Alcoa. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u188	Thank you very much, President. The truth, Your Honor, is that I don't know if you're asking me or the third vice president, because she's named her more than I am, but in any case I'm happy to answer. If you have not understood what the support has been as a result not only of the increase in the energy price, but also because this government considers it a priority to accompany the industry is because you have not listened to me, Your Honor. I encourage you, please, when you are done, to listen to what this minister has said, because only with reference to the increase in the budget that we have made in aid as important as CO2 compensation, would that justify an important element of the momentum that this government and this minister are giving to industry. And, indeed, I reproach you that every time you come up to this rostrum, you bring us a reality from Asturias and Spain that I certainly do not share. I do not share it because you know that I am a minister who visits much Asturias; in fact, she is probably the minister who has visited Asturias most. I can tell you that last time I was, for example, at a FP institute in Mieres, I was talking about the internationalization of the Asturian company in Avilés, I was inaugurating the annual forum that celebrates the confederation of hotels on their land, in Oviedo, or I was, for example, proclaiming as a national holiday the derby Princess of Asturias there, in Oviedo. Look at the different reality I see every time I travel to your land. I do see that there is concern, Your Honor, but I also see a lot of enthusiasm for progress, a lot of enthusiasm for developing opportunities, something that you never bring here when you talk about Asturias; let us talk about the problems of Asturias and, of course, we will seek solutions. [[applause]] You have spoken of industrial crises, but I have not heard you speak, for example, of the 120 million euros that through SEPI funds we have injected into Duro Felguera - Duro Felguera, yes, ladies and gentlemen - saving many jobs, a company that, I am convinced, will come forward because it has had the support of this government, not the government of the People's Party, that nothing wanted to know neither of Duro Felguera, nor of Abengoa, nor of so many other companies that this minister has inherited with structural problems and that we are giving them a solution. And yes, Alu Iberiana. Of course we're working for Alu Iberiana! Of course we care about the workers of Alu Iberiana and their families! I insist, this minister is committed to finding solutions. You have come here to defend them, but you have not come here to bring any solution for that company. And you were actually talking about the industry. I refuse to think that someone who defends so much the industry does not support the management that this government is doing of the industry in this country. An industry, ladies and gentlemen, which, according to the data, is creating employment; an industry, ladies and gentlemen, which, according to the data, on its land, in Asturias, has increased industrial production twice as much as the national average. And then you talk about tensions between territories. Of course, social and territorial cohesion is what needs to be done from the point of view of industrial policy. That is why I have announced that we will bring a PART of the naval industry, because of course it will benefit Asturias and the rest of the shipyards, which are distributed mainly in the cantabrian cornice. [[Applauds]] And of course the part of the agri-food industry is going to bring opportunities to your land. What is important is for them to support the arrival of these European funds, for them to reach businesses, families, because, Mr Martínez Oblanca, what FORO Asturias is doing at the hands of the People's Party is boycotting the arrival of European funds. Tell your countrymen when you get back to Asturias! [[Applauds]] Because we clearly need to generate opportunities and European funds represent an opportunity. I hope, Your Honor, that when I return to your land, which I hope will be soon, I will accompany you to these forums that we are doing so that, indeed, the opportunities, the illusion and the desire to prosper in your land will also come from the hands of Foro Asturias. I do not think, Your Honor, that it should remain in the past, as the People's Party is doing, I believe that what Asturias wants is to talk about the future and talk about opportunities, and of course this minister and this government will have us as good interlocutors to make progress. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u189	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u190	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the reasons why the Government has no longer defined a fiscal consolidation plan for our country that provides credibility and certainty in the sustainability of our system in the face of an increase in our debt and structural deficit level, on the forthcoming withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus from the European Central Bank and on the foreseeable reactivation of the European Stability Pact next year. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u191	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u192	Thank you, President. Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, this isn't going with you, let's give it to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the Liberals fifteen days ago we expressed to Mrs Calviño the concern we had about the situation of macro data and the systematic reduction in GDP growth forecasts; unfortunately, the Vice-President's response was to re-evasiveness, propaganda and over-optimism. They will remember that we have warned of the expected withdrawal of monetary stimulus by the European Central Bank to fulfil its sole mandate of maintaining inflation around 2%, and I would like to insist that our country is one of the most vulnerable to the potential withdrawal of monetary stimulus from the European Central Bank. We see it these days, for example, in the risk premium, which is once again in everyone's mouth because it is already at 100 basis points, which means that we pay more interest for debt as a country, but which also has a direct impact on companies and families, who have seen their debt level rise during these crises. Euribor, the main credit and mortgage reference, is intrinsically linked to the rise in interest rates, which will mean an increase in private debt, thus becoming one of the undesirable effects of the second round. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this is concerned, the situation does not seem more flattering for the year 2023 in the face of the more than predictable reactivation of fiscal rules. Let us remember that the Stability Pact will be operational again next year, despite the work being done on its reform. And first of all, a country with public debt above 122% and a structural deficit that is up and down is a time bomb. We must be realistic, Spain starts from a situation of enormous disadvantage in order to align itself with the deficit and debt targets that can be imposed in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, a realistic reform plan is urgently needed, a system of ex ante and ex post public policy evaluation is urgently needed to make efficient use of public resources and a credible fiscal consolidation plan is urgently needed. All this will bring the desired certainty to our economy, because we have been lost for decades with the inaction of some people and socialists who when we need reforms, put patches; that when courage is required, they drag their feet, and that when they must opt for technocracy and meritocracy they have dedicated themselves to plugging their friends and sharing the state. Look, it's not that I'm very impertinent and I get up every day wanting to go up to the rostrum to say this, it's that today the International Monetary Fund, a few hours ago, has just published its report on the economic situation in Spain and, among other things, in addition to commending labour reform and criticizing Mr Escrivá's pension reform, demands a medium-term fiscal sustainability plan. But it is not only that the International Monetary Fund seems to hear what Citizens say, it is that the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability itself - which is not suspended - demands this for us. The Government has an obligation to submit a rebalancing plan when it incurs the structural deficit due to the exceptional circumstances referred to in Article 11.3 of the Plan, as it has been during this pandemic. The mandate is clear and does not allow interpretation. This rebalancing plan must be drawn up irrespective of whether the European escape clause is activated and must take - this plan - the path envisaged to return to budgetary stability in the public accounts. Even so, on countless occasions the Minister of Finance has expressed her intention to breach this legal imperative as long as the European tax rules are suspended, for she has said - I say quotes - 'Now is not the time'. You'll agree with me that this is not a great argument, right? Because when are we going to do it? Will this Government do so or will the next one, the one at the time and so the unpopular cost of the measures and the possible electoral bill will be paid by others? You continue to put the partisan interest before the general interest of Spanish society. Look, the AIReF reiterates that although debt and deficit are now on a declining path, the stability of our public accounts cannot be left to the fate of the cyclical component, requiring the adoption of structural measures. Therefore, it is a gross, great and serious error of this Government to leave the fiscal strategy and planning for later. Mrs Calviño said the other day in the inquiry that she had sent to Brussels that fiscal consolidation plan in April. Well, look, no, it's not like that. In the report itself on the update of the Stability Programme, which Mrs Calviño said she had sent to Brussels and which contained this stability plan, there is no credible and realistic medium-term fiscal strategy to ensure the sustainability of public accounts. And I don't say it, not citizens say it, it's been denounced by the AIReF. For this concern, because of the growing lewdness of the Government, we urge all of you to join this initiative in calling on the Executive to urgently define a rebalancing plan to which it is bound by legal imperative, by Article 22 of the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act, with a threefold objective: to grant certainty to our investors, to establish a path towards achieving budgetary stability and reducing the risks of our high indebtedness, and to prepare our country for the enormous economic challenges ahead. We want to leave our children a better country, with healthier accounts. If you do not fulfill the mandate, we will know that your irresponsibility wants to continue to burden yourself with more and more debt to pay for the party with your effort, your work and your savings. I wish I didn't. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz Vidal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u194	Thank you, President. Egun on. We understand that when recovery is strengthened and in the medium term a rebalancing plan, a fiscal consolidation process will be necessary to restore debt or the debt-to-GDP ratio through various measures that are not to entail cuts, but tax reform, rationalization of expenditure, etc. You propose today, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, a rebalancing plan, but you continue to say that recovery is not such, that it is not reinforced and that it is a rebound. And, truth, it is difficult, but impossible, to draw up a credible and efficient rebalancing plan in these conditions that you say of short-term growth. Because, if this is so, what would continue to be needed are expansive policies, in line with what Europe has marked so far. They speak in their proposal of a plan of rebalancing according to what marks the Law of Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability, a law that if it was already old before the crisis of the COVID, because it has not served to get out of the previous crisis more strengthened but quite the contrary - austerity policies that only they have achieved have been greater quotas of inequality and, of course, harm the welfare state -, now we could call that law obsolete and, of course, we do not believe it serves for the new path that begins after the pandemic. It does not seem to make sense, therefore, to follow the guidelines of a law that has not been effective or efficient in meeting the objectives of stability, deficit and expenditure rule, which are impossible for many administrations because it did not even take into account their starting position. And what about these repeatedly unfulfilled financial economic plans, because they could not comply with them, and with rules made up of variables that were difficult to measure and even with provisions that would have required complementary regulatory developments, such as, for example, for the use of surplus, which has given so many problems; a regulation of fiscal discipline that has certainly left much to be desired. It is true that indebtedness as a result of COVID has left debt levels too high, but it has also been welcomed by Europe for allowing the suspension of fiscal rules and by the action, indeed, of the European Central Bank, which has made it possible to finance large volumes of public debt at low costs, of course. And, indeed, this will require a fiscal consolidation plan, but not now, first, because the budget plan sent to Brussels already reflected the government's commitment to fiscal stability, deficit reduction and debt, and was endorsed by Europe, and, second, because for the development of a new consolidation or rebalancing plan, if it is to be consistent, effective and viable to strike a balance between debt sustainability and the ability to invest and grow, which is necessary and essential at this time, we would also need to know the debt reduction paths, the redesign of those fiscal rules that Europe is going to establish, as well as the definition and designation of those investments that may not be compute as a deficit, the fiscal reform that the government is going to propose and the possible reform of the autonomous financing system. As long as these factors or variables do not clear up, we will hardly be able to draw up a plan in the short term and also an efficient plan. We understand your concern. We agree that we need to work on this fiscal consolidation plan, but - as I said - once that recovery is reinforced and once we have clear new rules and definitions that Europe is going to adopt. Our vote will therefore be unfavorable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u196	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. I want to begin by expressing the personal dismay and dismay of the Galego Nationalist Block by sinking the Marin Fisherman, Villa de Pitanxo,... [[Continue your intervention in Galician.-Applause]] In relation to the Citizens' proposal, I will be very brief. It's not this, I don't think it's touching. It seems that his lordships of Citizens, in their desire to present themselves as liberals, miss the austerity, cuts and suffering associated with them. From our point of view, this is not what needs to be done at the moment, but precisely the opposite. So, let's vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u198	Thank you, President. According to Eurostat, Spain is the country where public debt grew the most between the fourth quarter of 2019 and the third quarter of 2021, and it increases the debt despite being among the countries that have given less economic aid and that have forgiven less taxes during this pandemic. The latest data published by the European Commission on GDP developments between 2019 and 2022 show how Spain is the last on the list, the last country on the list behind Italy. What are you going to do when the European Central Bank anticipates measures or stops buying public debt? Because in recent months the European Central Bank is the only one that has bought Spanish public debt, the only one. When you raise interest rates and it's up to you to cut public debt - and it's up to you to do so - are you going to pass the brown to the autonomous communities, as you have always done, or are you going to take some responsibility for the disastrous management that has been done and that is being made of public resources? Because in the last crisis the Spanish Government transferred to the autonomous communities and the municipalities all the cuts, all the details, and this will interest the supposed left, which has dedicated itself to selling smoke on the cuts. They forced the autonomic governments to cut back, but the central government continued to spend the same. The great capital, the great Madrid, the Spanish establishment, was not touched; Madrid, where, by the way, there are more than twice the number of officials corresponding to the population; they are 14% of the population and have 30% of the officials of the whole State. Fortunately, Catalonia grows above the European average, but when this government has to make cuts... as they have always done. [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] The Spanish state is a squandering machine, they are debt junkies. And no matter who rules, everyone does the same, the same evil. And I'm done. To the proponents of the motion that we are discussing, we sincerely say: we trust much more in the reforms that will be made at European Union level than in a hypothetical rebalancing plan that can be made in the Kingdom of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u199	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. [[Denial]] Mr. Guijarro García, are you going to intervene? [[Consent]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u200	Good afternoon. Obviously I'm not Mr. Delgado. Thank you, President. In response to the motion put to us today Citizens on the reasons why the Government has not yet defined a fiscal consolidation plan, there are some elements that I would like to bring to the table. This motion includes this request in the terms set out in Article 22 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Fiscal Sustainability, as you said, Mrs Muñoz, but it does so by giving an apocalyptic scenario, according to which the Central Bank suspends a stimulus programme implemented since the beginning of the crisis, while the fiscal stability programme re-activates as it was suspended in spirit and letter that already historic March 20, 2020. Well, these first two traps of the text already appear in the same title of the initiative and, if I tell you the truth, they make no good presage. And I say well, traps, because while it is true that in 2022 a gradual reduction in public debt bond purchases is expected by the governing bank, the European Central Bank, and even that some analysts speculate with a possible increase in rates in the second half of this year, all the measures taken have so far been absorptive, predictable and, therefore, no major oscillations are expected in the short and medium term, let alone a panic reaction in the markets. In fact, the Central Bank has been one of the most insistent when it comes to warning of the risk of abrupt or early withdrawal of the ongoing stimulus. Likewise, the assumption that in the year 2023 we will return inexorably to the same shirt of force of the fiscal rules from which we free ourselves at the beginning of the crisis is a scenario no longer undesirable, Mrs Muñoz, but rather impossible. Indeed, our Government, together with other partners, has raised the urgent need to renegotiate in a more realistic sense the terms of the tax rules for the coming years. The Bank of Spain itself, in a report published last August, warned of the sacrifice of maintaining the debt target of 60% of GDP in the euro area countries, believing that it would be necessary to maintain a tax surplus of 1.1% of GDP for twenty years in a row, I repeat, for twenty years in a row. The bank itself reminds us that the average primary deficit observed since 1995 has been 0.4 %. I'm just saying this so we can get an idea of everything that this means, of the brutal sacrifice that this would entail. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, I do not resist trying to engage in a serious fiscal debate with you, since at least and for this time you have not raised it in magical terms, that is, you have not taken advantage of that fairy tale that you have sometimes resorted to, according to which it is possible to lower taxes and increase public services, all this while reducing the deficit. On the other hand, I share with you some concerns that you express through a quote from an AIReF report that you yourself have repeated here today in the rostrum, according to which although debt and deficit are situated right now on a downward path, the stability of our public accounts cannot be left in the hands of the fate of the cyclical component, requiring the adoption of structural measures. From my parliamentary group, Your Honor, we can subscribe to each of the letters I have just quoted. Moreover, that is why we believe that the greatest challenge facing this Government and these General Courts this year, perhaps the greatest challenge in all that remains of the legislature, is precisely the negotiation, approval and implementation of an ambitious tax reform. And I stress the ambition because - we will agree, Mrs Muñoz - it is a question of achieving those structural changes that make sustainable in the long term a true welfare state, such as the one we aspire to build in Spain, no more or less. In this debate - we have heard this morning - we ask for a minimum of honesty, because, ladies and gentlemen of the right, it is structurally unsustainable to maintain in our country a fiscal pressure 7 points below the European average while funding our public services in the terms required by the enabling laws of these services themselves. Likewise, let us all have the courage to recognize that it will not be possible to face the so pressing debate on autonomous financing if we are not able before we guarantee the principle that everyone wins and nobody loses, that is, if we have not established before a new fiscal architecture that ends with decades of panic and dips and puts us at the end in the 21st century. This does not necessarily mean - contrary to what you have been insisting all these years - to raise taxes in a general way. It is enough to ensure compliance with the principles of equality and progressiveness set out in article 31 of our Constitution and which are often cited in this rostrum, something that clashes with bruces, by the way, with the fiscal policies that have been implemented in Andalusia, where - they say - you govern with your partner, the People's Party, because reducing the progressiveness in the IRPF and in the tax of successions and donations, as has been done in Andalusia, is not precisely the way to guarantee the sustainability of that social state that it commented on. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u202	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The 'citizen' parliamentary group brings us with it a motion for the Government to define as a matter of urgency a plan for the rebalancing of public accounts that will put an end to the structural deficit and thus achieve the objectives of budgetary stability. The truth is that we must praise the 'citizen' parliamentary group for the opportunity of the measure, but not for the indolence of this House, okay?, not for the indolence of this House, because it seems that this issue of budgetary balance only concerns those who are more focused on prose than on poetry. Among those who are very focused on prose, we have the Governor of the Banco de España, who, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, in all his appearances in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in the Committee on Budgets, has asked us for this pact or this intervention to lead us to a fiscal consolidation agreement. In the same sense, the AIReF has also urged us. Don't say it's not the time now. Isn't now the time? What the governor told us is that it is time to do so regardless of whether the effects can be deployed at a later time. Or are you going to make the plan when the house is falling on us? In any case, I have appointed the Banco de España and the AIReF, which are two independent bodies, whose independence this House should respect. I'll talk to you about the numbers. Look at you, let's take perspective. From December 2007 to September 2021 - almost fourteen years - the gross domestic product has grown only by 100 billion euros, alone. It's grown by 9.2%. Public debt has grown by 1 billion 47 billion, ten times more in absolute terms. But I will also say this in relative terms: GDP has grown in these fourteen years by 9%, public debt has grown by 272%. And this is only the Socialist Party's fault, because in those fourteen years we have the Rajoy sexenium included, which produced 40% of that 1 billion 47 billion public debt. You guys talk about the guys. You guys are so lost, the guys are already up. The rates, at the close of 2020, closed by -0.016%, if I take the 10-year bond as reference; closed by 2021 by 0.395 %; the last auction was closed by 0.753%; this morning it quoted 1.30% as 10 years. The whole curve was in 2020, up to ten years, in negative rates. We've been with positive guys since we were two years old. Okay? I mean, the low-end policy is over. But what will this generate? They still do not believe that interest expenditure growth has not been noticed. The growth in interest expenditure over these fourteen years has doubled, we have gone from paying 16 billion to paying 32 billion, and if the rates we have today remain fixed, in less than eight years we will pay 50 billion. Look, this waste of interest on account of debt policies has caused us to increase from 16 000 to 32 billion. Yesterday, The Economist said: Think what you want, in the short term you will climb something more than you are thinking and in the long, less. If this were to be maintained, we would be leaving at 50 billion in a very short time. Look, the defence of the welfare state and the defence of the state require balanced public accounts. The State, in order to fulfil its basic functions - security, defence, justice - requires balanced accounts. The welfare state, in order to deploy quality public services, requires balanced accounts. This lack of budgetary stability to what leads us or has already led us to the failure of the State to fulfil its basic functions and to a low quality of the public services it provides. We have told you many times: we have come to save the State and the State from the welfare of you, from your tax voraciousness and from your waste. I hope that Mr Edmundo Bal doesn't give him much of a shame that we're going to vote with Citizens, because really, since he's joined the exalted centrism, he needs a rebalancing or at least a parallel it's you. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u203	Thank you, Mr. Manso. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u204	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. At this point we are discussing budgetary rebalancing, but above all we are discussing the decisive failure, the stupendous economic failure of this government. Here you may come up to try to convince us otherwise, I have no doubt that you will try - and Mr de Podemos has just tried - but I would like to remind you of the situation so that the Spaniards are clear where we are exactly. Let's go with objective data. According to Eurostat, we will be the last European economy to recover the pre-pandemic levels of 2019; not the fifth, the tenth or the last, the last. Remember the source, Eurostat, not the People's Party. More objective data. They will adopt General State Budgets with a macro table containing forecasts against all national and international consensus. We said, "They're born dead. And, no, they didn't even get to be born. Of their 7% growth, which they refused to correct by the elections - in which, by the way, they have again been defeated - there is nothing left. Funcas says it will be 5.6; the AIReF, 5.9; the Banco de España, 5.4; the BBVA, 5.5; the OECD, 5.5; the IMF, 5.8 and the European Commission, finally 5.6%, an average deviation of 20%, I insist, of 20%. Can you stop treating the Spaniards like idiots, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE? I already know that this is arranged quickly by you with a survey of Tezanos, but you are lacking the respect and intelligence of the Spaniards. More objective data. They said in writing in the State General Budgets for 2021 that they will execute 24,198 million euros of European funds, of Next Funds. Does anyone here know any company that has received any euro of aid? Hard, huh? According to the CEOE, by the end of the year little more than EUR 104 million had been received by companies in this country, out of almost EUR 25 billion. Objective data; we no longer talk about their shameful, electoralistic and sectarian use. Today, the IMF is calling for transparent and efficient use. What else do you want? In the face of all these economic disasters in the Calviño shipwreck, today we are debating a motion that comes to the Government to say what all the agencies have been saying to it for months and that this group, the People's Group, has asked it up to four times, in four proposals debated in this House, four proposals from my group voted against by the Government, proposals that only called for the implementation of the Budget Stability Act, which requires a rebalancing plan after the suspension of the fiscal rules, something as simple as compliance with the law, which makes it so difficult, so impossible, so improbable to this one. The AIReF has asked him on many occasions, the last one, already rising the tone, a few days ago. He has been asked by the Banco de España and has just been asked by the European Commission, which has told them: by 2023 the suspension of the tax rules will end; we are going to plan a path of compliance. My group has asked this on four occasions in proposals in this House and on another ten in speeches by all my colleagues. We have asked them in all possible ways to return to economic and budgetary discipline, in which the orthodoxy of the rules we have given ourselves is not a wet or voluntary role for this Government. But no, now I will get out with that the exit from this crisis is being different from the other one in which we were sunk in 2018. I don't know if the exit will be any different. I know it will be for the rest of Europe, but seeing its discretion and sectarianism in the European funds, I don't know if they will have the impact that will make the exit really different, because if we don't depend on the low rates of the Central Bank, its sovereign debt purchase and the Next Funds, the exit would be the same that they took in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, that of socialist ruin and the country on the verge of intervention. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, they are still in time, return to budgetary orthodoxy, comply with Law 2/2012, bring the rebalancing plan, pay attention to national and international institutions and begin preparing the landing in the reactivation of fiscal rules. Leave their propaganda and lies, abandon the temptation of budgetary indiscipline, because we are partners of a club that forces us to do so, and comply with the Spaniards, putting forward measures to get out of this crisis stronger, as they said they would, and not sinking us all, as they are doing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Píriz. For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker should disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u206	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Muñoz, with sadness I say to you that you liberals are little; you are more liberal, which seems the same, but it is not the same. Liberals are the ones who write with petitions, and you make a written request in the morning, increasing spending to help all the collectives in this country, and you make a writing in the afternoon asking, as in this case, that we cut spending with a rebalancing plan. [[Mrs. Muñoz Vidal makes negative signs]] That is the problem that Citizens have, a small contradiction, and it is because they are competing with VOX and the PP to see who is most opposed to the government's economic policy. And that's his mistake, which then manifests autonomic choice after autonomic choice. [[Applauds]] Look, Your Honor, the government has a prudent budgetary policy that involves a sensible path of deficit reduction and fiscal consolidation of public accounts without duty cuts and no cuts in public services. The European Union is giving a different response to this crisis and the Government is giving a different response to this crisis than the People's Party gave to the 2012 crisis. Fiscal rules are suspended and the Government has no obligation to bring a rebalancing plan. They manipulate and misrepresent the reports of the Bank of Spain, the AIReF and the International Monetary Fund today, because they all say that we have to make a rebalancing plan, yes, but they forget to read what they say below: when we have consolidated the economic recovery prior to the pandemic. And as we are doing much more important than a rebalancing plan, I'm going to give you some data. First. Our countercyclical policies have managed to ensure that the Spanish productive sectors fight the pandemic well; they have obtained aid for companies: ICOs and ERTEs; we have obtained the recovery plan; we have managed to obtain aid for the autonomous communities so that in this crisis they do not have to cut the essential public services, and this has resulted in the maintenance of employment and that we are in historical employment figures, as demonstrated by the EPA of the fourth quarter of 2021. That's more important than making a rebalancing plan. That's a real rebalancing plan. Second of all. Government income guarantee policies for families and for all Spaniards, minimum living income, subsidy even for those who were not entitled during the pandemic, ERTE to avoid redundancies, benefits for the self-employed and increase of the interprofessional minimum wage, all of this has produced a network of protection and social cohesion, which is important, much more important than a plan of rebalancing, without asking the Spaniards for sacrifices, as did the People's Party at the exit of the crisis of 2012. Third dice. We are rebalancing the accounts with a sensible path, because tax collection is in historical record. I mean, without making cuts, we have a sensible path - do not get nervous, Your Honor - to reduce deficit and debt. [[Mrs. Muñoz Vidal makes negative gestures]] And, of course, listening here to the People's Party giving us debt lessons... Mr Píriz, we are paying the debt of the pandemic crisis and the seven-year government debt of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We're double paying the debt. Mr Píriz, in seven years you have carried the country's per capita debt from EUR 15 800 per capita to EUR 25 000. It was raised 55%. So, please, when you come up to this rostrum, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, say whatever you want, because you are in your right, but refrain from giving economic lessons to the coalition government of the PSOE and the United Podemos. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has made a different policy to get out of the crisis and will make a rebalancing plan when necessary, but I have to tell you that we have reduced the deficit by two years from 11 to 5 % in 2022; that we are going to reduce the debt to 112% of GDP in 2024, and we are going to do so without cutting the welfare state, because fiscal rules are suspended, but the government's commitment to fiscal stability and fiscal consolidation is not suspended. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT BY THE MINISTRY FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE TO COMPLETE DISPOSAL IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000122]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u208	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government through the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge to end depopulation in Spain. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Trias Gil has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u209	Thank you, President. Does Castilla wait, sleep, or dream? The poet wonders. Castile and Leon have awakened. Since last Sunday the Castilanoleonese are bearers of a new hope. Thanks to all those who voted for us, you are brave ones we are not going to disappoint. [[Applauds]] These days we talked with Mario, who gets up every morning at five o'clock to milk his goats and make an exquisite artisan cheese; with Libi, who tells that thirty years ago there were three teachers in his village, that now there is no school and that the two remaining children have to go to a village that is 20 kilometers away, taken by their parents, because there is no school transport either. We have also spoken to farmers, farmers, traders, workers from the few remaining factories, who remain as they can and who see how their descendants do not continue what they have built with so much effort for a lifetime. They, and so many others, are the ones who mark the change of course that we want to implement in politics, and that can be valued in the motion that we are presenting today. We are congratulated, because the ballot boxes have shown that, beyond political calculations, sterile chatter and media violence, a new course for Spain is possible. [[Applauds]] This crystallizes in the motion that we present today, a battery of measures that must be applied simultaneously with professionalism, decision and creativity. First, in order to succeed in the fight against depopulation and to meet the demographic emergency situation that we live in - we have half of the children we need for generational replacement - we must renounce the postulates of the 2030 Agenda, radically incompatible with the promotion of the family and the defence of the true interests of the Spaniards and their sovereignty, and that indoctrines our children by confronting men and women, parents against children, intoxicating and incapacitating for a healthy family life. [[Applauds]] This is evidenced by the fact that in all the documentation on the demographic challenge that the Government has produced, there are no words such as father, mother, family or birth anywhere. How then is a country repopulated? Will he be with parents, with mothers, with family, betting on birth and promoting the family, the great absentee of his expensive twenty-two ministries? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish women want to have children. The INE gives us a bloody figure: more than 70% of Spanish women want to have more than two children, and the national average is 1.2 children. Why does the Government not address this very serious issue, which affects something inherent in the status of women, which is the illusion of being a mother? It is that the People's Party and the PSOE, which have alternated in the government in recent decades, instead of addressing the problem of root depopulation, have managed to make rural abandonment in Spain more serious and destructive than in the countries of the environment. It is that not only have they abandoned the family and the birth policies, but to remain in power they have privileged some regions against others, encouraging the separatism and disintegration of our nation. [[Applauds]] They have failed to pursue the economic and social advancement of the regions most in need while in power. Demographic growth is economic growth, so we propose policies of direct and indirect support for motherhood and work reconciliation involving all administrations, progressive direct support by number of children, facilities for access to housing and basic supplies, and tax subsidies and deductions for those with children. In general, the aim is to create a strong system of support for the family which brings together institutional,tributory, social, labour, bioethics and social awareness measures, which places the family at the centre of public policy and also incorporates the family perspective in the drafting of laws and provisions. [[Applauds]] To help show the beauty of the family, to allow young people to understand that strong families make strong societies, that having children is wonderful, that they are a gift, that they are our greatest legacy and that, ultimately, there is nothing comparable to the bonds that are created in a family. At the same time, we are also proposing taxation in favour of anyone who wants to establish himself in rural areas with very concrete measures. It is also essential to promote administrative and bureaucratic simplification processes to facilitate the establishment of self-employed and enterprises. Do you think it is normal that not one or two, but a multitude of entrepreneurs in my province have had to put their head office in Madrid because in Ávila everything is slower, more difficult, more expensive and with a poorly focused hypercontrol that discourages the creation of new companies? [[Applauds]] And so on. For young people, it is necessary to promote the generation of academic, professional and vital opportunities in areas at risk of depopulation, as well as access to housing by providing the necessary services; to promote a strong industry and, in particular, to protect the vertebrating role of the agri-food industry in rural areas; and to strengthen the financing and provision of education facilities in rural areas in accordance with their special characteristics. We also propose an increase in the quality and quantity of public services provided in rural areas, particularly in the area of health and transport, in particular to meet the needs of our elderly, because many are dependent and need a dedication that they are not receiving; there are no pediatricians or radiation therapy units, and everything has always been promised. Finally, the current duplication, excesses and inefficiencies of administrations in the fight against depopulation must be avoided. For so many good Spaniards, which we cannot mention today, the VOX seeders will fight to return their lives to abandoned Spain with our presence, with our tireless management and thus end the punishment of banishment to which so many young people are condemned, because they have the right to a job, a home and to create a family in the land in which they were born and not be forced to give up their roots and their family.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u210	Mrs. Trias, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u211	I'm finishing up. Thank you. They have the right to accompany friends, to be with their parents and not to condemn our elders to an abandonment and loneliness capable of icing any heart. Ladies and gentlemen, there are signs of hope, dawn in Castile and León and soon the sun will shine throughout Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Trias. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also, in this turn, first and foremost, adopt a position by Mr Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are grateful that you bring this motion on the measures that the Government is going to take through the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge to put an end to the depopulation in Spain, to be debated today in this plenary. [[The Lord]] Let me jointly justify the fourteen amendments that we have tabled in order to improve this text on depopulation, and we would like to reiterate once again that, here in June 2020, the plenary session of Congress has already adopted by a large majority, and the abstention precisely from its group, a motion tabled by Teruel Existe calling on the Government to push forward a state pact against depopulation and, to that end, to propose a set of very detailed measures, with technical rigour and based on knowledge of the policies of success against depopulation that have already been developed in other countries. You have presented twenty-four sheets of explanatory statements in which you have compiled a synthesis from the scientific literature on the subject, quote prestigious authors to intersperse these rigorous sociological historical analyses with fragments of your party's argumentary. But, despite the quotations, his motion remains in still generic proposals, more focused on dismantling, for example, the state of autonomy of the 1978 Constitution, to which they are afraid to refer, or to the 2030 Agenda, than on following the intervention proposals that these same historians, economists and sociologists have drawn up. Our amendments to this motion again propose the need for a state pact to design policies against depopulation from the consensus of the groups and the imperative need to maintain them over time. In the face of generic statements, which remain in formulations for a top-down model and which little compromise the administrations, our amendments are a set of political actions framed in a bottom-up model, emerged from knowledge, theory and the reality of successful policies in other countries, and which also incorporate the imperative need for the subsequent evaluation of the 130 measures plan that the Government has launched with European funds. The closure of territorial gaps, the fight against depopulation and imbalances are very serious issues that affect millions of people and compromise the viability of many territories, requiring consensus, technical rigour, perseverance in time and a bottom-up policy model. In no case do we understand that depopulation should be used as a tool of confrontation, as a field in which to stage battles whose aim is to wear down the adversary and gain power instead of solving the real problems of people, the problems of our fellow citizens. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u214	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. This extraordinarily well thought out and very well worked parliamentary initiative can only be interpreted as a profound criticism of the work of the Government and, in particular, of the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, which, for its inability to tackle what is undoubtedly one of the biggest problems in Spain - and, in particular, in Asturias - deserves the greatest criticism. My community is a territory in which it has grown, in addition to depopulation, ageing and a serious fall of birth. The demographic involution has been studied for years at all levels, because it is not something that has happened, but has been gradually reflected by the National Institute of Statistics, with official, reliable, irrebatable and demolishing data. I would also like to highlight the work in the General Courts, particularly the one that carried out for two years in the Senate a special study commission, in which numerous and accredited specialists participated, or, to quote another relevant study, the one published by the Ombudsman in 2018. There are more studies and work in different formats, as I pointed out in the urgent inquiry into this same demographic matter, which I formulated to Vice President Ribera almost a year and a half ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the set of proposals put forward in this initiative advocated by Mrs Trias Gil is irrevocable and calls for the impetus on a priority issue in which the Pedro Sánchez Government is failing dramatically. We already have a vast amount of literary production that does not have adequate budget translation. It will not, moreover, be due to the lack of national officials, of whom, by the way, we have had four in five years. I repeat: four in five years. Nor will it be due to the lack of autonomous commissioners, secretariats, agendas, strategies and multi-colored multi-colored plans. However, Spain lacks political leadership in a crucial issue that is accentuated over time. It is not enough just to create a ministry. Finally, when we talk about rural depopulation - we suffer it especially in Asturias, my land - nothing sharpens it more than a government that despises agriculture, that promotes norms from comfort and ignorance in the official offices - see the wolf problem - that fiscally harasses the entire society, that deepens inequality and that, as a result, relegates the traditional model of family, to which it dwindles. Of course, direct support to the family is necessary, as is claimed in this initiative. I shall therefore vote in favour of this motion as a result of an inquiry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u216	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u217	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a motion following an inquiry by the VOX Group on an issue - rather than a challenge - which should be shared by all the political forces in this House, such as the fight against depopulation. We hope that every time the elections for Castile and León have passed, empty Spain will not be forgotten again and that until the next one, as the politics of the PP and the Socialist Party have been, will not be remembered again, as has happened for forty years. Depopulation, ladies and gentlemen, is a serious problem that requires a thorough analysis, followed by the application of serious, rigorous and continuous work. Unfortunately, we found none of that in the proposal that the gentlemen of VOX bring us. The depopulation of the rural world is a problem arising from the global trend of urbanization of the population, which leaves small municipalities to seek new opportunities in large cities. This is a phenomenon that affects Spain, as well as the rest of the continent. Although our country is the second largest national territory in the European Union, it has a population density below the Community average, with regions with rates comparable to those in Lapland. We cannot settle for the excuse that depopulation is a shared problem, Spain is the fourth country in the European Union with more municipalities at risk of depopulation. Moreover, according to data from the Banco de España, the rural provinces of our country suffer from a lower availability of local services than their European counterparts. To give an example, a Spaniard living in rural areas must travel 12 kilometres to a nearby local service, while a German or an Italian must only travel 4 or 5 kilometres. It is clear that the problem is not with the inhabitants of the rural environment, who seek better opportunities in large cities, but are forced to leave because of the lack of opportunities in that rural environment. The previous Government approved in March 2019 the general guidelines of the National Strategy against the Demographic Challenge, objectives that unfortunately have not been achieved or that have been surpassed by the pace of depopulation in Spain. They have been insufficient, we need to propose ambitious measures to tackle the bleeding of depopulation and we need to do so sooner than later. Faced with this overwhelming evidence of real data and faced with a theme of the entity of the depopulation challenge, VOX brings us a proposal on the line to which we are already accustomed, empty of content, but full of ideological slogans. It is not a receipt, gentlemen of VOX, that, in the face of a subject of enormous importance like this, you come here to paste your classic populist and nationalist message. Your fight against depopulation, Mr de VOX, is based on the following: to attack the 2030 Agenda and what you call global strategies; to abolish the Spanish autonomous state; and to set an example for Hungary and Poland in their political initiatives in support of families, policies, let us remember, which are based in areas free of LGBTI people, restriction of abortion and rejection of refugees, which have earned them the European Commission's dossier and the loss of Community funds. Is that what you want for Castile and Lion? Is that what you want for our empty Spain and our rural world? If these are your recipes to combat the demographic challenge, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it is difficult to see the benefit to Spain unpopulated among such occurrences. Go and explain to a farmer, or to someone who lives in a village of thirty inhabitants, that Soros and globalism do not know what film to be able to populate that territory. In Citizens we have always prioritized useful and well-founded work, and we have done so not with slogans, but with initiatives in this Congress. Citizens have submitted a non-specific law proposal, with specific measures and without ideological burden, just thinking of the citizens of emptied Spain. We have called for the resignation and reprobation of Minister Garzón, because he has put our meat sector at risk. From Citizens we present questions and a non-legislative proposal here in this House, in order to be able to make the electric contracting of the agricultural sector more flexible. From Citizens we present a programme of agricultural R & D, aid to sparsely populated provinces and a long number of initiatives with content. That's what emptied Spain needs, content. What you are proposing, gentlemen of VOX, in the end you use it for ideological purposes - as you are doing - to put your criticism of the 2030 Agenda and your defense of your family model reductionist, and there you will not find us. They look more like bipartisanism and Podemos than a party that says it works for all Spaniards. That is why I say to you that, after having tabled an amendment that greatly improved this initiative and did not accept it, Citizens, the Liberals will vote no to their motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u218	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, three years of Sánchez in the Moncloa, a year of Vice-President of the Demographic Challenge in the Government, two years of a seat occupied by one of Spain's empty platforms and never the depopulation had occupied so many minutes of parliamentary debate in this house until the contest of the electoral campaign of Castile and León broke out. In the debate on depopulation, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, look in the mirror because they are being treated as a Socialist Party. They have used depopulation with the same partisan and opportunistic interest with which the Socialist Party also did so, and the test is here, the proof is in this motion: twenty-nine pages of motion, in which twenty-seven are dedicated to criticizing the governments of the People's Party, and especially the People's Government of Castile and León, and yet the Petitum has occupied only two leaves. His motion, in addition to being vague, is rather imprecise and is only full of mere generalities. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you can see that you have been riding around Spain for two days. The People's Party has been walking around Spain and its villages for years, with more than 2500 mayors in municipalities with fewer than a thousand inhabitants looking for opportunities for their neighbours and providing services every day. Yeah, yeah. And you know what? That is why we have won the elections in Castile and León -31 seats the People's Party -, that is why it has won the elections, because it has the rural school open with the lowest ratio in Spain, because it is leader in providing dependency services for its elderly and because it has invested more than 100 million euros in employment for young people. [[applause]] If you advocate administrative simplification, why did you vote no to the decree of administrative simplification of a People's Party government, such as Juanma Moreno's, in Andalusia? They cannot say one thing here and vote another in the autonomous parliaments. [[Applauds]] Look, your postulates anchor Spain in an ancient Spain that is squandering its future, and that is not what the People's Party wants. You only want to address this from a birth policy issue and this is a very complex debate, especially because it is about breaking the gap between rural and urban Spain and talking about territorial cohesion. The PP wants to address this from a debate in a state pact, with a strategic vision of the country in the medium and long term, on the basis of a good diagnosis and with consensus. That is why we have amended this proposal, this motion, and this is what we have been calling for - and Mr Guitarte knows very well - since the start of the legislature. But, of course, ladies and gentlemen, you want to talk about sowing and you talk a lot about knowing the sowing; but one thing is to sow and another thing is to give wheat. And you know what it means to give wheat? Rule, and you cannot rule from your postulates. Look, they are anti-regionalists, and that is denying forty years of territorial cohesion in our history of autonomy; they are anti-globalists, and that is not knowing that the 2030 Agenda has inspired the European Green Pact and that the future of Spain, the future of Europe and the future of the world is green, and the People's Party is not going to allow rural Spain to stay out of what injects liquidity into our primary sector, which comes precisely from the European Green Agenda. [[Applauds]] They're anti-European. The PP welcomes, however, that Spain is within the euro, that we are the fourth largest power in Europe and, above all, that the greatest progress of our farmers has come from the common agricultural policy, which have negotiated the greatest economic amounts of this policy for our farmers the governments of the People's Party, especially that of Minister Tejerina in our last government. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, get off the horse; I recommend that you abandon the speech of emotion and let reason rule. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we also have for you, because neither the CIS de Tezanos nor the Council of Ministers of the Millionaires nor an agrarian LOSS nor a 130-measure plan have halted the collapse of its results in Castile and León, and have lost the elections. They have lost the elections because of the inaction of a third Vice-President of the Demographic Challenge in terms of depopulation. I used to brag here that it was delivered in body and soul. Mrs. Rivera is present in the depopulation! [[Rumors]] It leads nothing, neither rural mobility nor rural connectivity nor the agricultural PART. [[Applauds]] No, it prohibits the hunting of the wolf, it rises the light and the diesel and, moreover, it has closed Navacerrada, and it presents a plan of 130 measures that have discredited, precisely, the experts, by incoherent and victimistic. They say that Spain still lacks a strategy against depopulation, which has been demanding the People's Party for just over three years. And they say they don't know rural Spain. They have also noticed this in Castile and León and have there the result in the ballot box. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u220	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u221	Thank you, President. Today we are attending a new party debate, the result of what happened in the elections, to tackle the issue of depopulation, and the truth is that it seems super sad to me. I think that point is over and it shouldn't be. We are going to vote against your motion, because, in fact, there have already been several motions in this regard, both in plenary and in the committees where you abstained. They bring back things that, of course, have already been agreed, approved, and, from this point of view, it is clear that the majority believe that we are not going to share and that we understand that they do not bring much to the debate. Yes, there is a lot of leaf, but with nothing content; empty content and little was. We are talking again about the depopulation of many parts of the peninsula, but it is also a global phenomenon that public policies, in general, do not realize or have played, perhaps, a more secondary role and have not been able to tackle this phenomenon. We also agree that necessary measures must be taken to alleviate these effects, but not as you do here today, because reversing this task is not an easy task. That is why we understand that we must not fail to face this challenge, but we must do so from a calm debate with empirical evidence that conforms to reality. You, yes, give data, but then you intertwine them with your postulates, that what you do is misrepresent all the measures. We must look at the specific territory taking into account all its richness: the natural, the human, the social, that is, we must recover population and economy without losing of course its natural values, proposing solutions not from an urban and centralist vision, because each territory has its peculiarities and we must take them into account if what we really seek is an adequate solution. However, we believe that you are obviating all this and bringing us a totum revolutionum of generic measures that do not contribute anything, that violate the competences of the autonomous communities, parliaments and municipalities and that you also show your ignorance of the policies that are being carried out in this regard, that are the competence of these administrations; once again, as I said, with centralist positions, obviating multilevel governance and without taking into account that specificity of the territories. In addition, there is also another reality that has occurred in some places, namely the increase in the population of these areas also in the pandemic. We call for progress in territorial development by integrating the concept of rurality, yes, but in line with the territorial cohesion promoted by the European Union, and I really do not think that you are going in this line; your line is only because, as you have also shown today, of noise and demagoguery, which has more to do with partisan ends than with the general interest or with tackling this depopulation of truth and progress in the economic growth of these areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u222	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u223	Thank you very much, President. Gentlemen of VOX, you used the House to talk about your book, to hold a rally within the electoral campaign of the elections of Castile and León, and today has not been very different. You share in equal parts to the left and right, to the PSOE and to the PP, the guilt of this whole situation, being that you, as you have never ruled or done anything, do not have this historical problem either. They also use it to express their discomfort about the model of the Autonomous State, since, in your view, the various regional governments have not done anything about it either. In short, they use the House and this debate to make an election act that can be considered more or less licit. In fact, it has not been the first time nor will it be the last time they do this; what I can assure you is that this vital problem will not be resolved with punctual rallies. I say vital because the mayors and mayors of many municipalities, including my colleague Concep Cañadell, who cannot be here today precisely because she is taking care of her municipality, are perfectly aware of this situation of depopulation, this constant depopulation and the necessary collaboration of public administrations with resources, with adequate funding, with investments and with digital and terrestrial infrastructures. In reference to the allusion you make to the autonomic model, apart from some reflections that have already been made of the supposed economic waste and the insolidity of the State, let me remind you that solidarity does not win us anyone. The fiscal deficit in Catalonia is around EUR 16 billion a year, so do not tell us that the nationalist parties are insolidary and that we do not like the autonomous model, because we would certainly have a lot to tell them in this area. The truth is that we are fully aware that these rural areas are ageing, with older people, with problems of generational relief and with a marked imbalance between rural and urban areas. Mayors and mayors of Catalonia are organized in the Association of Micropopulations and the working group Eines pel Repopulation Rural to reverse this process, to ensure solutions within the framework of collaboration with the Government of the Generalitat, with the deputies, with the regional councils, and should also be so with the Ministry of Ecological Transition. We understand that it is essential at this point to approve the statute of the rural municipality, with the aim of guaranteeing all the policies that are developed in the different departments, in order to equip our rural areas with the same possibilities in education, health, social services, banking services and postal services that generate the same opportunities for these unpopulated areas. Therefore, I am not going to go any further; depopulation requires a rigorous debate, a necessary debate, but a debate that needs to be held, we understand, leaving aside its ideological approach and as a purely electoral act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u224	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u225	Thank you, President. Good noon, deputies and deputies. Every time a group presents an initiative, I think we should ask ourselves why, for whom, and above all in memory of those who present the groups the motions or the bills. In the case of today's motion, we are very clear: unfortunately, we see what we already knew, that there is a Spain where Franco died, but neither his essence nor his Spain died. And here it is, drawn and idealized in many citizens. And who could idealize this Spain? Your winners. Not those who went through hunger and misery; not the thousands and thousands of citizens who had to emigrate from the countryside to the cities to survive; not all those women who worked from sun to sun at the orders of lords to feed their sons and daughters. In the countries of consolidated democracies such as Catalonia, fascism is given a health cordon; in Spain it is discussed with them, they are given autonomous forums and governments so that one day they can reach the Spanish Government again. And it is that in the Spanish State there has not yet been any reparation, a law of historical memory that will end this memory, with the story imposed by the winners with all their impunity. Neither memory nor truth has been recovered; there has been neither reparation nor justice, and we are here for this memory and for this reparation. For the memory of those women who lived and survived a war and dictatorship, who are our mothers, our grandmothers and our great-grandmothers. [[Applauds]] Many of them were the first to start an exodus, to start a depopulation, to flee to other areas in order to feed and give a better future to their sons and daughters; they lived, but above all they survived in order to sow in us their republican seed. Before those who dream of one day having a breeding maid called 'Deantiago' or 'Deortega', against those who want the return of a Spain in black and white, we will defend a multicolored Catalan republic, because we know that it is the only solution, we know that we only have a future: a free Catalan republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u226	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today the far right brings us here an initiative to discuss proposals from the rural environment, because the far right is very concerned about the rural environment, and as it is very concerned about the rural environment, the first initiatives that have already asked, if they reach the Government of Castile and León, are to repeal the Law on Gender Violence and the Historical Memory Decree. That's what you guys care about in rural areas. Because, in addition, the problem is that the letter of this initiative disapproves of what you have been voting here over and over again, here and in other autonomous parliaments. You come here to stand up as defenders of the rural and family environment and you have done nothing but impoverish our peoples and families since you came to politics in 2018 in Andalusia. They haven't done anything. You believe that defending the rural environment is aiming at a riding gypsy and defending families, as if this were the same thing as belonging to Opus Dei, that's what you understand for the rural world. They bring a list of measures to reverse rural depopulation, support maternity, work reconciliation, support by number of children... For a little while they are already pointed even to the minimum wage, which a few days ago said Abascal was an insult that a worker will receive at least 1000 euros fourteen paid a year. And, look, someone who's been living for twenty-three years on public salaries for chiringuito, chiringuito, and more chiringuito, who's got crumbs. Look, gentlemen of the far right, you confuse the rural environment with spending a day in the countryside on a Sunday plan. And, of course, the countryside is work from sun to sun, that they also know very well in my land, in Andalusia, from sun to sun. And when you get into that role, when you go into the campaign and you put on that outfit, you look like you're out of a scene of the innocent saints, you're in the role of Mr. Ivan, who was a character of the innocent saints. That's rancio postureo, that's lie, that's electoralism. You have never done anything either for the countryside or for depopulation or nothing at all. But it is also that many of these measures that you bring here have already been adopted and you have voted against them. You voted a few days ago against an initiative on boosting the 5G technology community in areas affected by depopulation. Now they bring her here and a few days ago they voted against it. Of course, it's just that you guys have been voting against everything we bring here all this time. You have voted against the aid plan for La Palma; you have voted against revaluing pensions - there are also pensioners in rural Spain, in emptied Spain - you have voted against the anti-crisis plan of the Eurocamera; you have voted against the aid plan of 11 billion for businesses and self-employed people - that also in emptied Spain there are businesses and self-employed people - you have voted against the ERTE; again for the self-employed; you have endorsed the dismissal of the 8000 health workers in Andalusia. You know, Mrs. Trias, an empty Spanish office is very important. Well, you guys in Andalusia are firing the toilets. They have voted against cuts in the benefits of electricity; they have voted against - as I said before - the implementation of 5G in the unpopulated areas; they have voted against labour reform; the food chain; and micro-farms. You've voted against everything, and here you come now with a posture to say that you... get out of the way! We already know them well and you, in any case, may defend the landowners more, but the workers and the people who work from sun to sun you do not represent them. We'll tell him already. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u228	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Oria López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u229	Thank you, President. We are discussing this afternoon a motion following an inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures that the Government is going to take to put an end to the depopulation in Spain. The demographic challenge, one of the great problems of our country, an element of inequality, without the attention deserved for decades. But now, for the first time, territorial cohesion is addressed by a government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, which has put the problem of depopulation and the challenges in the face of the demographic challenge at the heart of the political agenda, assuming since 2018 the unfulfilled commitment of the government of Mariano Rajoy to launch a state policy in the face of the demographic challenge. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, Spain in the interior, the rural world needs neither populism nor opportunism; it needs us to remember them more, and not in the run-up to an electoral campaign. We cannot consent to places we don't care about, in the words of Rodriguez-Pose. They need work, commitment, action, resources, cooperation and institutional collaboration; they need to ensure the provision of basic services, and above all they need respect for people living in rural areas. And it is in this task that the government of Pedro Sánchez has been in since the first minute, and not in poses adorned with birds of prey, but by promoting the adoption of the general guidelines of the National Strategy for the Demographic Challenge; approving the 2030 Sustainable Development Strategy; putting on the table a plan of one hundred and thirty measures in the face of the demographic challenge that is entailing the mobilization of 10 billion euros, 10% of the Funds for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, which has already launched 8 billion with the budgets of 2021 and 2022, budgets that you voted against. Instruments and plans that do not adorn the shelves of an office after grandiose presentations. Your Honor Trias, plans and instruments dedicated to people, men and women who can decide the family model they want, because we respect yours, but there are more family models. [[Applauds]] The commitment of the Government of Spain is reflected in a multitude of initiatives: the approval of the PERTE for the agri-food sector, with more than EUR 1 billion, which is essential for the rural sector; the impetus for the connectivity and deployment of 5G networks and services; the basic budget for the settlement of businesses and the revitalization of rural areas; the diversification of economic activity in rural areas, highlighting the tourism sustainability programme for destination; the launch of new mentoring classrooms for municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants, which are mainly dedicated to the specialized training of young people; the territorial cooperation programme for the strengthening of the rural school; the forthcoming approval of the basic status of municipalities with smaller populations; the deconcentration of the new headquarters of State public sector entities; and a long and long term. Ladies and gentlemen, the rural world will be saved if we are able to retain young people and women in the territory. We have to stop the illustrated exodus, because when a woman leaves, she doesn't come back. And for that we must offer you opportunities for personal, family and professional development, ensure the provision of basic services and banish the idea that child and elder care is the unique and exclusive task of women. [[Applauds]] No, ladies and gentlemen, this is an obligation of society as a whole. No, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow women to be relegated solely and exclusively as elements of reproduction and birth, as in the model you defend. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you are asking in the future and this government is responding to you now. And, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, there is no fight against depopulation by removing the contribution of thousands of women, mainly from the rural world, to the Law of Dependence, what you did when you ruled, I remind you, as Secretary of State the president of the autonomous community Juan Manuel Moreno Bonilla. [[applause]] Nor do I keep governments like that of my autonomous community, Andalucia, which closes schools, which closes health centres, which closes vocational guidance centres in areas where they are most needed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am Andalusian, Granada, from a municipality of only 1100 inhabitants, of which I have had the honour of being mayor for four years, and I am very proud that the government of Pedro Sánchez, for the first time, resolutely and courageously, bets on the rural world, and I am also very proud of the politics and management that my party has carried out at the head of the Andalusian Council for the thirty-three years, because that is what has made my community not have the problems of depopulation that you have right now in Castile and León. [[Applauds]] We shall therefore vote against it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u230	Mrs Trias Gil, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u231	No, you will vote on your terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-16-CD220216.u232	All right, thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was two and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
