ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Pablo Casado Blanco, he asked Don Percival Manglano Albacar if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u2	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u3	Thank you very much. Don Percival Manglano Albacar has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u4	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to the inquiries, in the sense that the urgent inquiry of the VOX Parliamentary Group, which appears on the agenda as item 25, is debated before the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Zayas López and Mr García Adanero, which appears as item 24 of the agenda. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u5	We begin with the point concerning the consideration of proposals for a law of popular initiative and, in particular, the proposal for a law for the recognition of legal personality in the lagoon of the Sea Minor and its basin. It called for the use of the shift in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Soto Burillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u6	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me first of all to welcome the proposer of the ILP del Mar Menor, Professor Teresa Vicente; the government delegate in Murcia, Pepe Vélez; the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Regional Assembly of Murcia, Francisco Lucas, and the mayor of Los Alcázares, Mario Pérez Cervera, and a special greeting to all those who have travelled from the Region of Murcia to be here this afternoon, in the Congress of Deputies, on a very important day for the Region of Murcia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in August last year, in a symbolic embrace of the Sea Minor, thousands of people joined our hands and raised our voices calling for the recovery of the salt lagoon. Today, a few months later, we discussed in the Congress of Deputies the consideration of an ILP which aims to recognize the legal personality of the Mar Menor. It is an honour to be able to defend the turn in favour of this initiative, so, as you will be able to deduce, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in its firm commitment to the environment, to sustainability, to the Mar Menor and to the Region of Murcia, will vote in favour of this initiative. [[Applauds]] An initiative, ladies and gentlemen, which is supported by nearly 640,000 signatures, collected in pandemic times. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of these difficulties, allow me to acknowledge the efforts and the record of those who have made it possible for us today to discuss this initiative. It is a recognition to collectives, associations, and public institutions, to municipalities such as Lorca, Molina de Segura, Murcia and, in particular, to the Municipality of Los Alcázares, and also a very special recognition to each and every one of the people who are part of the ILP Platform for the Minor Sea. Our most sincere congratulations. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a new text; a text which describes the unfortunate state of the Sea Minor and the causes of its deterioration, which proposes a series of actions for its protection and recovery and which justifies why it is necessary to give rights to nature and, in particular, to the Sea Minor. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an unprecedented initiative in Spain and also in the European Union as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an initiative that proposes a change in the way we think, act and also face our relationship with the Sea Minor and its environment. I would say that we are faced with a peaceful coexistence of equals between human beings, their activities and nature, something like living together on an equal footing. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group we will be working on the parliamentary procedure to adopt a good text, to adopt a good law that gives the Mar Menor legal personality and that this law is the result of dialogue, consensus and social participation. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, seeing the state of the Mar Menor, we are certainly at a key moment, at a turning point in the life of the lagoon, one before and one after, which is manifested, on the one hand, in the reaction of citizens to this eco-cide and, on the other hand, in the intervention of the Spanish Government in the face of the inaction of the Government of the People's Party of the Murcia Region. Ladies and gentlemen, let me do a memory exercise, let us do a collective memory exercise. Look, in recent decades there have been certain circumstances, milestones, that have left a mark on the history of the Mar Menor. The first time an initiative to protect the salt lagoon was discussed was here, in this house, in the Congress of Deputies, in 1979, on the proposal of the Socialist Group, and it did not go forward by the votes against the right at the time. [[Applauds]] Another important milestone was the 1987 Autonomous Law on the Protection and Harmonization of the Uses of the Small Sea, appealed by the People's Party to the Constitutional Court, headed by Mr. Trillo, and repealed by the Regional Government of the People's Party, led by Mr. Valcárcel. We cannot fail to ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, what would have been the Mar Menor if this law of 1987 had remained in force and, if you have any doubt, ask then Councillor José Salvador Fuentes Zorita of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, then came the 'green soup' as a warning of the misfortunes that followed: the anoxias of 2019 and 2021 threw - look, ladies and gentlemen - almost 20 tons of dead algae and fish on the shores of the Sea Minor. Ladies and gentlemen, to all this, to all the historical story I have just described, it must be added that, in the face of the inaction of the autonomous government of the Murcia Region, the Spanish Government, for the first time in history, has had no choice but to intervene in the salty lagoon. Since it does not have exclusive powers, the Government of Spain has had to declare in general interest and public utility the launch of a framework of priority actions to recover the Mar Menor; a road map, ladies and gentlemen, with almost 500 million euros to be implemented at different stages until 2026. Ladies and gentlemen, many of these measures that are reflected in this framework of actions of the Spanish Government are precisely proposals of the ILP, thus giving impetus to an initiative, a social demand, at a key moment. We are talking about concrete actions, based on nature and directed at all sectors; measures, ladies and gentlemen, to act in origin, on the causes of the problem and based on four keys: first, listening to science; second, respecting and applying the law; third, cooperation between administrations; and fourth, above all, social participation. Evidence of this is the frequent visits to the Murcia Region of the Vice-President and Minister for the Transition, Teresa Ribera, who, together with the government delegate, Pepe Vélez, are in constant contact with associations, collectives, coastal municipalities and also with the regional government. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a clear manifestation of our strong and sensitive commitment to the Minor Sea, to the environment, to sustainability and, above all, to the Murcia Region. Allow me a thought. We do not stray, we do not fall into the traps of partisan tacticalism of those who, even having competences and responsibilities, put their interests before the interests of the Lesser Sea. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you have announced your vote against. With that announcement today the whole society of the Murcia Region and the whole Spanish society will be able to see that the real threat to the Sea Minor is you. [[Applauds]] It is the far right, it is VOX the real threat to the Sea Minor and to the Region of Murcia. And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the situation of the Mar Menor is the most visible example of the failure of its policies, of the failure of its Government, of the failure of its management model. After almost three decades of government of the People's Party in the Region of Murcia, the Mar Menor today is worse than ever and, unfortunately, its only alternative is to blame everything that happens to the President of the Government of Spain, Pedro Sánchez. That is the only alternative of the People's Party. You really don't get tired? Aren't they exhausted? [[Laughter]] Laugh, laugh, but for the socialists the Mar Menor is very important. [[Addressing Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Applauds]] It's so funny to you guys. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a great opportunity ahead of us, a great opportunity to save the Mar Menor, an opportunity for unity, dialogue and agreement by supporting this new initiative, by monitoring the action of the regional government, by encouraging the framework of actions of the Spanish government and, above all, by giving social participation. It is certainly an opportunity to move on, to stop being an example of what should not be done and become an example, to become reference in the protection of nature and in the recovery of the Lesser Sea. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond the baton, the responsibility we each assume at this time, the Socialists, the ILP Mar Menor platform and society as a whole, brings us the pain of seeing how the biggest salt lagoon in Europe has become the biggest environmental catastrophe in Spain, and, beyond that pain, unites us with the firm will to recover and protect a single system, such as the Mar Menor. Your struggle, the struggle of the Murcia Region, is the struggle of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Soto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mr Gesto de Miguel. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u8	Good afternoon. When we first saw this popular legislative initiative, I must admit that we read it with great interest for affecting a matter as high a priority for VOX as the Mar Menor. What seemed to be an innocent legislative initiative turned out to be an attack on the Constitution, the most elementary laws and human rights; a Bolshevik experiment to abolish, with the always excuse of the environment, the rule of law in one part of Spain, and we assume that to extend it to the rest, as I will explain below. It considered it relevant to include previous presentations in this plenary on the same subject. Throughout the Mediterranean there are only two geographical phenomena that, unlike lagoons, lakes or albuferas, receive virtually all of their sea water: one is the Chica Sea, next to Melilla, and the other is the Minor Sea, in Murcia. This uniqueness causes the Sea Minor to be subjected to two impacts. On the one hand, the human impact, which is the least of them, as I will explain later, and which is due to two main causes, tourism and agriculture, which are not, by far, the greatest threat to the Minor Sea. On the other hand, the impact of nature is a factor that is in danger, and it is one that can make the Minor Sea completely disappear, and it is due to the problem of the constant landing of the gorges, which communicate it with the Mediterranean, and the ramblas resulting from the rivers and torrential rains. I will try to explain all this problem that I have outlined and its solutions. The Mar Menor has an area of 13 500 hectares and 630 cubic hectares of salt water; an average depth of 4.4 metres, although the maximum is slightly more than 6. These 630 cubic hectometers have the following flow: on the one hand, there are losses of water that evaporate. Annually they are about 220 cubic hectometers, which, therefore, would be the amount that must enter to keep its volume stable and that does not overflow or dry. On the other hand, with regard to the contributions of water, they come from the Mediterranean, 190 cubic hectometers, through the gorges, which, thanks to the minister's incompetence and the abandonment of functions of the government of the Moroccan PP, are closing. [[Applauds]] Rivers and rains contribute 20 cubic hectometres that carry 10% of suspended solids, which cause a slow sedimentation that causes the coast to have stolen land from the sea, especially in the area of El Algar and Los Alcázares, and there are phenomena such as the Rame Tower, formerly a watchtower of pirate attacks, being already 2 kilometers inland; 2 cubic hectometres are brought by the black waters mainly overflowing with municipal scrubbers and 8 cubic hectometres by the infiltration of agricultural irrigation. What problems do these contributions present and how to deal with them? The contribution of 190 cubic metres of the Mediterranean does not present any problems, but it is essential for the Sea Minor not to dry out. The 20 cubic hectometers of the rivers and their suspended solids do pose a problem of long-term landing, which can be solved as was done in Cartagena with the Rambla del Hondon, which drowned the fishing port and diverted to the Mediterranean. The 2 cubic hectometres of black water from PP and PSOE municipal sanitation are the most serious problem. And we come to the 8 cubic hectometres of agricultural irrigation, which are irrelevant, and it is the excuse that this government was seeking and the consensus is progressing, one to comply with its dogmatic agenda and another to throw balloons out, to continue to chair and criminalize the farmers of Levante with useless and purposeless laws like the one they want to pass today. [[Applauds]] By the way, all groups of ecologists in the Murcia Region lied that farmers were guilty of the supposed degradation of the Lesser Sea because they poured 90 cubic hectometers at it. The face of reality was given by the ministry itself and Tragsa with a demolishing study that reduced the catastrophic expectations of these groups by leaving it alone on 8 cubic hectometres. Conclusion, from VOX we propose the following solutions cheap, fast, effective and definitive, irrefutable for VOX in any government or agreement. First, the opening of the throat and its maintenance at the levels of the fifties or sixties, considered the golden age of the Mar Menor. This government has closed it to create an alleged ecological hecatombe in an area where they do not govern and are guilty of the death of tons of fish, who died looking for oxygen in the throat of Marchamalo, which they had closed. [[Applauds]] Secondly, install mandatory rain-separative sanitation in all PP and PSOE municipalities in the area, which are the major culprits of what is spilled. Thirdly, the construction of a perimeter ditch around the Sea Minor, whose preliminary draft we have already brought here, which makes nitrate filter, brine, etc. Fourthly, draw up a zero-salm plan, allowing farmers to install ventilators to dispose of all these products. And fifthly, the diversion of the ramblas to the Mediterranean. So far the simple, quick and cheap solutions that VOX proposes in the face of its delirious totalitarian projects for this area of Spain, such as the one they bring here today, and which we will repeal in the next parliamentary term from the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] There are already many state, autonomous and even European administrations with competence over the Mar Menor and the adjacent territory of its basin, as well as public actions in the field of urban planning and the environment for the reporting and prosecution of possible crimes against ecological heritage, as well as the use of the Prosecutor's Office, the Seprona, etc., which make this initiative a toast to the sun. This ILP is more wasteful and more legislation, rather than managing well with existing instruments and without increasing public spending. There is no more pretension than to create a new anti-democratic and totalitarian chiringuito that operates outside the laws and the suffrage of the Spaniards, as I will explain below. [[Applauds]] The first time I was aware of this initiative was in Murcia, in the square of Santo Domingo, when a group of people collected signatures to save the Sea Minor. A crowd gathered around the table lent themselves in good faith, led by good intentions, to sign that request for help to save this unique enclave without further proof of what they were signing. I had the occurrence of asking and I was stunned when I was told what the signatures were for: to give legal personality to the Mar Menor. I thought it was such nonsense that I continued to walk, thinking that such a legal misconception would have no way, until today, that they bring here this nonsense dressed in popular initiative, supported by all the ruling extremism and the shameful submission of the People's Party to the suspension of the rule of law in this area of Spain, depending on it, among other rights, private property and free enterprise. [[Applauds]] As nothing that has happened lately in the Minor Sea is innocent, I saw that they repeated the typical left-wing move that we have seen so many times in this Parliament: to present extreme left-wing activists as independent technicians in the matter to be discussed. We saw it in the Commission of the COVID, when the independent expert was nothing less than Monica García, of More Madrid, and here they repeat played. They catch a specialist person also dressed as an independent expert together with other people, all known activists of Podemos, and try to bring back the deception that what is presented here is a peremptory necessity and a social demand endorsed by scientists when it is nothing more than an attempt to create a new chiringuito, dominated by the extreme left, to steal funds, to squander our pockets and take advantage of the good faith of citizens escaping any democratic control. [[Applauds]] I fully agree with you on one thing that you say in the explanatory statement: that all measures, all ideological laws, all attempts to perpetuate the problem in order to fill themselves with the subsidies proposed by the left, the anti-system ecologists and the progress consensus have served no purpose. And to avoid it, they bring us another chiringuito, like all those who have been creating for decades, so far in the form of expert groups, observatories and other words. As I said, moreover, it is a legal nonsense, but you, who teach VOX about democracy, do not care very much, because you skip the laws to the bullfighter, as in this case article 35 of the Civil Code and a comprehensive and profuse Spanish and European legislation that invalidates your proposal, without entering into all the terrible for the freedom it hides. In its proposal, they question the rule of law by saying that environmental law no longer serves to protect nature and that alternatives to the law, which is the foundation of the democratic state, must be sought. They give rights to the Mar Menor, which is similar to when Caligula wanted to appoint his horse, Incitatus, consul of Rome. [[Applauds]] I guess we'll soon see him listed for voting or signing contracts at the Mar Menor itself. They create chiringuitos where they have the decision-making majority about the environment people like you who don't answer to anyone about their management and stuff themselves with our money. The rights of fish, crustaceans, plants, organisms and the different elements that integrate and interact are fundamental to you, in equality or superiority, in relation to the exercise of fundamental human rights in the area. To be equal in rights to animals, to be devoid, as they have done in other legislative nonsense, of any vestige of humanity, of any value to the miracle of man's life, of everything that makes us exceptional and unrepeatable and underpins the freedom and democracy of each of us to be equal in rights and obligations to plants and pets. If we leave them, we will soon see a cat or a horse voted with the Mar Menor in that collective madness in which they find themselves. [[Applauds]] Laws in which it is cheaper to haul a machete to a human being than to cut off the ear for hygiene to a pet. You use the Sea Minor for your globalist plans and climate agendas, which prohibit transfers. That is why they want to ban agriculture in the Minor Sea, to close de facto the transfer of the Tagus because, simply, they no longer have any land to water. VOX will always denounce their manipulations and attacks on freedom. Only VOX can close your bars and quickly solve the problems of the Sea Minor that all of you have created on the basis of bad faith, incompetence or cowardice, and we will do so without the agency of placement of incompetents who slip our pockets because only VOX is left. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gesto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Soto Burillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u10	Mr Gestoso, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, they so much yearn for the Francoism that they come up here to propose Francoist solutions; they so much yearn for it that they want to continue to kill the Mar Menor, as the Francoism began to do. [[rumors.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, you deny everything and make negative gestures with your head; you deny everything, even the truth, as Joaquín Sabina's song says. They deny the state of the Mar Menor, deny the causes of ecocide over the Mar Menor and also deny science. You can't kick science together as you just did, Mr. Gestoso. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is logical that a toxic party like VOX is against eradicating the toxicity of the Mar Menor because you, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, do not care about agriculture, do not care about tourism, do not care about the environment and do not care about workers in the Murcia Region. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I used to tell you that you are the real... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u12	Democracy hurts them and it hurts them to take the floor, more reason to tell them what I'm going to tell them. [[applause]] I told you before that you were a real threat to the Lesser Sea, but I admit that I have been short; yes, I have been very short, you are a real threat to democracy. [[Applauds]] That's what you are. And, ladies and gentlemen, never will hatred, insult and lies be imposed on democratic coexistence in peace; never. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have already seen how your governing partners in the Murcia Region spend them. After nearly three decades of rule, have you wondered...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u14	... What else has to happen to the Lesser Sea for the Murcia Regional Government to do something for our land, do something for our economy, do something for our agriculture and, above all, do something for our environmental heritage? Have you ever been asked? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, move away from your governing partners, move away from the far right, move away from VOX, move away from being the problem and become part of the solution and recovery of the Lesser Sea. It's over, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u16	You can see the seriousness with which the far right is taken the Minor Sea, the environment and life; the lives of people and the coexistence and respect for democratic institutions. [[applause]] That's your rank, gentlemen of VOX. [[The applause continues]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists and the Government of Spain have a firm and sensitive commitment to the biggest salt lagoon in Europe, so, despite you, we will not stop until the Sea Minor regains its splendour against those who speak in black and white. Ladies and gentlemen, in times of pandemic, in times of war, one of the great lessons that is leaving us this difficult moment that we are living is that there will be no health, no welfare and no peace if we do not protect, if we do not take care of our nature and if we do not recover - let me - the Sea Minor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Soto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gesto de Miguel has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u18	Thank you very much. Franco finally showed up in the room, it was late! [[Applauds]] Franco I don't know if he is, but Bildu I see there, Republican Left there, Podemos there, Communist parties there, all the anti-system there, all the enemies of Spain there, those I do see. Franco I don't know where he is, but those are all sitting there, including the ETA, which I see in the background. [[Applauds]] First of all, since it has not given a single argument nor has it overturned one of the proposals beyond saying nonsense about science and so on, what brings VOX here are scientific studies, they are studies presented by engineers of Caminos, Canales and Ports, they are preliminary projects, they are serious things. Here I have seen nothing but generality, vagueness and genuine nonsense of cancelling the rule of law in these areas of Spain. I would also like to remind all the Spanish victims of the storms and, of course, my best wishes, of course, to those in the area of the Mar Menor and Cabo de Palos because these torrential rains have exceeded the scrubbers of their municipalities, which has caused a new discharge of black waters to the Mar Menor, after decades without doing anything, as we have proposed to them since VOX. [[Applauds]] I'm going to keep insisting. In addition to the ramblas, they have poured into the Sea Minor new tons of mud that fill the tail, competence of the PSOE government and Podemos, preventing water from entering the Mediterranean Sea for the regeneration of that unique environment that you want to collapse. It is their environmental hecatombe to criminalize agriculture the worst, the better, to see if they touch power where they do not take a vote. [[Applauds]] If we are already on the basis that man is equal in animal rights - because we must not forget what is being discussed here, what is this, that man is equal in animal rights and that ecosystems are even above the law, the rule of law and people, as you say - it will not be surprising that donkeys, deer or some wild boar end up being mayors, because if they are so equal they will also have the right to vote and to be elected, in their crazy logic. [[applause]] I've already announced, yes, that VOX is only going to take people on their lists. Put whatever you want in yours. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] It is also tremendous that two parties such as Citizens and the People's Party have shown their enthusiasm for this legislative aberration. I am going to be generous and I am going to think that, genuine in the face of the moral superiority of this left, that in which they believe, they have not even read it, because it is a bestial limitation of fundamental rights in the area, including private property, as acknowledged by the rapporteur, who intended, together with restrictions on more freedoms such as business, the creation of criminal types without reforming the Penal Code. I do not think that your voters like it very much to support the creation of a soviet in the Minor Sea, managed by an agency above the administrations and the state itself, and that of the thirteen members who make up it always have the decision-making majority characters like the extreme left and its head ecologists, who know nothing about the Minor Sea, except that we have to sovietize. [[Applauds]] That's why I say I haven't heard a single argument beyond what we're used to as fascists, etc., and bring back who we all know. If I have to say, in view of the fact that I have not been struck by anything I have said or denied that the totalitarian content of this ILP is the one I am denouncing here on behalf of my parliamentary group, which so far has been my intervention. We have made a rigorous presentation of the problem and of easy, cheap and common-sense solutions for the Lesser Sea. He has not been able to forward our proposals to us with arguments, except with his disqualifications. I am already telling you that we will repeal this nonsense when we govern the next legislature, along with all the laws criminalizing agriculture and all its chiringuitos that have been approved by the cowardice of the popular government of Murcia and suicidal dogmatism for Spain from all over the left. We'll restore sanity and hope because there's only VOX left. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Gestoso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u20	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to greet the members of the platform who are present today in this Chamber and to apologize for the unfortunate spectacle they have witnessed in this Chamber at times. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mar Menor dies, and it is a reality. Its risk of collapse is unquestionable evidence, as it is also due to the eutrophication process that suffers, that is, the excessive accumulation in this ecosystem of inorganic nutrients, mainly nitrates, that come from poor management of farms and livestock in its environment, from the transfer of those nutrients used in the fields adjacent to aquifers and ramblas, that end up reaching the Sea Minor. It is clear, therefore, that the Mar Menor has lost its conditions of environmental balance due to the lack of attention of the competent administrations - the local, the autonomous and the state - and this is so, despite the fact that the Mar Menor has several declared figures of environmental protection, among them, perhaps the most significant is that of being a Ramsar space since 1994, which catalogues it as a wetland of special characteristics, adhered to the international convention of the same name, Ramsar, and therefore should have been more and better protected. Look, I know the Mar Menor perfectly because I live only fifty kilometers from it, I have always known it, and I have known it for years as a unique environment because of its crystal clear waters and because of its specific and unique fauna and flora; because it is a place that, despite the pressure of urbanism, above all of the tourist and seasonal nature of its perimeter, maintained until about a decade ago a delicate balance, although certainly stable. But today that balance has been broken, almost all of the seaweed meadow of its underwater soil has been lost, as millions of living beings of a single habitat have been lost. We have lost practically the last colony of nacras that existed in the world and we have seen those terrible images of the so-called green soup, caused by the excessive proliferation of vegetation that has prevented the normal mechanics of regeneration of the Minor Sea, which until about 2016 was still possible. And all this has happened even though we knew what we were supposed to do, so I do not want to fail to recall the efforts and achievement of my fellow citizens in the Region of Murcia by sitting down the People's Party and the Socialist Party of that autonomous community at the same table to carry out Law 3/2020, of the Region of Murcia, of Recovery and Protection of the Minor Sea, a rule that the liberals bet precisely to avoid what happened already in 2016, to prevent it from happening again in 2019 and what happened in 2021, and which, unfortunately, is announced as possible that it can happen in the near future due to the new episode of intense rains and again dragging agricultural nutrients to the albufera. The common note of all this activity for preventing what we knew was going to happen sooner or later in the Sea Minor for legislating against that necessary protection or for failing to comply with the existing legislation adopted is always the same: autonomous governments of the People's Party. But it is true that the problem is also due to the desire of others, because we do not forget the unfortunate spectacle of the government of the Socialist Party and of Unity We can in Spain, more interested in fighting with the regional government on the competences of each administration when it comes to putting in place perfectly planned and accredited measures than in putting in place the necessary means and resources to make them come true. That is why it is you, PSOE and United We can, who rejected or vetoed our amendments in the 2022 budgets for the protection of the Minor Sea, and it is we, too, the liberals, who have put forward proposals, such as last August's non-legislative proposal, to call for measures to conserve and recover the lagoon, calling for the implementation of the current state instruments specifically designed for its protection, such as the Integrated Green Programme for the Recovery of the Minor Sea and the Climate Change Adaptation Plan in the watershed of the Minor Sea. Neither government, state or autonomous, has been able to live up to it, so we particularly appreciate the initiative that we are debating here today and, of course, we are going to support, a popular, citizen-driven legislative initiative, with the support of nearly 640,000 signatures collected in Murcia and throughout Spain. Congratulations to the platform, to its promoters and to all those who have supported this initiative because they have managed to bring to this Congress from society what the administrations have not known or wanted to do for years: to start effectively protecting the Mar Menor. Ladies and gentlemen, what this initiative seeks is not to leave the defence and protection of the Mar Menor alone in the hands of the administration, the governments, both autonomous and the state. What he wants to give to him as a legal personality is nothing other than to give us all citizens, in a direct and agile way, an instrument of autonomous and proper governance of that environment, as well as an action before the courts to activate their defence. It is, indeed, a proposal that makes the Sea Minor a subject of legal relations, but in the same way that the law already does with entities other than and managed by individuals, as is the case with a trading society, a foundation, an association and an NGO. It is a question of giving ourselves to all of us, since the Mar Menor is a good of public domain, a tool to better protect that common heritage. That is why I would like to address the only political force that is apparently going to oppose this initiative, your ladies and gentlemen from VOX. This initiative is not, as you maintain, a social-communist trap to implement the hegemony of globalist ecology; this is what we have read from you. Believe me, these slogans that you so often use to disqualify that which you do not share or which you do not understand only denote enormous immobility. Ask yourself at once the question: Why not?, which has been one of the greatest engines of the evolution of humanity, do not stay in the 'badest known valley than good to know', because there is much to discover. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you know perfectly well that the Minor Sea is dying, that its uniqueness lies precisely in the characteristics other than water, its fauna and its flora, other than the Mediterranean; that the deterioration it suffers requires intelligent measures that make agriculture, livestock and tourism live together in a sustainable way with the environment. If you really are for what you are all about, support this initiative and bring to it in its processing the solutions that you think are most convenient. They didn't do everything to stay where and how we are when all we know is that we've gone to worse because this hasn't worked. Stop betting that everything breaks down and start building. I conclude by congratulating once again the Platform that promotes the Legal Personality of the Sea Minor for its work. From the Citizens Parliamentary Group I assure you that we will continue the work you started on the street. We believe in your initiative and our goal from here and with you will be to improve it to become a reality because the Minor Sea deserves it, although it seems that from today we are all Bolsheviks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u21	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u22	Thank you, President. This popular legislative initiative has been supported by 640,000 people. Do you have the slightest idea, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, what it costs for 640,000 people to sign a popular legislative initiative in the middle of the pandemic? Do you have any idea? I will, of course, tell you something important: the minimum that this initiative and its promoters deserve is the respect of this House; the minimum. [[Applauds]] In any case, your proposals have already been evaluated and qualified by scientists as simple, expensive, ineffective and, above all, that they only seek to give priority to a minority, to the only one you defend, in the face of common sense and the collective. The only proposal that has any interest is to build separate sanitation, which in any case is a palliative measure. As I said, we thank on behalf of my group, Más País-Verds Equo, for the work of the group promoting this initiative. It is very difficult for such an initiative to reach Congress. The data show us their difficulty not only because of the number of signatures, but also because of an outdated, hostile process, with little ease, with bad deadlines, which shows that it is essential to update this tool of participation to the twenty-first century and to a supposedly advanced democracy. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Mar Menor dies. It is certainly a tragedy, but if we look closely, the process of degradation could have been avoided. Because the slow and agonistic death of the Sea Minor is not a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, it is not, it is the result of decades of over-exploitation of a single system and the failure of protection rules and successive regulations. First it was open-pit mining, which produced the filling of the lagoon by the sediment drag; then came the wild urban speculation, which filled the coast with buildings, even the widening and dredging of the canal to allow the passage of the boats from the Mediterranean to the marina. And to all these events we have to add the transformation of agriculture, which since the 1980s became intensive irrigation in practically the entire basin and which is responsible in large part for the large amount of nitrates that cause anoxia. It is therefore clear that the deterioration has not occurred unexpectedly or suddenly. Over the past decade, those to whom you defend, industry, urban promoters and agro-industry, have done and have done to their will what has seemed to them in the territory, destroying the environment and endangering their own livelihood. But what is really serious is that the one who had to have controlled all this disaster, which is the government of the Murcia Region, did not; instead, he continued to encourage the creation of new irrigation perimeters with thousands of illegal hectares. For its part, the Safe Hydrographic Confederation has also not been able to control water uses with illegal wells, which duplicate or triple the legal ones. The consequences of all this we've seen in the media, we've seen it on television, you just don't see it. Nothing more than you see the ecological disaster and the episodes that have occurred in the Sea Minor. The proposal that we are debating today arises as a citizen's response, absolutely legitimate, laudable and respectable, and it does not deserve - and I know that you certainly have better arguments and know how to defend your position, which I do not share, better - the seriousness with which you have argued today in this rostrum against the promoters of the initiative. The proposal comes out because of the gravity of the damage and the ineffectiveness of the legal rules that, after all, have allowed impunity. What arises - and how foolish, communist and Bolshevik it seems to this gentleman - is the recognition of nature as a subject of rights. This means, inter alia, the ability to claim rights in the courts and to hold those at risk accountable. It is an advanced approach. I understand that you do not understand this because it is an advanced approach to ensure protection, prevention, surveillance, restoration of the natural spaces, in this case the Minor Sea, which requires one more step so that impunity can never again destroy a space of the characteristics of the Minor Sea. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what happened to the Minor Sea is an ecocide. That is what has happened, and it has many responsibilities and many responsibilities, primarily the regional Government; not only, but fundamentally the regional Government. And in this context, the popular legislative initiative of the Mar Menor acquires great value, because, as Professor Teresa Vicente explains - what did you call it? The one who wants to set up a little chiringuite. That's what she called it. That is their respect for university, studies and science, that initiative comes to join the international social and legal movement in defense of nature's rights, which is already going to be one of the debates of the twenty-first century. Our group is going to vote in favour of taking this initiative into account and we also want not to lose a second or any action that is possible. The Mar Menor is in absolute emergency and action plans and investments must be guaranteed to enable the Mar Menor to be stabilized, assessed and restored. To do this, we must put into operation both the technical office that we proposed and was approved in budgets, and deploy urgently...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u23	Mrs. Sabanes, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u24	... the tools - term - and figures of protection, of follow-up posed by the ILP. I hope that this opening opportunity will mean a real commitment to save the Lesser Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos - Galicia in common, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u26	Thank you, President. Today is a historic day for the Region of Murcia and for its people, it is a momentous day for the Mar Menor, and it is thanks to the commitment of almost 640,000 people who have brought this ILP in volandas to the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much to all the people you have signed, but above all to the hundreds of people you have organized to channel this human tide, and especially to the commission that promotes this initiative and to Professor Teresa Vicente. Teresa Vicente is a full professor of Philosophy of Law at the University of Murcia, where she is also director of the Chair of Human Rights and Nature. Twenty days ago, on March 15, he brilliantly defended the legal personality of the Mar Menor in the Ecological Transition Commission, which he had the support of all groups, except VOX. His work is already history of the Murcia Region, but, like all pioneering women, he has had and has to face reactionary attitudes. Proof of this was the intervention of the deputy of VOX Luis Gestoso, who dedicated to him in the same Commission some epithets. Gesto called Professor Teresa Vicente anti-system and left-wing activist, and accused her of promoting totalitarian chiringuitos. He talked about the Bolshevik experiment today. The words of this Member are very reminiscent of the accusations of the Secretary of State for Agriculture of President Eisenhower against the teacher and also activist Rachel Carson in the middle of the hunt for Macartist witches. Then he said: He is not married, although he is physically attractive; he is probably a communist. Today we know, thanks to Carson's work and his famous book Silent Spring, that pesticides like DDT not only have a tremendous impact on birds, but also have important consequences on human health. Its use today is banned worldwide and Rachel Carson is considered one of the most influential women of the 20th century. [[Applauds]] Of those attacks, 60 years have passed, but some minds seem frozen in the last century. Let no one escape: today VOX would defend the manufacturers of DDT pesticides, I would say they are unjustly criminalized; as they defend the agribusiness multinationals accused in the Topillo case for having poured hundreds of thousands of cubic meters of contaminated brine into the Sea. [[Applauds]] Yours, Mr.Gestoso, is not ignorance, but also yours is called complicity. You, Mr Gestoso, are simply and plainly the steward of the landowners of the Cartagena Field who have loaded the Minor Sea. [[Applauds]] On the subject, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative initiative aims to give for the first time in our history rights to nature, recognizing to the Sea Minor its legal personality. In this way, any person may demand in the courts compensation for damage caused in the salt lagoon and that those responsible be punished, as appropriate. Why is this ILP - some of you will wonder - if there are already laws that protect the Minor Sea? The answer is simple: because after twenty-five years of ruling the People's Party in the Murcia Region, it has become a failed community, where the rule of law has moved to a better life. In the Sea Minor, as is known, many different types of threats converge. First, the nitrates and phosphates that agribusiness has been throwing into the lagoon for years without any control, while the regional government is looking elsewhere. Secondly, wild urbanism, which today continues to encourage municipalities of different political signs. And, thirdly, the recurrent floods that still tear down in this region because of the null will to impose a minimal ordination on the territory. Only fifteen days ago, the councillor of Fomento morciano required the ministry to remove maps of flood zones for the region. Since I don't like them, I throw them away. This is the level to which the People's Party in the region has accustomed us. Certainly, an autonomous Government that will ensure the common interest and natural heritage for a long time would have taken steps to protect the Minor Sea from these threats, but that is a lot to ask of a regional government sustained by transfugas and abducted for a long time by the interests of a minority. Do you know what the regional government has done in recent months? Covering the black mud from its conarian shores to prevent it from being seen by members of the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament who visited it. It was denounced by the Commission President herself, Tatjana Zdanoka, during her visit. So things go, the Sea Minor is on its way to a third ecocide. This year, all the water quality parameters are worse than last year's ones and, consequently - and if no one repairs it - this summer we will see tens of thousands of dead fish again as we saw last summer. Therefore, and going back to the question why has Murcian society been organized and, through this ILP, they ask us for new legal instruments to protect the Minor Sea? Simply because the autonomous government does not have the will to do so. We are talking about that in recent months, 38 companies and three high-ranking charges have been charged in the Topillo case, the most important judicial case opened by the pollution of the Sea Minor. Since 2020, the government of López Miras has refused to hold these companies accountable for the discharges, despite the requirements of the Prosecutor's Office. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 8460 hectares of illegal irrigation and since the ecocidal year 2019 only 202 hectares have been closed, only 2%. [[Applauds]] Therefore, in view of the regional government's devolution of functions, new tools are needed to protect the salt lagoon, such as the legal personality of the Mar Menor or the regional park. In short, citizens are demanding a new time and new legislation to do what has not been done so far, to recover the Sea Minor and to stop the attacks on it. Ladies and gentlemen, today the 640,000 people who have supported this legislative initiative with their signature are with us in this rostrum. Among those signatures are those of thousands of neighbors of the Sea Minor and those of summerers, but also that of hundreds of hoteliers and merchants who see how their businesses go to ruin. There are also many small and medium-sized farmers' firms, of which they do things well, of which they have been seeing for too long how agribusiness multinationals steal their water for their illegal irrigation and expel small farmers from the market, imposing their model of low prices and precarious labour. We are united in this and, no matter how hard they try, they will not be able to confront neighbours and farmers, because behind this ILP there is an entire region that has risen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is over. Through this ILP, it is the people of the Region of Murcia who send their cry of help. When the Government of a community becomes the enemy of its own natural and cultural heritage, only citizenship can restore the common good. Listen to the people of the Murcia Region and support this popular initiative. For a living Mar Minor, we will vote yes to this ILP. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Pedreño Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u28	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Today we continue with the parliamentary procedure of taking into account this proposal for a law that starts with the popular initiative and that, as I have already expressed in the Commission in which the group promoting this ILP appeared, the People's Party wants to convey to you our support and that of the government of the Murcia Region itself. This is aimed at both promoters and the rest of the parliamentary groups as a commitment that any useful tool to help the recovery of the Mar Menor should be supported by consensus, and we will ask all groups to do so. I would like to congratulate the work and effort of the promoter group. Of course, everything is in order to help the Sea Minor. However - today we have been seeing it and the other day we were also able to see it in the Commission - we are very much afraid that we will see that some political groups will use this legislative process initiated in the General Courts as a political instrument at the service of their ideologies, probably without taking too much care of the Mar Menor and to try to profit their party. Actually, we just checked it out. We have seen it today in the debate. The Socialist Group has done it, VOX has done it, we have done it together. By the way, the Socialist Group, Mr Soto, has come to present this bill and has not said a word about it. Whoever has been really listening to this debate, I do not know if it will be clear exactly what we are going to vote on today. He also dares to talk about skills. I think it's a dare when you have the government's powers over the Minor Sea and many of them unexecuted. [[Applauds]] So, please, let's have a look at this and don't abandon the Sea Minor. Because this has been happening since the first real episode of deterioration of the Sea Minor in summer 2016. However, this proposal for a law should be made available to the legal framework as soon as possible, like anything that helps the Mar Menor, whether in the legal or environmental sphere. Since the initial support - already expressed by the president of the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia, Mr López Miras, during the processing of this popular legislative initiative - the People's Party will not use - that they will check - the Sea Minor as a vehicle to wear down other groups, because what we want and ask is a unanimous consensus for the recovery of the lagoon, because this is a problem of all, because this is a global problem. And that, unfortunately, because of what we saw today and because of what we saw the other day, is on the way that it does not happen. The other day we had the opportunity to do so in the Committee on the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, which was last March. The consequence could be an unjustified delay in this process, which in itself implies an unprecedented legislative challenge in Spain and Europe. Because it's - I'm going to talk a little bit about what this is about - giving legal personality to something that is neither a natural person nor a company, it's a natural ecosystem. Of course, a whole challenge that we have an obligation to face with seriousness but, above all, with rigour, because of the exceptional nature of this initiative. I will remind you that, during this parliamentary term, the People's Parliamentary Group has already presented several initiatives as a result of the different natural episodes that have occurred in the Minor Sea, especially since the first anoxia in September 2019. Therefore, in December 2019 there is a non-law proposal on urgent and priority actions to avoid flooding in the municipalities of the Mar Menor environment and to avoid negative impacts on the lagoon. In July 2020, in the autonomous sphere, the Murcia Region passed the Law on Recovery and Protection of the Small Sea. In August 2021 we also recorded a non-law proposal on urgent and priority actions for the recovery of the Mar Menor and, in September 2021, the last, a non-law proposal on the urgent recovery of the fall of the Gola de Marchamalo, located in La Manga del Mar Menor. This legislative challenge involves two important things. One, to process a popular legislative initiative. This is something that protects our Constitution but, of course, it is not common. The second is to grant legal personality of its own to a natural space. This is not that it is not common, it has never happened either in Europe or, of course, in Spain. We have the challenge of making a regulatory fit with article 38 of the Civil Code, which speaks precisely of legal persons and what they can do. In the case of the Mar Menor, we are obliged to seek a rapid solution which will allow this legislative text to be given the necessary validity and soundness. As to how this text has arrived here, obviously, with the legal form granted by article 87 of our Constitution, this ILP starts from a process of collecting signatures, which we all could see in the summer, because it was on almost every beach in the environment of the Sea Minor. And although it was not really a question of signing a document to recover the Minor Sea, but of giving it exceptional legal guarantees, we understand that and, of course, we will always be supporting and supporting the popular will, because it is as valid a tool as I have already commented and has already registered our parliamentary group. I remind you that we are faced with an unprecedented process in Spain, and here, of course, neither neglect nor personal interests are worth it. In the previous appearance in the Commission, the promoters spoke of some such precedent in countries such as India, Uganda, Bolivia, Ecuador, but none in Europe, so we will have to make an adaptation to our own national regulatory framework without, as is usually the case, comparative legislation between countries in our own European environment. As far as the People's Parliamentary Group is concerned, we will apply coherence so that we can give this procedure the most agility and give the maximum legal form and usefulness to this proposal of law, as the President of the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia once again reiterated after the appearance of Mrs Teresa Vicente just three weeks ago. From the People's Parliamentary Group we will support and vote in favour of this bill, as we have already been demonstrating since the first day. I'm done, Madam President. It is now up to us to coordinate and cooperate so that all those who have been raised in the Mar Menor, those who have a home in the Mar Menor, those who have companies in the Mar Menor, all those who come to enjoy the Mar Menor from different points of Spain and also from other countries, feel proud of our work in this House and, of course, of our will for consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedreño. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u30	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the abolition of inheritance and donation tax. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mary is thirty-eight years old and two sons: Elizabeth, three years old, and Pelayo, seven years old. Mary was orphaned when she was eleven years old and lived with her aunt Pepa, her mother's sister, until a few years ago she emancipated. [[The lady]] Last January her aunt Pepa died for COVID, leaving Maria as the sole heir, to whom she left the modest house of her village where they lived together until Maria moved to Madrid to look for a better future. But Maria, today, works as an employee in a restaurant, charges 1000 euros a month and in the management where the tax matters take her they have told her that if she accepts her aunt's inheritance she will have to pay 47,000 euros as inheritance tax. A house that will inherit, that cannot sell until it accepts the inheritance, nor can it ask for a loan offering such a house in guarantee to face the payment of inheritance tax. If you could sell this house - which you can't - the town's real estate company has told you that they won't pay you more than 120,000 euros for it, although Hacienda assures you and tells you that for the purposes of inheritance tax it has a value of 200,000 euros, for those coefficients that they invent in the ministries and that have nothing to do with the reality of the real estate market. [[Applauds]] Mary is faced with the disjunctive of renouncing the inheritance of the one who raised her and continuing with her 1000 euros a month, raising two children, or accepting the inheritance and paying 47,000 euros she does not have. If you ask for a loan, it has to be a personal loan to pay the tax and be able to keep your aunt Pepa's house; and it has to be a personal loan up to seven years and it will cost you more than 500 euros a month, that is, half your salary. Not to mention that you will have to pay, logically, the IBI, as well as install an alarm so that you won't overwhelm it. [[Applauds]] You, progress, what would you do if you were Mary? Going to the board of directors of an electric, right? Yeah, good. Paquita, Maria's neighbor, has been hit by the lottery this Christmas; she was hit by half a tenth of a player, a prize of 200 000 euros - a prize in cash - for which she has to pay 32,000 euros in taxes. Paquita, therefore, pays less for a lottery prize - having cash - than Mary for inheriting her aunt's house, than in the best case, if she could sell it, would receive 120 000 euros although Hacienda assures her that it is worth 200 000. Perhaps that modest house would serve as savings so that Mary's children could have a future, study a career, get better training, improve their lives. Because tuition at the university for the Spanish is not free; because the travel grants, which are 2000 euros a year, do not give for a student to live not three or four months if he is away from home. And these are the Spaniards, lords of the progressive left, feminist,?ista',?ista', whom you want to fry at taxes in order to avoid the accumulation of wealth; and they say so, without squandering. [[Applauds]] The rich to whom you allude continually could be the politicians who go to the governing councils of public societies or to the so-called "oligopolies", who without having given nor plate and only for having the card of the political party of the moment, charge hundreds of thousands of euros. [[laughs]] The 'John Palomo, I eat it, I eat it'. The rich like, for example, the ministers, ministers and'ministers', who constitute societies in tax havens, planning their assets so as not to pay taxes and that their children or grandchildren inherit the fruit of the effort of the Spaniards who have worked to keep them comfortably in their armchairs and in their official cars. [[Applauds]] Do we have to pay taxes? Yes, of course you have to pay taxes, of course, but they always pay the same, the most defenceless, the middle classes that you condemn to ostracism and disappearance and the working classes, that with this tax system that eschews you for breathing you will never be able to save a euro. And this is the sad, raw reality. Do you really believe that the millionaires to whom you plead tax a lot of money on inheritance and donations? Either you are ignorant and live in a parallel world or directly lie. I've been a tax advisor for almost thirty years, and I know that reality. Their speeches are demagogic and claim rights for the most vulnerable while embracing them with new taxes, without eliminating the previous ones and without offering opportunities for people to prosper [[applause]] The fiscal persecution in Spain is like this: for the salary you earn, you pay IRPF; if you buy a house, tax on transmissions; if we spend and consume, VAT; if you sell the house, surplus value and IRPF, and if you die, successions. And although quality education is the best heritage and the social lift by antonomasia, you now, with this educational system that you have just implemented, deficient and generally approved, also intend to deprive the most humble Spaniards of a future of hope. [[Applauds]] In Spain we live an unbearable fiscal hell, whose collection is not intended for the welfare of the Spaniards, but it feeds every day an ideological and globalist agenda that pushes us to economic and intellectual poverty; it leads us to despair; it attacks private property and aims to decimate the capacity of citizens to react, indoctrinate and lie. And for that you already have your media subsidized and busy, who do not pay taxes for the subsidies they receive and who are directly engaged in distorting and manipulating the information to the government's dictate. [[Applauds]] In Spain we have the National Federation against Succession Tax, a social and apolitical movement, which I imagine you, if tomorrow these gentlemen go out to protest, will insult them, as you did with farmers and truckers, those ultra-right activists, right? A federation that brings together the main associations and platforms that have been fighting against the injustice of this cruel tribute for years and that have collected against them more than a million signatures of citizens who do not belong to the elites, who are neither rich nor powerful; on the contrary, they are humble workers and people who are expoliated and who in many cases live real dramas. We are facing a tax that violates constitutional rights under articles 14 and 33 and does not fulfil the redistributive function of article 31 of the Spanish Constitution. From this tribute we must highlight its scant impact on public resources, with a collection of around 27 billion euros. And listen, said a minister: Chiqui, if a billion are nothing! [[Laughter]] If 1 billion is nothing, twice as much as 1 billion is nothing; twice as much as nothing is nothing. Don't you? By the way, it must be that the minister has a lot of work, because the latest collection figures she offers from this tax are 2019. I imagine it will be because of the pandemic or the Putin war. The VOX Parliamentary Group, in May 2020, presented a bill to eliminate this tax, an initiative that was vetoed by the government, without an option to debate, in this House. Once again, the Government turned its back on its people, ignoring their demands, but, as perseverance is our guide, here we are debating today. At a time of crisis, when European governments reduce taxes, the Spanish Government does not choose to increase the tax burden on the average citizen and, if it reduces something, as it has done with the price of fuels, does it at the expense of whom? Of the big millionaire oil tankers? No, it does so at the expense of the gas station's pocket, which, with its effort and scarce resources, has to be financed. [[Applauds]] Who do you owe you? You see the plumber, socialists and'socialists', but well, let's see if it governs We can at once and already the situation improves. [[Laughter]] This text of the bill highlights powerful reasons that justify the arrogation of this tribute. This is one of the measures we consider in the Agenda Spain, page 22, in case any minister wants to consult it, and it is point 46 of the 100 measures of VOX. This Agenda Spain, which VOX defends for all of Spain, without filters or discrimination, is to place all Spaniards on an equal footing. But, as we already know, the parliamentary groups that cling to the survival of this tribute, precisely those of the rotating doors and boards of directors of the 'oligopolies', ignoring the voice of the people, will come up here to tell lies, will deal, as if this tax is present throughout Europe. Lie. It does not exist in more than half of the countries of the European Union. Which is just, progressive and redistributes wealth. False. It is a tribute given to the autonomous communities and, although any of them could eliminate it, none does, all maintain it. At best, some improves it, such as the Community of Madrid, which is the second in collection. These differences deepen the deep inequality between the Spaniards, becoming confiscatory and, precisely, a scourge for the working classes, not taking into account the real economic capacity of the heir. They will say that it is taxed on the real value of inherited real estate. Lie. The value attributed to the assets subject to taxation is determined by the Administration, apart from the reality of the real estate market, by a method that leads to an overvaluation of the assets and, if you do not agree, resort to the courts, but first pass by cash and I paid, because, if not, he seized his assets. [[Applauds]] It's funny because, if you offer the Treasury a security right to pay a debt because you have a debt, I charge you 100, but if you then have to charge you because we inherit the same good, I charge you 200. Same administration, even good, different standards; embarrassing! [[Applauds]] In short, this is a tax that generates inequality, does not comply with the principle of progressiveity, does not contribute to the redistribution of wealth, discourages the saving of families, represents a minimum contribution to public resources, gives up inheritance and, finally, is questioned by the European institutions. Moreover, it is a very old tax, socialist gentlemen, its origin dates from the dates prior to 1812, those remote times that you have removed from history books, but which now rescue it if it is to collect taxes, right? [[Applauds]] All right. Are you progressives of mouth and of package and is it that, in the middle of the 21st century, when this tax faces numerous problems of social legitimacy, being the most controversial tax figure of our tax system, do you not embarrass the Spaniards while maintaining a government with 22 ministries, other 17 kingdoms of taifas, with 21.3 billion for policies of more inequality, with a political spending shot that keeps at the expense of suffocating the citizen? They're not ashamed because they shouldn't have it, but I'm telling you there's little left for them to keep docking the Spaniards, because VOX is already stepping on their heels. [[shows a graph]] [[Laughs.-Applause.]] We are the only hope, the only alternative for a future of prosperity for all of Spain. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u32	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u33	Madam President, let me take a brief note to highlight the shocking testimony we have received this afternoon with the historic appearance of President Volodimir Zelenski, denouncing the atrocities of the invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on taking account of this proposal for a law allows us to speak again of one of our classic parliamentarians, the inheritance tax, another mechanism resulting from the insatiable voraciousness of collection, which in the specific case of Asturias is the most confiscatory of all Spain and keeps us in the black hole of taxation, far behind the Valencian Community and Aragon. In any case, I would like to stress that when we talk about inheritance tax, we have to do so in terms of inequality, because the serious thing about the matter is that, in fiscal matters, the Spaniards are not treated with fair criteria, that is, that there are citizens of the first and second categories, although some, increasingly suffocated, increasingly impoverished. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still some in the Principality who are surprised by the decline, the decline and the impact of political management that discourages investment and pushes the fiscal exodus, starting with the productive fabric. However, the recent report drawn up by the Registry of Tax Economists on the panorama of autonomous or foral taxation in 2021, again highlights the tax island in which Asturias has been transformed by the departures of the socialist autonomic government, which, one more exercise, resumes to differentiate itself from the rest of Spain with higher fiscal burdens. The Asturians are not only those who, by contrast, have the highest inheritance tax in Spain, but, unlike the other neighboring communities in the northwest - Galicia, Cantabria and Castile and León - we have been completely alone in applying it. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the state taxes handed over to the autonomous communities - in the case of successions - it is urgent to review the financing system which does not lead to higher tariffs to obtain additional resources. In this regard, I remind you that Pedro Sánchez made a solemn commitment that I would like to recall. I read his own words, contained in the Journal of Sessions of 4 January 2020, corresponding to his investiture: 'This will also be in coherence, as we announced in our progressive coalition agreement, the legislature of autonomous financing'. Thus proclaimed in this rostrum the then candidate for the Presidency of the Government. Today, after the equator of the XIV Legislature, we find another clamorous failure, that of the reform of autonomous financing, on which health, education and social services depend, and everything points out, according to what the Minister of Finance has been slipping in recent weeks, that there will be no reform of the system that has been in force since 2009 and that it should already have been readjusted since 2014. With this non-compliance, Sánchez claims that, in the case of Asturias, they are used to continue to apply a tax amounting to some EUR 86 million per year, an amount which, contrary to what might appear when talking about large appropriations and budgetary plans, is no less, especially when the Asturian public accounts are lashed and penalised by unproductive and ineffective public spending in one of the most ageing regions of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a government that has made deception a standard of conduct and the tax issue is no exception. The Ministry of Finance promoted a so-called committee of experts for the reform of the tax system, which gave it a white paper in early March with the ultimate aim of modernizing the Spanish tax system. It is relevant to point out that some of the experts resigned from such a committee, called upon to justify further tax increases. In short, I cannot agree more with this legislative initiative of the VOX Parliamentary Group, which seeks to promote tax equity among the Spaniards, live where they live; an impossible mission as long as we have manifest governments, starting with the state and its ministries of high cost and low efficiency, which have made spending a permanent bleed that leaves the whole economy exhausted in times when, as some of us anticipate in the amendments to the entire budget, the castles in the air of the government are crumbling dramatically. See the crazy escalation of inflation, the records in energy prices and the rest of the tearing down that are gallopingly impoverishing the Spaniards; all are consequences of the government's management, no matter how much the Council of Ministers and its media terminals - to which Mrs Cañizares has rightly referred - are committed to the causes of the invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops that began a month and a half ago. The current evils of our economy come from behind and, no doubt, they have been exacerbated as a consequence of the war, but above all they are due to the disastrous management that the Executive has carried out and its misconceptions that some of us have shown with amendments to the whole of the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for 2022, prepared in a reckless manner and without taking into account the severe warnings made by national and international authorities and agencies of all solvency. By the way, today the Banco de España has published its report on macroeconomic projections with very discouraging data, although Vice President Calviño will recommend it tomorrow in the control session with another sample of her fake exhibitions to deny our national central bank. I conclude, Madam President, by pointing out that many of us thought that the enormous dimensions of the economic crisis to which Rodriguez Zapatero's management dragged us were impossible to overcome. However, we did not count in the calculations with this bottled government of social communist coalition, which is not only stroking the current Spanish society with increasing tax burdens to cover its excesses - starting with the blue bank - but is ruining the future of the next generations of Spaniards. I will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u35	Thank you, President. Mrs Cañizares, I think you have much more justification for defending this PL than you have given today, because what you have done has been an exercise of populism that has so much criticized other political groups and, moreover, with jokes of quite bad taste for some to thank you on a subject that is of course important and that you have trivialized today defending this PL. [[Applauds]] VOX today presents us with a proposal for a law to abolish the inheritance tax. It is not a new proposal, because you have already brought it to the Committee on Finance. It was discussed there, although not approved, but with a substantial difference. In the Commission they only proposed the abolition of the inheritance tax and, paradoxically, there did not imply the obligation not to pay for the wealth received when it was inherited, because they did not make any changes either in the IRPF or in companies or income of non-residents; therefore, at that time it was an incomplete change. Today, however, they do correct it and also propose changes to these taxes. However, although they temporarily resolve the lack of income by abolishing this tax, they do not resolve how this lack of income in the common funding system will be addressed in the future. Furthermore, I am surprised that you have not been involved with the outside communities on this issue, as Mr Rivera of Citizens tried to do, here in his day defending a proposal for a law in this regard. Of course, do not count on us for decisions or populist exercises in which, once again, we are witnessing a decentralization of the powers of the autonomous communities, because, as you have said, we are talking about a state tax transferred to the autonomous communities and therefore they are violating both the financial autonomy and the tax power of the autonomous communities, which are recognized in Articles 156 and 157 of the Spanish Constitution-that to which they so claim to defend - and are also regulated in the LOFCA. Can you tell us, then, what level of autonomy is left in a decentralized State? We understand that, for you, in none, of course. In addition, his proposition tells half the truths. The inheritance tax does not oblige citizens to re-pay at the time of death for a property that has been earned throughout life and for which it had already been taxed. An income obtained by those who inherit or receive a donation is taxed, it is the one who benefits from the increase in that wealth and who logically has to assume the payment. Therefore, the tax does not impose the accumulation of wealth, but rather the transmission of that wealth above certain thresholds. On the other hand, although there are many reasons to reject an inheritance, the truth is that they seem to be being rejected more because of the existence of debts than because of the tax burden. For example, in 2007 only 3% of inheritances were rejected, when the tax on many autonomous communities was much higher. What has changed has been the economic situation. The crisis has triggered the resignations - it is true - because the economic situation is unfavourable. It must not be forgotten that receiving an inheritance is not only receiving property and rights, but also obligations; and, when these are greater than what you are going to inherit, the property is negative and, therefore, if you accept the inheritance, you must be held accountable for those debts. There are also statistics that say that only a small percentage of families inherit a wealth high enough to have an impact on their long-term economic future. We can understand that we want to modify the tax - rather than abolish it - to offer perhaps a much more specialized treatment, taking into account the different circumstances of the family relations, the nature of the goods and the acquired rights of the beneficiary. But, if we do, we understand that it must be carried out within the framework of a comprehensive tax reform which, of course, must count on the autonomous communities. In addition, it seems that a similar reform is that which is reflected in the report of the Committee of Experts and, if necessary, will have to be discussed in this Parliament. It is a tax that is maintained in the autonomous communities and not even those that are contrary to it repeal it, but that apply bonuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u37	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we Liberals say it loud and clear: the inheritance and donation tax is an unfair tax. It is unfair because it breaks with the constitutional principles of redistribution, progressiveness and equality. It is unfair because it breaks with equality among the Spaniards, disincentives savings, obliges in many cases to renounce inheritances and generates double taxation on goods already taxed in the life of the cause. It is such an unfair tax that we have eliminated it where we are or have been ruling, so unfair that in this House we ourselves have proposed its reform and harmonisation down in the past legislatures. The first thing we should point out about inheritance tax is that, although it is regulated at the state level, it is totally transferred to the autonomous communities. This leads to twenty different regimes with profound inequalities between citizens in taxing, because, in addition to the fifteen regimes of the autonomous communities of common regime, there is a tax outside Navarra and another different for Álava, for Vizcaya and for Guipúzcoa. You pay it or' you don't pay it, you pay more or you pay less, depending on where you live. In Spain you can pay the maximum or zero euros for the mere fact of living in one autonomous community or another. Even between parents and children you can pay less than 1% or up to 40% on the same inheritance. Is that fair, ladies and gentlemen? No, it's not. Nor is it the case for the Constitutional Court, which considers that paying all or nothing as a result solely of the residence of a Spanish citizen in one autonomous community or another is not the most reasonable criterion for sharing public burdens. The consequences of this arbitrariness in Spanish society are not slight. On the one hand, it leads to real relocations - but also fictitious - of the assets in order to avoid the tax and, on the other hand, it leads some citizens - already said here - to renounce the inheritance of their family members because they cannot cope with the amount or not be able to meet the tax deadlines required. In fact, the number of resignations has reached their peak in recent years. Yes, we agree with the proposing group on the need to repeal this tax, but, if you, ladies and gentlemen, do not agree, at least we are discussing its reform, as we have already proposed in Citizens on numerous occasions. Reform one: to eliminate the prejudices generated by this tax in business, business, agricultural and forestry transmissions. At the very least, let us work to reform it by expanding the beneficiaries of the reductions and promoting the transfer of businesses in operation, promoting the continuity of economic activity and, therefore, the generation of employment and wealth. Reform two: to extend the period of declaration and payment of the tax to at least one year in cases where the hereditary mass consists of 75 % or more of hard-to-sell assets and liquids, such as real estate or farms, so that taxpayers are more easily able to comply with their tax obligations, or even that the payment of this tax in kind can be foreseen. Of course, the abolition of the tax or its potential reform should be taken into account in the reform of the financing system of the autonomous communities. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mr Baldoví, how is the reform of autonomous funding in the communities going? [[Applauds]] Because I do not know if you have been told by the Government when it intends to address this reform. I know that whenever I have the opportunity he drew up this issue and I ask the same thing, but it is that equality is the fundamental principle on which all the other rights are articulated, and the Valencians are tired of all the promises of successive PP and PSOE governments that have failed in this area. I know what the groups who oppose repealing this tax are going to tell me: that the liberals only think about dismantling the welfare state. That's what they say every time we propose to adjust taxes to compensate for the Spanish's loss of purchasing power. But you know what? Let's not hang anymore. You are talking about abrogating the welfare state while you have fattened the composition of the government of thirteen or twenty-two ministries and three vice-presidents, with a record of advisors -1200- and travel in Falcon, and you refuse to reduce it at the time when the Spanish are going through the worst. They have budgeted for this year 158 million euros in advertising and institutional communication - or propaganda -, 35 million more than last year, while the Spaniards have to tighten their belts. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest report on the efficiency of public expenditure places Spain below the average of the European Union and the OECD, even behind countries in our environment such as Portugal, France or Germany. Since 2019, practically since you arrived in the Moncloa, we have dropped almost 10 points. This same report, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, we can say that it is possible to improve the efficiency of public spending in our country by up to EUR 60 billion while maintaining the same level of public services as so far; so stop making excuses, avoid superfluous and political spending and really work to improve the economic situation in our country. Accept the proposals that come from the opposition for the good of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u39	Thank you, Madam President. I begin by saying that the BNG is in favour of the inheritance tax being maintained, even if it can and should be modified, and also that there are exemptions - at least as long as it is not amended - for the lowest assets. I think it is clear that it is more difficult and proportionately more burdensome for a worker to approach the tax of an inheritance of 100,000 euros, for example, than for a rich one of 100 million. But here we are clearly in front of an ultra-right proposal for the rich to pay less taxes. That is essentially the question and, to justify it, the whole argument is based either on half truths or directly on fallacies. Let's just look at the claim that they are the middle classes and the working class the most harmed. The working class? Really? In Galicia the reduction is one million euros. Unless your working class model is Mr Espinosa de los Monteros and Mrs Monastery, it will turn out no. Of course in Madrid the bonus in the quota for descendants, spouses and ascendants is 99%; here the rich no longer pay. The fundamental problem is not that the ultra-right seeks to revolutionize the Spanish tax system to benefit the rich, that is expected and they are doing their job; the problem is that the proclaimed left self that governs does not do its own. Where is the so-bred and carried tax reform? When will a fairer and more redistributive tax system be more burdensome to those who have the most, big fortunes or big companies, for the benefit of the popular classes? That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Every time you climb up here the right carcass leaves this lost from cheap demagogy. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, are you against the inheritance of the Duchess of Alba paying taxes? [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group: No!]] Yeah. Are you against all these who are on the boards of directors that you have quoted paying inheritance tax? Yes, because, in short, this is what they do for their masters, and their masters are those. You never do anything for the workers. [[Applauds]] In the end, if they did not do so much demagogy, they would see that the workers when they inherit from their parents are exempt; for example, in Andalusia, 250,000 euros are exempt. Are there many who inherit more than 250,000 euros? Are there many? [[Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco: Yes, just inherit a house.- Rumors]] You always do this cheap demagogy of less taxes. Hey, who pays for health? Last week they wanted to increase defense spending and remove taxes. And who pays for health? In Madrid we are already seeing it: last week, 6000 on the street, with your agreement. With your agreement! Progress in Valencia we're going to hire 6,000 more. That's what taxes are for, so that people have health and not go to their health center and tell them to come back in six months. You want education to be paid for by those who have money, you want the rich to go to college. That's what you always want. VOX at the service of his masters. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u42	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u43	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cañizares, first of all, I would tell Maria to change her management. [[Laughter and applause]] If by inheriting a house in the village of 120,000 euros, living in Madrid where the inheritance tax is bonusd - not to 99%, but it is bonusd - it has to pay 40,000 euros, which does not delay in changing management, because I think they are wrong. [[Several Members: Bravo!-Applause]] Mrs Cañizares, you know that the reference value is being applied and that is impossible. These are not the old coefficients that the autonomous communities applied in an office. The reference value is reflecting the market value and, therefore, for 120,000 euros, the waitress who has come to live in Madrid will not pay 40,000 euros in inheritance tax. If you want to defend the repeal of the inheritance tax, you do not need to resort to these arguments so populist and so easy to dismantle. They can enter the website of the Community of Madrid, put 120,000 euros - the waitress can do it, she must be at least twenty-five years old, because she has inherited from her aunt and is now in Madrid and no longer in town - and will give her that she does not pay half of what Mrs Cañizares has said. [[laughs]] Having said that, by finding something positive that has the proposed law, I will tell you about the first transitional provision. They ask to compensate the autonomous communities; although when you come up here you no longer call them autonomous communities, but say that there are seventeen kingdoms of taifas. I don't know if in these realms of taifas they also include Castile and Lion. [[Applauds]] I say this because some responsibility will now be in one of these taifas realms. They ask to compensate them according to the collection obtained. I think it is VOX's first initiative in these Chambers that takes Catalonia above the other autonomous communities, because the biggest compensation would be Catalonia. Explain that to their bases, to which they are telling Catalonia steals. You're mostly offsetting Catalonia. Beyond this, the inheritance and donation tax surely requires a major reformulation, as does the Spanish tax system as a whole. There is a white book that I think is no longer going to travel, but you can't do demagoguery by saying that the tax is abolished and that you compensate the kingdoms of taifas, including Castile and Lion. That's about 2400 million euros. They would also have to explain where the government gets the EUR 2400 million from, because they don't explain it either. Well, the ministries, the advisors... except Castile and Leon. In any case, we are not going to support the initiative. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep your voice down in your conversations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u45	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. The VOX Group presented a proposal for a law repealing the inheritance and donation tax. In general, we always wonder if it's worth entering into the debate with you because of the false premises, sterile polemics and fake news that aim to become a society full of hatred. Hatred and lies is the only thing that you always offer us, gentlemen of VOX. But do you know what's going on? That in this PL they have dropped the mask and, therefore, we will try to dismantle their initiative with arguments. Mrs. Cañizares, you are part of a fallacious argument. It says in its PL that this tribute mainly falls to the middle and working class of this country and that this initiative is for the benefit of all Spaniards. In fact, you very much like to present yourself as defenders to the extreme of the working classes, of those who at this most difficult time are suffering the most. Nothing further from reality. His initiative and speech are propaganda to try to hide that they are the party of the traditional elites, the usual ones, with reactionary ideology and an economic program that only favors those who have more. In fact, the model in force today in the Spanish State remains more favourable to the renter than to the worker and what you propose today, gentlemen of VOX, is that the privilege is hereditary and benefits those who have not even contributed to generating the received heritage. That this tax that you intend to abolish today is a tool to tax those who have the most and redistribute wealth for the benefit of the working classes is first in public school, which you are never going to step on because you are classists and elites. [[Applauds]] I see you're applauding me. All right, all right. Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much, gentlemen of VOX, thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u46	Mr. Margall, wait a second. Please, I would really beg you to speak a little lower.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u47	I recognize that there is only one truth in the whole proposition of law, one: the fiscal dumping that some autonomous communities exercise - precisely, those in which you paint something, like that of Madrid- to attract taxpayers from other autonomous communities. But instead of proposing to root out that tax dumping, what you are proposing is to extend it. It's like pretending to end the thefts based on decriminalizing them. I am going to give you a figure that helps to dismantle the fallacy that this tax falls on the middle and working classes, a very simple figure: 83 % of citizens receive an inheritance of less than EUR 150,000. Therefore, they do not pay this tax and, if they do, they are a few euros. 86% of citizens pay less than 1000 euros. Only 5% of the largest inheritances pay more than EUR 10 000. And, no, Mrs. Cañizares, if you inherit your aunt's town house, you don't pay 47 000 euros. These are fake news, Mrs. Cañizares, they're fake news. [[Applauds]] Your proposal therefore harms the vast majority of society, but not you. Not you, because, as heirs of colonial fortunes, state lawyers, wealth administrators and millionaire inheritances, it would benefit you personally. It is a proposal by an elite party that aims to perpetuate its privileges. You are the party of the rich and we know perfectly well why you do it. If we look at the distribution of its electorate, the issue is very clear: its support is among the richest 10% of society and grows even more among the richest 1%. While they use hate speech, contempt for the different and fake news to try to mobilize wider sectors of society, the reality is that their political proposal is aimed only at meeting the material needs of the richest 10%, which in the end are the ones that finance and run their party. The only thing you can offer us, gentlemen of VOX, is more classism, and racism, more machism and more national Catholicism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communo Podemos-Galicia in Communo. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u49	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. I want to begin by subscribing to what my colleagues from Esquerra, Mr Margall, from the Galego Nationalist Block, Mr Rego, and from Compromís, Mr Baldoví, but I also want to subscribe to what Mrs Sagastizabal has said, including the reproach she has made, Mrs Cañizares - who I do not see there... [[Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco: Here, here!]] There I see it, thank you -, about the lack of tine in the tone it has used, a completely impertinent tone for the seriousness of the issues we are talking about. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Oooh!-Applause]] Thank you. I can understand that a parliamentary group comes to this Chamber with the undisguised will to defend its class interests, the ruling class; that is, it costs me, the truth is that it costs me, but I can understand that a minority of privileged people are frightened by the idea of giving up just a small part of their wealth to contribute to the common good. After all, they're pretty well used to it, so why would anything change? I even think of normalized the fact that fallacious arguments are being used, all of a sudden discredited and hollowed out as soon as one looks at them with some attention. Now, what is a little more difficult for me to forgive is that mania that you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, have of confusing your interests, yours and those of your four cousins, with the interests of the social majority. Let's go in parts. You say that the inheritance and donation tax implies a sort of double taxation. This is objectively false; objectively false. The transfer of assets is taxed exclusively and the taxable person is therefore paying only once. Talk to any prosecutor on the left or right and clear it up for sure. First falsehood. Second fallacy: the ISD discourages savings. Here we witness a whole deployment of a sovereign sandal. Do you have any clues? Do you rely on any statistics? Because, Mrs Cañizares, your many occurrences - which the truth is that you have them - are inversely proportional to the rigour you employ. Not a single data, not a single clue, nothing, all based on jokes and jokes. This is how you seek to justify your policies! Anyway, I think they've come up with it as they say. Because, not being this a tax on savings, certainly something could have to do with the future and present planning of it, I do not deny it. However, as far as I know, consumption is also taxed, I would even say it is heavily taxed. Therefore, even a perfectly informed and perfectly rational economic operator could not be disincentive to savings for this reason, because you will be dealing with the tax in one way or another. So where's the tax effect, Your Honor, where is it? Third fallacy: the ISD increases inequality. This one's already on the job! As you have already been told, this is of trachea, beyond a somewhat ambiguated deduction, not to say fanciful. Again I ask you: do you bring any proof, any statistical figures? I'm telling you, the answer is no. And you know why? Because it does not exist, Your Honor, because the OECD has been insisting for years precisely on the contrary, i.e. on the importance of this tax to correct inequalities. Moreover, twenty-four of the thirty-four countries that make up the body implement this fiscal figure. Belgium, France, Finland or Switzerland are some of the States that, in relative terms, as a percentage of the total collected, apply this tax figure in a more burdensome way than Spain and, as is known, all of them, especially Switzerland - right, ladies and gentlemen? - are victims of their own Bolshevik velities. This is known to everyone! Anyway... On the other hand, you point out some perverse effects generated by the implementation of this tribute in Spain. We have, in recent years, witnessed obvious fiscal dumping by some self-governments, which generates not a few distortions in the productive fabric, as well as inexplicable inequalities between regions. It would seem that the logical thing, then, would be to seek a certain harmonization of these figures handed over to the autonomous communities. Well, no. Instead, you prefer to flaunt those autonomous governments that blatantly practice such dumping; that is, sabotage their correct implementation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u50	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u51	Thank you, President. He said they sabotage their correct implementation and then argue that it must be withdrawn because it cannot be properly implemented. Fantastic, the argument is fantastic! Then why this whole cluster of falsehoods, half truths, and unrequited justifications? Because you strive to hide your own interests, your class interests. I insist, with how easy it would be to be honest! You wouldn't have to go to those impossible contortionisms and you wouldn't have to be hiding the plumer every two by three. Moreover, when you impose that laborist discourse, not only is it ridiculous to you, but it is outrageous, because - listen well, I will tell you with all the letters, ladies and gentlemen of VOX - in your life - in your life - you have seen workers more than when you look down to see where you step. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u52	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-The President holds the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a tax debate and the old mantras on the left have once again appeared. In the face of those who say that the tax is only paid by the rich, I don't know how many rich people you know who pay this tax. I do not know if you have heard of the heritage societies, the Sicavs and other fiscal instruments, which actually make those who do not pay, ladies and gentlemen, those you call the rich. The position of the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party on this issue is well known. We have supported the claim of the Stop Successions platform from its origin - it was born on my land, I know it well - and we are for the abolition of this tax. So it is that in the autonomous communities in which we govern - Murcia, Andalusia, Castile and León, Madrid and Galicia - this tax is increased by 99.9% because the tax cannot be abolished. [[applause]] I will give reasons to abolish this tax, beyond the fact that Mr Guijarro has looked like a majaderia. I haven't seen such a rude dialectic in this rostrum for a while on some arguments. Mr. Guijarro, I'm going to tell you, since you don't listen... [[Mr Guijarro García is speaking to another honourable Member.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u55	...with all the cruelty you've used to disqualify. Much louder I thought I saw you laughing at Mr Baldoví there, in that corner, with what is happening in Valencia and the behavior of your party, this party, with a counselor who has passed all the stripes, ladies and gentlemen, with a minor. That sounds a lot louder to me, ladies and gentlemen, a lot louder to me. [[Applauds.-Mrs.Montesinos de Miguel: Very good!]] Of course this tax is confiscatory! Mr Guijarro goes up here and says: no, in Europe it is charged. In 50% of the countries in Europe this tax is not charged; there are only three more countries, besides Spain, that charge it.Well, Mr Guijarro, you deny with your head. [[Mr Guijarro García's refusals]] It is a tax figure that clearly exposes the middle classes, because the rich do not pay this tax. I will explain it to you clearly: heritage societies, Your Honor, heritage societies! Third question. What do you mean, it doesn't discourage savings? If it's too easy, Your Honor! Between paying when you save and spending it before you inherit, because sometimes you spend it. Tell me what you call it in your economic terminology. And from a social and fiscal perspective, this is a very curious tax. Here everyone agrees that business activities affecting real estate are excluded from the payment of estates. Now, if they're deposits, if they're savings, if they're financial assets, then we see it very naturally; that's called fiscal dysfunction. These taxes, Your Honor, do not comply with the redistribution of wealth, because at the moment they do not take into account the capacity to pay from which it has to inherit: 15% in 2020 had to hand over the goods to the State. And it breaks with the principle of progressiveness. I'll tell them I didn't miss the speech at all. It is that, in the end, the left always does the same, that is, more taxes because public services have to be paid; the management is a lesson that the left has forgotten. Last Wednesday we attended a magnificent inquiry by Mr Delgado, in which he came to tell you: how is it possible that in Germany the Postal Service has won EUR 4 billion in 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, and how is it possible that here in Spain it has lost 300? It is very easy: in Germany you manage a manager and here a friend of Mr Sánchez's; do not look for another explanation to that question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] And yesterday Mr Sánchez asked a question to the air: how is it possible? The right wants to lower taxes to cut services. Well, look, I remembered at the time of 2010 in this rostrum; all taxes had been raised, only one was missing, the VAT, which was raised to 18%. What Mr Sánchez voted for, I repeat, what Mr Sánchez voted for: a 5% freeze on wages, a pension freeze, 67 years to collect the pension, 6 billion less in investment, 6 billion less for the autonomous communities, 670 million less aid to the third world, 2500 euros lost from the baby check and dependence lost its retroactive character. [[Applauds]] And then they come, ladies and gentlemen, to give cutting lessons. Believe me, it costs me. But in case they wanted some data In addition, the three autonomous communities that currently have higher tax rates and that are the only ones that have cut health in Spain are: Aragon, Asturias and Castile-La Mancha. Do you know who rules? The Spanish Workers' Socialist Party. [[Applauds.-Mrs.Montesinos de Miguel: Very well!]] And, Mr. Bel - who is not - collecting more does not mean better public services. Catalonia has the highest taxes in Spain. And you know what happens? They have had the worst health for five years, then something has to do, ladies and gentlemen, with the management of all these issues. Look, raise taxes, which is what you're obsessed with, you know what it does to us? Lose competitiveness. In 2021, according to the latest OECD report, we lost three positions. Ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? Well, I'll explain. When a government doesn't make decisions or doesn't make them right, like fuel, we see what happens: 80,000 jobs are at risk. You are specialists in blaming everyone except you, but then what happens, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are the ugly duck of the economy in Europe. This is not said by the People's Party, which also, says Eurostat, says The Economist and says it any medium-serious report you want to read. And you know what that means? It has an impact on the lives of citizens. 10% of inflation, ladies and gentlemen, should cause this government to think about taking action, but what is not to be done, ladies and gentlemen, is to raise taxes. I'm going to finish, Madam President. The harmonization of inheritance tax was discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something in Spain that is called autonomy. It seems a lie that Esquerra doesn't understand this. I understand that you are very upset that the Community of Madrid does not have the tax and is the most prosperous community in Spain, but do you know how that is done? Managing well and dedicated to the general interest, and not like you, who dedicate themselves to other things. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u57	Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u58	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, a few minutes ago we heard a dignified and exciting speech from the President of Ukraine, and from this rostrum I would like to reiterate our support for Ukraine and for citizens. [[Applauds]] A priori, it might seem curious that VOX presents this initiative in a context of war at the gates of the European Union, in which the government has to implement extraordinary measures to minimize the effects of war on our citizens. Of course, it is out of time, but very aligned with that unbridled career that keeps PP, Citizens and VOX to reduce and eliminate some tax figures. Some fallacies, half-truths and big lies have been used by VOX to discredit this tax. It was said that the tax had almost disappeared in our environment. It is maintained by Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Belgium Germany, France, Denmark, Finland, Austria, Italy, Portugal, Poland, Hungary, Lithuania, Croatia and, despite the Brexit, the United Kingdom. [[Applauds]] It is not present in Sweden, Estonia, Romania and Slovenia, and outside the European Union it is not present in China, India and Russia. It was said that the renunciation of inheritances has increased, when what happens is that the mortgage burden of some inheritances is what explains the renunciation. One example, ladies and gentlemen: in the Community of Madrid there is more renunciation than in the Autonomous Community of Aragon, with the bonus being greater in the first than in the second, therefore, one more fallacy. It was said to be a double imposition. Impossible, the Constitutional Court would not allow double taxation. It was said that the renunciation of these inheritances has increased, and I have already said the reason why this is simply a lie. And then a curiosity, ladies and gentlemen. VOX calls for the abolition of the inheritance and donation tax and, however, calls for the General Administration of the State to compensate the Autonomous Communities, which have transferred this tax. An entire coherence treaty is about VOX, which calls for the disappearance of the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] Social democracy in Spain, represented by the PSOE, has a radically opposite program, because it is the welfare state that overcomes the inequalities of cradle to achieve the freedom of citizens, which builds cohesive societies to strengthen democracy. And for that purpose, fiscal policy is a fundamental pillar: a just, progressive and redistributive taxation. It should also be pointed out that in order to get the rich to pay less taxes, VOX needs the popular layers of society to vote for them, because only the votes of the most income earners do not serve VOX to take their initiatives to the State's Official Gazette. This is one of the fundamentals of populism: VOX asks workers, self-employed people and small entrepreneurs to vote to lower taxes to the most powerful. [[Applauds]] Citizens, who only have politics so that inequalities disappear, so that inequalities do not reproduce permanently, must abandon all hope of improving their situation when they hear the right and the right wing say that money is better in the citizens' pocket, because this is a song to individualism, to save anyone who can, to recede into the welfare state, another mantra of VOX's hidden program. I give you some information, Mrs Cañizares: what citizen could pay, if you need it, a heart baipás, at a cost of 65,000 euros? What family, if it has a newborn child, could pay for a hospital stay that exceeds 67 000 euros? What citizen could face a heart transplant costing EUR 107,000? Which family could pay for a state-of-the-art biologic drug whose annual cost could be more than EUR 240,000? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what citizen could pay for a gene therapy treatment costing 2 million? [[Applauds]] The answer to this question is simple, ladies and gentlemen: any Spanish or Spanish, because we have built a National Health System that treats the pastor's son, my colleague Sancho Íñiguez, as well as Mr González Coello of Portugal. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] If we suppress it, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is also simple: only those who have great wealth, own or inherited will be able to pay for it. [[Rumors]] I could give you more data, but, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u61	How will we build in an unpopulated area of Spain, such as Extremadura, or in a depressed area of the big cities a public school of primary education, with the technological burden that a quality education needs, if it needs an investment of 4 million euros? Which family could pay 60,000 euros for your son or daughter to go to college? More information, ladies and gentlemen of VOX: if we weaken the state by abolishing taxes, how are we going to help transporters, farmers, farmers, tourism companies, electro-intensive companies, automobile companies and all sectors that have been affected by the crisis, as the government has done since the start of the legislature? How are we going to extend unemployment benefits, benefits to self-employed people or aid to ERTs, more than 30 billion since the start of the COVID pandemic? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, your populism can engulf some citizens who are affected by the succession of economic crises that we suffer... [[the rumors continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u62	Excuse me, Mr. Garcia, just a moment, please. Ladies, I'm asking you to be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u63	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, your populism can engulf some citizens who have suffered from the succession of economic crises we have suffered in the last decade, but they will not be able to deceive the social majority of this country. Its model of society and ours are antagonistic: VOX has a program that favors the elite, and Social Democracy has a program that favors the social majority; VOX has a fiscal program to privilege the wealthy classes, and in Social Democracy we base our social justice program on fiscal justice. For this reason, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that in the PSOE we will continue to expose your hidden agenda, in order to defend fiscal justice, freedom and democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u65	We are voting, first of all, on the proposal for a law of popular initiative for the recognition of legal personality in the Mar Menor lagoon and its basin. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 333 in favour, 265 in favour, 9 in favour, 274 in favour, 52 in favour, 1 in favour, 53 in favour, abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u66	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Greetings addressed to the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u67	We shall proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the abolition of inheritance and donation tax. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 329 plus 10 by-laws, 339; in favour, 148 plus 3 by-laws, 151; against, 181 plus 7 by-laws, 188.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-04-05-CD220405.u68	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night.
