ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that the questionings are discussed in accordance with the following order: items 24, 25 and 23 of the agenda. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposal of law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, which regulates the extinction of the right to private use of water by granting the hydraulic public domain for the industrial use of electric power production and the assumption of hydroelectric plants by the public entity Spanish Energy Production. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Echenique Robba.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal of law that my group brings to this House today is of pure common sense, of consensus in the developed world and is very necessary. With it, we propose to create a public energy company that recovers concessions from hydroelectric jumps as they expire, can install new renewable plants and can market energy directly to consumers. Our country has three major energy challenges. Firstly, and most urgently, to lower the bill for light, which is suffocating families and small businesses, but also to carry out an energy transition to renewable sources and to increase, on that path, our sovereignty and energy security. With the conflict between the United States and Russia, I believe we have all learned how dangerous it is that our energy supply depends on third countries and on the geostrategic conflicts that may occur. But these challenges: fair prices, green transition and sovereignty, it is impossible for us to engage - impossible - with more than 80% of our electrical system in the hands of a mafia oligopoly. Yes, mafia. I know the adjective is hard, but it is necessary, and not only because Mr Ignacio Sánchez Galán, president of Iberdrola, was accused of hiring Villarejo to blackmail his business rivals. The electric oligopoly has been fined on numerous occasions by the CNMC for illegally manipulating prices; they have emptied reservoirs to feed themselves by selling the megawatt/hydropower hour at gas prices and leaving entire regions without water; and they have threatened Spain to shut down nuclear power when the government has made laws that were not to their liking. They are private corporations with mob behaviors against which it is imperative to counter a large public energy company that protects the general interest. As I say, this is not a radical approach, but is normal in the developed world. The OECD average for States is 40% of the share ownership of companies. In Spain, however, we are below 5% and we are the second country, after Portugal, with the most privatized electricity market in the OECD as a whole. We could talk about the public company Verbund, in Austria; Vattenfall, in Sweden; Tennessee Valley Authority, in the United States, or ESB, in Ireland. Or we can talk about the French EDF, which is 84% public and which supplies 70% of the country's energy, and how the liberal Macron has used it to reduce a projected increase in the invoice from 44% to 4%, although this could mean a loss of more than EUR 8 billion in the company's profits. Meanwhile, here in Spain, the privatized Endesa, badly sold to the Italians and the revolving door of the Aznar incline, distributes €1400 million in dividends while expressing to the families. This is unfair, this is uneconomic and this has to end. Spain needs a public energy company. [[Applauds]] There is an intense debate in the progressive space about what to do to stop the extreme right. From my point of view, the solution is not by trying to establish sanitary cords that are impossible, simply because they forget that the Spanish right, unlike the German right, is not antifascist. What can stop the cheating monster full of hate we saw this Sunday surrounding the PP headquarters is for us to take courageous measures that will improve people's lives. Finally, I address the ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE with all due respect. If there is something that does not fit our law, let us negotiate during the parliamentary process and amend it; we have no problem. But preventing Congress from even processing the creation of a company only benefits the mafia oligopoly and also those who are already testing their bison hat in front of the mirror. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u4	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. For the same parliamentary group, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u5	President, ladies and gentlemen. Last Sunday, in a press article, Moisés Naím wondered why we have so much indolence in the face of the climate crisis. If we agree that the climate emergency is probably the most serious threat we are facing, why have we normalized it? It seems that in the last few days, with abnormally high temperatures, we speak with absolute naturality saying that we have to see what a good weather!, without taking into account that we are really facing a really serious phenomenon, a phenomenon in which governments have to act. One of the issues I was rightly addressing was whether governments have all the tools to put the accelerator against this climate crisis. We don't think so. We believe that in Spain we lack some tools and we believe that one of them is precisely this public energy company that we are proposing here today. Therefore, in Spain it is necessary to set up a new institutional and productive framework, backed by democratic control and which will be an essential agent in achieving the objectives set out in the green horizon, pushing towards the transformation of the electricity market. Ladies and gentlemen, this very morning, at this parliamentary seat, the European Commissioner for Energy, Mrs Kadri Simson, reminded us that European energy policy is based on three axes: firstly, decarbonisation; secondly, security of supply and, finally, that energy prices are affordable. Well, for each of these three axes the creation of a public energy company would be very positive. Of course, in Spain we need more public tools to address the many relevant issues related to energy production. We have already talked about the price, the climate emergency or the energy transition itself, which would benefit from the presence of a new public actor. What do we propose? How do we propose to do that? We plan, first of all, to assume hydroelectric concessions once they are extinguished, regardless of the cause. Water, as you well know, is a public good. For a period of time the State allows private companies, through concessions, to exploit hydroelectric power, but once these concessions win, they must return to the State and it is the State that must manage these hydroelectric jumps from that moment on. According to the data of the Sustainability Observatory, around 7 % of concessions, in terms of embalmed volume, have already expired, however, to many of the plants have been extended automatically. Until 2030 the forecast is that another 8% can be recovered, and in order to anticipate and plan these deadlines we envisage the creation of a public register in our proposed law. According to Red Eléctrica, 17 098 megawatts of hydroelectric power are installed in Spain... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u7	... controlled mainly by the energy oligopoly: Iberdrola, Endesa and Naturgy. Because of its characteristics, this technology allows you to store and plan how and when to generate electricity with your pumps and turbines to maximize power generation. This summer we have seen how in the cases of the reservoirs of Ricobayo or in the case of Monfragüe the private interest in the management of the reservoirs has been put forward, causing serious damage to the peoples and people living on the banks of those reservoirs. In addition to public management of the hydroelectric jumps once the concessions are over, we propose that this company participate in the creation of new plants of electricity generation based on renewable energies, which, by the way, would serve to accelerate the fulfilment of the objectives set out in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan. We also raise your ability to act as an energy trading company. The electricity market, as has been said, is currently dominated by an exclusively private oligopoly, which makes it difficult to achieve the objectives set on the green horizon. As for its impact on citizens, this public enterprise will be responsible for implementing a reduction in the bill for light and ensuring that no one suffers from energy poverty, for which it will work in a coordinated way with the municipal public enterprises already created or which can be created in the future for the marketing and management of its own energy. If the current bill were adopted, the public undertaking would be set up within a maximum of one year, although six months earlier an audit would be carried out to clarify the state of existing hydraulic concessions. The agency would be attached to the Ministry of Ecological Transition and would have a separate heritage from that of the General State Administration, although it could receive transfers and budget allocations; however, it would generate revenue from its own production, management and marketing activities. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are proposing today is that a public good such as water be managed by the public and for the public benefit. As Pablo Echenique has said, we are putting on the table a proposal of pure common sense. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u8	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this proposal for a law should broaden its objectives in order to be in line with the EU winter package in relation to energy efficiency and storage, in relation to citizens' energy communities and in order for the active consumer and demand management to be at the centre of the energy system. Similarly, in the explanatory statement we see no reference - it would be necessary - to the origin and social and territorial cost that represented at the time the policy of hydroelectric concessions in the Spain of the twentieth century, which promoted the development of hydraulic infrastructures and hydroelectricity, but had a huge socio-territorial impact on villages and mountain regions that remained under water and with its inhabitants forced to emigrate. The reverse of the development of hydroelectricity is that the concessions to hydroelectric companies and the construction of the reservoirs caused the drowning of valleys and fields of cultivation and the disappearance under water or the transfer of numerous nuclei. It is impossible to cite all its names, but serve as an example Talavera la Vieja, in Cáceres; Portomarin, in Lugo; La Muedra, in Soria; Tiermas, Ruestra, Fayón and Mequinenza, in Zaragoza; Barasona, Mediano, several nearby nuclei and Jánovas - whose reservoir did not come to be built - in Huesca; Argusino, in Zamora; Sant Romà de Sau, in Barcelona; Medianedo, Armada, Quintanilla, Lodares and Ferreras, in León. In other words, in many mountain regions the policies of reservoirs and hydroelectric plants led to depopulation. The reversal of concessions now must therefore help to correct depopulation through the distributed generation and drive of local renewable energy companies. Similarly, as in other issues of the current energy policy, in this proposal there is an omission of its territorial dimension. The current context indicates that it is necessary to preserve hydroelectric installations as far as possible and to address specific situations in the finalization of concessions, such as the preservation of the Toranes dam in the Mijares River in Teruel, due to its proven profitability and its contribution to the fight against fire, to the dynamism of ecological agriculture, to the settlement of the population, as well as to the conservation of the hydrological heritage. While it is true - as stated in the explanatory statement - that hydroelectricity must play a role in balancing and storing energy production, as well as preventing the speculative use of water resources - that it has unfortunately happened in the last summer, it must also be admitted that the distribution and location of hydroelectric power plants in territories marked by depopulation must enable the function of correcting this and territorial imbalances to be combined, together with the assigned purposes, so that this policy on hydroelectricity is an opportunity to expand the possibility of new sites in the territory, such as small energy production facilities, as well as to introduce a line that is still almost undeveloped in the renewable energy policy in Spain, as is the distributed generation. With regard to public energy institutions and the need to place the citizen at the centre of the electricity system, why can these Spanish local administrations in small and large cities not develop public renewable energy companies, as is the case, for example, in Germany? This bill is an opportunity to collect that limitation, to really bet on the distributed generation, to rethink the role of public enterprise, to boost local enterprises...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u10	Mr. Guitarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u11	... and boost citizens' energy communities, so that we can see a democratisation of electricity, as proposed by the European Union's winter package. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u13	Thank you, President. It is very good news this initiative that brings us today Podemos for the end of the private use of water for energy production. It is an essential initiative. We only have - let's say - a couple of differences. We would talk about public enterprises and, in addition, local energy communities, which we think would be very easy for hydroelectric plants. In any case, we agree on the fundamental thing, which is to recover the public use of water to make energy. In fact, the CUP brought a non-law proposition... it's a little uncomfortable, I know they have a lot of problems, but... [[Rumors]] [[Addressing a group of ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress who talk in their seats]] Thank you. In fact, the UPC brought to this plenary a GNP which was approved... [[The rumors continue.-Pause]] It brought the CUP a GNP from which an item was adopted, which was a report on the status of concessions, a report we are still waiting for. In fact, we have recorded some questions for the ministry to see what about this, because we saw not long ago, in December, in Diario.es, that a public contest had already been opened to look at the state of concessions and that there were already large companies fighting to carry it out. Let us hope that the ministry will give us the details. It seems to us an essential initiative. Why? For three fundamental reasons: the first is that the price of energy goes up, goes up for families and goes up for small and medium-sized enterprises and there are a lot of people who have to close. The price of energy rises while the Civil Guard, not many days ago, accuses Iberdrola of emptying swamps. The news spoke specifically of Zamora. The second reason is that the water situation is very critical: it does not rain, large spaces of water resources are contaminated - in Doñana is happening right now - and there are fires like the one declared tonight in my house, in Ampurdan. The mountain is now burning, right now, in the middle of winter, because it does not rain and there is no water. The third reason is that the big ones of IBEX, the old ones, those who don't stop making money, are fed at the cost of our water, at the cost of our lives, at the cost of our fields. But I want to put an end to another issue, and I want to take a step further than the speech made by the comrades of the Union Podemos. Today we want to talk about ecocide here. It is already a crime, it is the systematic crime against the environment, which is primarily responsible for climate change. This crime has responsibility, which are the big corporations, usually the same big corporations that make campaigns to wash their faces green or that dare to finance campaigns for people on foot to recycle. In addition, there are a lot of ads that try to blame themselves for not throwing the plastic bottle at the plastic site and on the glass site, because climate change is your responsibility. No, ladies and gentlemen, the climate emergency situation is, above all, the responsibility of the big corporations. This is called ecocide. It is what is happening in Doñana, it is what Mr Florentino Pérez has done to the Baix Maestrat and to the Montsià - Castor case - and it is what Iberdrola is doing with the swamps. Either them or us. Either water or life. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u15	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. We and we, for the visible purpose, with the enunciation of this proposed law, have no objection. It seems good to us; it captures the feeling and demand of different political groups in this House, mainly from the left, for the need to build or set up a public energy company. Not only that, but also to end the private uses of a common good such as water. That is the visible purpose and, as I say, with that we can have no objection and we will not have it. We will support it, but there are probably other purposes perhaps not so visible; those purposes - we say this honestly - do not know if they help too much the Government's own initiative and development, because there are those who can ask themselves if it is not logical that this initiative should be endorsed by the two groups that support the Government, because that would give it guarantees of viability; that is, it would make it possible for it to be approved and, therefore, citizens would see that today's debate has a practical result in their lives because the time legally needed would give way to the adoption here today having a concrete result, as I say. However - let me, and I regret to do this spoiler - the result will be that a few political forces, presumably the left political forces, align with this position, we portray ourselves in support of this initiative and we will do so without problem, but the lives of the citizens of this state will remain exactly the same. Because presumably - and I also say this with some regret - we will not get it approved. That, in a context where the discrediting of politics - and this is not his responsibility, but rather of other benches - seems to be at its highest peak for reasons of distrust, I do not know to what extent it strengthens the Government itself in terms of initiatives that do not involve the prior agreement and therefore do not have the feasibility of carrying out themselves. Having said that, as I have pointed out, we will support it because we agree with it, but we would like this to be an initiative of the whole Government and not of one of the forces, because that would give rise to the impression that the programmatic agreements are being implemented and that this change is taking place - I am not saying that change, but even that change - which was promised when the Government was acceded to. In any case, as was said before, we believe that it is urgent to put an end to oligopoly. I don't even know how many times we've said it in this rostrum. It is likely that the prices of light - or electricity, to be more precise - have reached the historic peaks that have reached and also occupied space in people's concerns has made this debate very recurrent in this House, and we have had many opportunities to point out to those responsible. Today Iberdrola has been quoted again - on some occasion we have already done so since Euskal Herria Bildu - and we could continue to quote company to company, because it is ultimately the oligopolie that should keep this situation as it is. And whoever allows this situation to remain as it is would have to explain to people who prefer not to continue to anger the electric oligopoly than to give answers and satisfy the interests of the citizenry. However, it must also be said with sincerity that the scope of this initiative, although necessary and positive, is a limited scope. We are talking about that this public undertaking could take 12% of all the electricity produced; the electric oligopoly has more than 88% of the control over the energy produced in the Spanish State. That 12% that we could achieve for the public enterprise we will achieve after years, if not decades, of recovery for the public of all these enterprises. Then I believe that it is also important that you say not to take your courage away, not to take away the importance of the initiative, but for no one to understand that you are being commulgated with mill wheels or that you are being transferred to a reality that is not exactly what is going to happen. But we believe that it is necessary not only to put an end to the electric oligopoly, but to reverse the situation, and it is necessary to put an end to the whole process of privatization that the Spanish state governments have begun for decades. They have already quoted Iberdrola, I will not speak of her today; I will speak of Endesa. Endesa was a public company that decided to privatize first Felipe González, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and then José María Aznar, of the Popular Party. One started it, the other developed it. And who ended it? A person of infamous memory, at least for us and ourselves: Rodolfo Martín Villa. It is therefore a matter of recovering all that land and ensuring the exploitation of a common good, because it is still a little strange for someone to have to go up to this rostrum to explain that the management of a common good would have to carry out a public administration, since it is a common good. Because leaving a common good in the hands of a private entity, what it can do is that someone, as has happened, understands that the right can be commercialized and that access to that right can be commercialized; that anyone who has money to access it can have access to that right, and that therefore no one who lacks that money can have access to that right. Of that all citizens know very well, because they see the indecent benefits of the companies of the electric oligopoly Iberdrola, Endesa, Naturg Y or EDP, year after year and pandemic through or without pandemic. We, three weeks ago, in a motion in this House, have already raised something similar to this, and I read the literal tenor of what we were saying: to promote, through the corresponding legislative changes, the creation of a public energy company, as well as to facilitate the creation of public electricity marketing companies on all institutional, local, autonomous or provincial scales, also with the dual aim of addressing the lack of energy well-being of a multitude of households and reducing market power to large electricity companies. Because, ultimately, it's not just about taking small steps, it's about having an integral vision. In this debate, beyond the result, we would like to extract something in clean. That is, do we believe that the right to access electricity is a right that must be guaranteed to all citizens? We and we, the Basque sovereignist and independenceist left, believe that we do. Do we believe that it is urgent to end - and not to reduce, but to end - energy poverty? We and we believe that we do, and we assume that millions of people living in energy poverty will think the same. Do we believe that social vulnerability should be drastically reduced? I understand you do. In the Spanish State, from 1995 to 2022, the population at risk of vulnerability or poverty has never fallen by 18%. You can say that you have all the democratic endorsements you want, you can say that you have all the democratic fullness you want, but the reality is that almost 20% of your population, there is poverty, there is wealth, we live in an expansive cycle or in a regressive cycle, we live always at poverty levels. The Foessa and Caritas report says this: three of the ten indicators that indicate the population in vulnerability or poverty have to do with electricity, water and heating. It is therefore a right to have decent lives, access for all and not only for those who can afford it. We therefore believe that the most important part of this debate would be that we agreed on a comprehensive plan to move towards a planned transition - and I say this, of course, planned by the public, just and democratic authorities. This is just a link in the integral recovery of energy generation, transmission, distribution and management. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u17	Thank you, President. It is true that today we will not see this union between the two groups that are part of the Government, because they have different criteria. It's true that that wasn't in the deal either, but it is. It brings us today the proposal of a public energy company. For what purpose? The one about reducing the price of energy? Do you really think it's for this? Because I believe that, by sticking to the reality of the market, by sticking to the asset situation, by sticking to the cost situation, I don't know if that's much to say. I think they start the house a little on the roof. Because a company, per se, for being public is not going to make prices go down. And you know why? Because it is subject to the same market rules. Can you get out? Can you skip the pricing system? No, no, Can it make allowances go down? No, no, What assets does it count on? For now, and I'm sorry to say, with none. Do they have enough assets, perhaps, to influence the price with a single technology and to have such extraordinary benefits? Neither. The only asset they could dispose of are hydraulic concessions, yes, but when? In 2030 or, when the older women win, in 2040. What cost structures will this company have? Who would bear those costs, when there are power stations, moreover, as you know, which must be dismantled? They talk about benefits per se. What if there's a loss? Who's taking them? If there are no benefits or are not enough, how are the necessary investments made? By resorting to debt? They have given us the examples of Italy, Sweden or France, but the truth is that, having a public company, prices, today, are very similar to those that are being given here. Nor do they tell us that EDF, France, is heavily indebted and that France, in addition, has a system agreed with Europe until 2025 so that 25% of nuclear energy is sold at a fixed price, which other countries cannot do, because prices have to be set by market mechanisms. It is true that France has lowered the price of consumers; yes, with nuclear energy. But what they do not say is that it is not enough for them with that nuclear energy that they produce and that they therefore have to buy the rest of the energy from the market at the prices that they are today, with which they do not cover costs. And what has the Welsh government done? It has forced EDF to lower the bill, but, on the other hand, to alleviate this cost, it has resorted to an expansion of social capital, a money that will come out of all taxpayers, who are really going to have to pay. We understand the approach. You start from the fact that if a public company does not do business with light prices will be more competitive, but I think they do not take into account the other variables that I have just mentioned, neither the market nor the costs nor the investments nor a long etc. What cannot be done is that we have lower prices because we are not efficient and do not cover the costs of that public enterprise, because sooner or later it will have an impact on taxpayers. It is true that water has been setting the maximum prices, because they offer the so-called opportunity cost: they calculate at what price the gas station would offer that would replace it and set a price a little below. We understand that this would not be a public enterprise. But would offering only a price to cover generation costs be sufficient? No, no, How is the rest of the costs covered? And how are new investments made? Because you told us you were going to invest in new renewable plants. It seems that fish and bread multiply. But, having said this, I also understand that we should have a clear road map around the hydro power plants that are going to win, because there are still going to be problems of supply and demand cassation and we are going to need manageable power plants that allow us to occupy, of course, those gaps that are produced by distortions between supply and demand, because renewables generate when they want and there is no storage. The truth is that the only manageable renewable generation is hydro and biomass. Perhaps we should think of some kind of regulation so that the hydro genera follow the instructions of the system operator instead of instructions of market profitability, that is, regulate not the prices, but when it is turbineed. We believe that it is not the time, of course, for these kinds of proposals, which seem somewhat populist to us, because the price is high today and it seems that it will remain so throughout 2022. Your proposal, neither today nor in the short nor medium term, is going to lead to a fall in prices. Even if this proposal were adopted today, the lives of citizens would remain the same if we did not take other measures. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u19	We understand that a price reduction has been promised, but today it is not achieved with this proposal; a proposal which, of course, in our view, has more shadows than lights. In addition, European competition law requires public undertakings operating in competitive or liberalised markets, such as electricity, to operate in accordance with the principle of competitive neutrality. And public companies, today, if they have lower prices - those that have lower prices - at a given time is not because they are public, but because of the generation mix they have. In the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act we gave ourselves a period of twelve months to make a proposal together with the CNMC for a reform of the electricity sector, so that we would have to be able to establish a framework and legislation that will boost and prioritize, as Mr Guitarte has said, the democratization of the electricity system, which is what he wants to boost Europe, in which the consumer is truly placed at the centre of energy policy, favoring distributed generation and creating energy self-consumption communities, etc., which will make the bill better. Politicians should be working to create this framework and to develop legislation that favors what I have just said. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u21	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is curious to see Podemos' proposals to deal with the wild and wild rise of light. The populism manual for these situations is quite simple. That the price of light is raised on the bill in a disorbited way? Well, if I'm in the opposition, I'm either going out on the street or I'm politically manifesting myself quite vehemently. But the easy option is, when you're in government and you really see that you can't do anything or you don't know what to do, that you invent things like this. Things change, as I say, when you're in government. So what does the Podemos Ideology Manual say? The rise of light is not the fault of the Government; well, if any, of the opposition. Trying to ban the problem; well, they really do, they do a lot, as they have done with the meat, with the game, and in the case of energy it would seem more difficult, but we can get over it every day and no longer only know how to ban the problem, but now also ban the solution. And it is that the nuclear resource would be interesting, and today the Commissioner of the European Union has said so. What are you doing, too? To confront the population, producers and consumers; producers and distributors; the public sector with the private sector. It is a classic that we have already seen in such sensitive matters as education, health or the primary sector. Who? Well, they're creating a small-town, a state-owned company. I know that you, Mr Uralde, are not in favour of rotating doors, but we know that the Socialist Party has not long ago used a rotating door for some Member of this House. And another thing they do is that if they don't like it and they can't ban it, they're taxing it. And that's how we can't go on. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been seen, Citizens will vote against this proposal, for inefficient and populist reasons. Gentlemen of Podemos, I'm sorry, but you are still hostage to your pacts and to what you were doing in the opposition when the bill went up infinitely less than now. They are turning the Spaniards from energy poverty to dry poverty with the rise not only of electricity, which is obviously not the fault of this government, but it is his fault that he does not put real solutions to real problems. Ideology does not solve this problem. Do you not realize that what you are proposing to solve an energy problem is to exclude nuclear energy and create a new public enterprise, one more? Are you not aware that this will result in more public spending, to be covered by cuts in other items, and by more tax increases? Furthermore, we have to say that we know that a public undertaking will not stop the rise of light, for the simple reason that the problem is not anticompetitive practice, but, if any, that the market is actually reflecting the costs and externalities of electricity generation. This proposal would only be feasible if it were to ensure that the public sector did not incur additional costs and that the managing company acted on the basis of rationality and cost-effectiveness criteria. What cannot be allowed under any circumstances is that a public undertaking, not energy, works at a loss for inefficiency or unfair competition with the rest of the undertakings. In the energy case, moreover, what you propose would be a deception, a fraud. The bill for light would be lowered in exchange for higher taxes on the other hand. In practice, it would involve increasing public debt and assuming such losses through transfers to budgets. It'd be getting out of one place to put in another. Who would finally pay for it? The Spanish. Not to mention also - oh, surprise! - that the proposal does not provide sufficient forecasts for the control and accountability of that public enterprise. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot start the house on the roof. In the case of hydroelectric plants, consideration should be given to their role before deciding what management they should have. Generation, storage, both alike, or is it superior to one another? But this strategic and vital decision has to be made and only then will it make sense to talk about a management model. But not everything is negative in this proposition of law - we do look at what and not who -. Citizens are in favour of the proposal to draw up a report on existing concessions, provided that it is accompanied by a measure that the liberals have been demanding for a long time, when the price escalation began, and that a full analysis be made of the possible water use that can be made on the Iberian Peninsula, both for the generation of hydroelectric plants and for storage in pumping plants. Thus, we give more use to the measure, orienting it to the fall in the price of electricity, which is our main objective. However, his Government had ignored that claim and had come to see it directly in the handling of the 2022 State General Budgets. And why? Because solving the problem is secondary to this Government, the main thing is to confront one another. In Citizens, it is a serious mistake not to promote the questionability of hydroelectric nuclear technologies, either by political decision or by lack of exploitable electricity. This same government, of which Podemos is a party, has failed in its absurd attempt to remove Spain from the Community system of price fixing and has received letters from the European Commission expressing concern about market intervention approved and then amended by Royal Decree Law 17/2021 and has opposed the inclusion of nuclear technology in the Community green taxonomy. The credibility, therefore, of a governing party in bringing forward a proposal like this, at least, is questionable. Ladies and gentlemen, Citizens share the concern about the use of public resources and are fully in favour of monitoring, reporting and preventing corporate abuses of water uses. However, we are convinced that the most effective and efficient way to achieve this is through absolute transparency and proper enforcement of the Water Act, not through increased public spending, which, as always, will have to cover Spanish households and businesses. Gentlemen of Podemos, we cannot support this bill, because we believe it is not the solution. You think so, but that's how you'll be fooling all the Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u25	Thank you, Madam President. A historical objective of the BNG is that the production of electricity - in which our country, Galicia, has specialized and also pays the social and environmental costs of that specialization - serves the public interest rather than nourishing the growing accounts of results of the great electrics while the popular classes pay electricity at unorbited prices. That is why, beyond the strategic proposal for the nationalisation of large electricity companies, we immediately advocate a new regulation of the electricity sector, a Galician electricity tariff or the creation of public energy companies - public companies -, in our case a Galician public company that starts to manage the jumps in which the concession ends. In Galicia we have 47 hydropower plants and 122 mini-hydraulic plants in the hands, mainly, of only three large companies, which take advantage of a public good like water to do business. Recently, some concessions have expired, such as that of the Cerves River in the region of O Ribeiro, but instead of regaining that concession for public administration, this government extended it for twenty-five more years to Naturg Y: more business for the electric oligopoly. That is why we think it is right to open the way for public administration. That's right, UN We can, beyond plurinational rhetoric, deepen in all its legislative proposals the dynamics of political decentralization of the State. There's Article 2.1. Why can an expired concession in Ourense or in the Miño-Sil Hydrographic Confederation not be managed by a Galician public company, in the event that, as the BNG defends, it is created? [[Applauds]] Finally, we will vote in favour, because we are talking about the consideration and, as we said, it seems necessary to open the debate on public management of electricity production. There will be time for debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u26	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u27	Thank you very much, President. I have to say we're going to vote in favour. It seems to us common sense that public interests are managed from public administrations; I think it is in the drawer. I was reading to prepare the speech and I met with an article by Rafael Méndez, of 2019, who said that in 1926, that is, in the middle of the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera and one day after the death of Rodolfo Valentino, who was in silent films, the concession of the river Esla was given to a company. That concession will reach the year 2040: they have been 116 years collecting fallen benefits from heaven, collecting benefits from all. That's how the liberal world works. Everyone, for a few. That's how it works. This summer, moreover, we have heard that Iberdrola dried several reservoirs, for example that of Ricobayo, which was in May at 94% and in August left it dry, at 10%. The same happened in other basins, such as those of the Duero, the Tagus or the Mino-Sil. Why are the reservoirs emptied? For public service? By service to the citizens? Why do you need risks? No, no, The reservoirs are emptied to generate electricity, like this summer, which was very high light, and to collect profits of everything, to do business with a resource of all, to the point that some villages had to supply themselves with tanks. It is therefore common sense for public services to be able to manage things that belong to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u28	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor also for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u29	Thank you, President. This bill brings back to this House the bill to set up a public electricity company. I don't know if the proponents have gone through their heads to repair in the acronym that forms Spanish Energy Production or'business public entity, come on, PEPE. PEPE objectives: to produce electricity of hydraulic origin and renewable sources, to distribute and market and to promote the transformation of the electricity market. If we take into account that 90% of the Spanish electricity market is in the hands of the three major oligopoly companies and that all governments, all of them, have great difficulties in achieving their cooperation in implementing measures to reduce the price of the electricity bill, PEPE is absolutely timely. Do we agree with a proposal aimed at restoring the management of hydroelectric power stations which have already exceeded the maximum private concession period? Yes, quite bluntly. But are we in favour of it being a public enterprise attached to a Spanish ministry that runs these power stations? In Catalonia, no; we are not in favour. We do not want a public undertaking to centralise the management of Catalonia's hydroelectric resources. If there is an end to a hydroelectric concession in Catalonia, for example in the Pyrenees, and this concession must go to public ownership, we want it to be from a Catalan, autonomous or local company. It is true that the proposal does not require the Ministry's company to be granted the private use of water for the industrial use of electricity production. What it literally says is that this right can also be granted directly by the relevant autonomous community to the corporate public entity. Okay. In Catalonia, however, we already know that the devil is burdened with the writings and that every time the state legislates to harmonize the policies to be developed in the different autonomous communities comes the expolio. Last Friday, following the bilateral meeting between the Spanish and Catalan governments, I heard the Minister of Territorial Policy, Isabel Rodríguez, say that for ten years Catalonia did not advance in self-government and described as historical the four transfers that have been made in Catalonia, when they are very far away from not less historical demands. But while they say that in Catalonia, they withdraw far more extensive competencies in Madrid, such as the waste canon, lost in Congress and with a second round in the Senate that presents itself impossible. So don't get us so harmonized. In addition, we wonder: does this proposal conceal the intention to liquidate the existing concessions before they come to an end, with the cost and years of litigation that it may entail? Let's see, if we want to rescue concessions by breaking contracts, go ahead, but if we have to pay the compensations that in its day the judge will impose, that is at least for each territory to manage its own hydraulics, considering that the water of the internal basins is a transferred competition, and not to create a new administrative monster, in the pure Jacobin style, to which the Spanish national left has us accustomed. We also demand that the current Water Act, conceived in the 1980s, be amended before, and that the territory that was affected in those times be first heard. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u31	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Members of the United Nations We can, we welcome the fact that today we start the plenary with the debate on what the future of the management of hydroelectric plants should be and we welcome the fact that no one has been able to bring the circle to the jokes about political today. The management of hydroelectric concessions is a very serious issue, on which we have worked extensively various groups in this House, in particular and modestly Republican Left. The United Nations spokesman will remember We can see the amendment tabled by our group to the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, which provided for the non-extension of current concessions and which, in the case of new concessions, do not exceed twenty years. They will also recall the various initiatives defended both in this House and in the Senate by Esquerra with the aim of regaining public ownership of these hydroelectric power stations. You will remember - if not, I remind you, for the Journal of Sessions to do so - that you have done nothing for such initiatives to prosper. Now they've changed their minds. Welcome. [[Applauds]] Because if in anything we can fully agree with you it is that a profound change in the energy model is needed. Ending the electric oligopoly and increasing competition in the system seems to us to be an essential issue in order to end the unsustainable rise in electricity prices. This new energy model is irremediably going to restructure the current model, establish a model with public control, free from monopolies and establish a fair, equitable, competitive, environmentally sustainable and transparent energy price system. And since this PL will end up as the sonnet of Gongora - 'on land, in smoke, in dust, in shadow, in nothing' -, I also recommend that they be applied in what has already been approved: the amendment of Esquerra to the Law of Climate Change and Energy Transition that has prospered and that in the final disposition 11th obliges the Government of which you are part - even if it seems not - to bring in a year since its publication a new law of the electric sector. [[applause]] It will be completed in May, Mr López de Uralde; it will be completed in May and we have not even heard of drafts. By then, please recover your seditious confederal spirit, self-improve yourself in hasty bulwarks such as overly lax consideration of public water domain and, please, seek propaganda with less serious things. Cheer up. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u33	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Echenique, I imagine that from the coat of vision is said by your former advisor, Podemos, Cristóbal Gallego, Councillor of Enagas, who has charged almost 70,000 euros in just six months. I guess he says so for him. [[Applauds]] Turning to the question, today we are discussing a proposal for a law of the communist group of the House which, like any communist initiative, is limited to urging state control of anything; in this case, of hydroelectric plants to create a public energy company called 'Spanish energy production'. I wish this government could move the water through Spain with the same looseness with which the water dances to the communists, separatists and bildutaras in order to keep itself at all costs in power. But, as we have explained more often, a public energy company is not the solution to high energy prices. In their proposal for a law they state that direct management of the hydroelectric fleet through a public undertaking could solve the high price of the electricity bill. That is literally what they say in their proposal. Well, this is simply a lie. Perhaps it was the solution to put your friends and family in another little chiringuito - I don't doubt that - but certainly not to lower the electric bill to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Besides, we have numerous examples, it's not something that says VOX. We have many examples, such as that of Italy, with its public company paying an average price higher than in Spain; or that of France, where the Government has just announced a recapitalisation for more than EUR 2 billion due precisely to the economic difficulties of its public energy company; or that of Mexico, with very high electricity prices, four blackouts in the last three years and its public energy company in technical bankruptcy. But without going so far, the public electricity of his fellow Kichi in Cadiz, Eléctrica de Cadiz, has been forced, like any other private company, to raise prices in order to avoid incurring losses. Ladies and gentlemen, the only difference between a public and a private enterprise is that the public is subject to the interests of politicians and the private to the interests of the market, which we are all citizens of this country. [[Applauds]] In addition, a public energy company only ensures that costs and risks are borne by the money of all Spaniards and does not offer any added advantage to private management. If today there was a public company composed of all the hydroelectric plants in Spain, the price of energy would continue to set historical peaks every day. Why? Very simple, because it would continue to operate in a regulated European market with the same rules for everyone, regardless of whether management is public or private. So, gentlemen of Podemos, stop diverting attention from the real problem, which is you, your political decisions and those of this government. Those are the ones that have caused and continue to cause an increase in the price of energy and not the ownership of the companies that manage it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what would happen if we had right now operating the nuclear power plants shut down by bipartisanism? What would happen if we could continue to count in this energy crisis with the coal thermal power plants that you so hastened to shut down? Do you think we'd be in this situation? Well, surely not. And surely the reservoirs would not have been emptied by high electricity prices either. The decision of the electricians to empty the reservoirs in summer has caused the water reserves to be already less than half, when the average in the last ten years for these dates has always been more than 60%. This is particularly worrying in southern Spain, in communities such as Andalusia, where they are only 30%, or in Murcia, 22%. This situation is also exacerbated by the lack of infrastructure necessary to bring water to all regions and to co-ordinate the nation; indeed, by the repeal by the PSOE of the transfer of the Ebro in the National Hydrological Plan. [[Applauds]] We know that companies have economic interests - it is true - which sometimes leads to neglect of other issues relating to the common good, such as the environmental impact or economic activity and the way of life of the regions, especially in rural Spain. But what are the politicians for, ladies and gentlemen? Who is directly responsible for these reservoirs? Who has allowed companies to empty them even if they can avoid it? Hydrographic confederations. [[Applauds]] And on whom do hydrographic confederations depend, Lords of Podemos and Government? Of the same public administration that, for example, authorized the emptying of reservoirs such as that of Ricobayo in Zamora or that of Valdecañas in Cáceres. And we still have to listen to the government and the minister of energy ruin and demographic hell complaining about something that depends on their own ministry. Amazing. If the Administration is not even able to properly manage this irregular use so that companies do not exploit the reservoirs to this point, how will they be able to ensure their optimal and efficient management? They apply the same hypocrisy to everything as they sink this country. They regret the unorthodox prices of energy while practicing a suicidal energy policy that attacks our energy sovereignty. They close nuclear and coal plants in Spain and then import nuclear and coal energy from countries such as France and Morocco. [[Applauds]] It would only be necessary for you, gentlemen of the Government, to talk about human rights by negotiating with terrorists. Oh, no, I'm sorry, they're already doing this! [[Applauds]] They are the face of an unbearable cynicism with a president of the government who lands in Ciudad Real in a Super Puma helicopter, which spends an average of 600 litres of kerosene at the hour, to demand a green and renewable energy consumption from citizens, who impoverish and ruin every day to supposedly combat climate change. I'm running out of adjectives for you, ladies and gentlemen. There is plenty of water for all the provinces in Spain and what we must do is to ensure that every drop reaches every corner of the country through a national hydrological plan. Not only do we have to make sure that the wifi-which comes too - but it must first reach all regions. In addition, it should be reconsidered whether with the current energy mix water should continue to be devoted to electricity generation or whether it has greater value for other uses, such as human, agricultural, tourism, etc., which have no substitution, and of course energy storage. Make it clear - and I will finish, Madam President - that in VOX we will not allow the rights of the Spaniards to be restricted by invoking their false and globalist Agenda 2030. We will promote, through the interconnection of all the basins, a green and prosperous Spain that guarantees industrial development compatible with the environmental sustainability and well-being of all Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u34	Mrs. Borrás, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u35	Sooner than later VOX will arrive with Santiago Abascal to the Government of Spain and you will be able to see it with your own eyes. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u37	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today United We can present a proposal for a law to regulate the extinction of the right to private use of water through the concession of public domain, so that the obligation to transfer it to a public power company that is intended to be of new creation is imposed. Again the socialists of this country with the aim of creating more public enterprises, more ministries - twenty-three are those who have created in this legislature - and more chiringuitos to place their own, with the sole aim of not leaving anyone behind. [[Applauds]] And this is very good for the left of this country because it is its modus operandi, but it has a contraindication for the Spaniards: a massive rise in taxes that the Spaniards are already suffering. Only this year the Social Communist Government has again raised the registration tax, the company tax, the IRPF, the pension plan tax... I don't want to think about whether we are also adding the creation of more public enterprises, such as 'Spanish energy production', which is what you would like to call it. It is true that hydropower is key to the development of the energy transition and fundamental to the implementation of the Paris Agreement that Spain signed in 2015, because it is an energy that does not emit CO2, which has a very competitive cost and serves to provide security of supply. It is therefore a fundamental energy for large companies, SMEs and domestic consumers. But, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, the creation of a public company of hydraulic power generation is not, by far, the solution to lower the price of electricity. And this is because this power generation technology, based on the old The Waters Act began to reverse the State after the seventy-five years of concession had expired and would not pass into public hands until twenty-five, thirty-five, thirty-five years, as the Government recognized not many days ago. Late, late. That is too late for it to have effect on current high light prices. What you should do, gentlemen of the United Nations We can, is use hydroelectric production as a backup reserve for renewables. To that end, if they really wanted to lower the price of electricity, rather than set up public enterprises, they should create a strategic reserve law such as that already in place, for example, in the hydrocarbon or gas sector. Ladies and gentlemen, for our parliamentary group it is still not the solution, but it is far less burdensome than creating more and more public enterprises. For my group, the solution is not only to recover concessions, but also to restore rigour, to restore legal and regulatory stability, to have the operation safe and also to have a guarantee of the maintenance of our national companies, as well as to stop intimidating the companies that have to continue to invest in them and other technologies; and, if possible, rather than the cost to the taxpayer, which could yield some benefits. For this reason, in my group we believe that the best formula is to resubmit the concession for a reasonable period of time and, in this way, we could boost the creation of reverse pumping jumps as backup energy and even encourage investment now to give options to the renewal of concessions, because today in Spain there are reverse power plants that the new managers have not been able or able to put into operation. In this way, we would help to promote the development of renewables and to make a more reliable, safer and more supply-capable electricity system. And no, don't tell us that there are many public energy companies in the European Union, because the key question is: why do you want to launch a proliferation of public energy companies in our country: production, marketing and distribution in municipalities and autonomous communities? Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, you do not want to contribute to the expansion of renewables or to lower the price of light. What they are doing is putting all kinds of obstacles to the development of renewables, photovoltaics and wind power, now also claiming environmental and landscape impacts. You, as long as it is a private initiative, oppose everything and your support for technologies is a mere excuse to fight them at the same time if it is the private initiative that develops them. Therefore, they are intimidated by new laws, by new prohibitions and by new charges to throw out the towel and gradually the public is the monopoly on energy. The only objective they have with the creation of this public enterprise would be to be able to control the hydroelectric generation so that it cannot be used according to criteria of profitability and opportunity cost. If we consent in a dark way we would be opening the door in pairs to public enterprises with marketing and distribution activities, as the proposed law itself provides, with the excuse of safeguarding the principle of separation of activities. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, we are voting against this bill, because it does not benefit the general interest or the consumers of electricity. It only benefits your communist ideary for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u38	Thank you, Mr. Herrero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u39	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Three weeks ago we discussed in this plenary a motion that raised certain ideas to lower the price of light. I know that quoting yourself is not the most elegant thing you can do, but I will repeat something I said from this very rostrum that day. To solve a problem it is important to diagnose correctly, analyze its origin and propose measures to solve it. Why am I saying this? Because, otherwise, we're either not understanding the problem, or we're not trying to solve it. In the explanatory statement, United We can indicate that there are three main issues that are the raison d'être for this law: first, that without a public undertaking - referring to what they call the electric oligopoly - the climate objectives, the objectives of the green horizon will not be achieved; second, that this public undertaking will take care to lower the bill of light, and third, that a public undertaking will ensure that no one suffers from energy poverty. It is good to set such high targets in the explanatory statement of the law; however, it is a little disappointing that then in the nine articles that make up it there is none of this. I really do not know exactly where they are going, because in these nine articles the only thing they say is that a public energy company will be set up. Point and end. They set deadlines, a legal regime, a normative framework for staff and a long range of administrative issues and how they allocate concessions to them as they expire. But that's what this law does, little more. They don't say how or why a public company is going to make the light cheaper. They do not say how or why it will make energy poverty cease to exist or how a public enterprise will make us greener. These are the things that are literally ensured in the explanatory statement of this bill, but let's analyze them one by one. We start at the end: be greener. Let us leave the electricity sector for a moment and think of a different sector, for example the car sector. I believe that we all agree that car transport must be decarbonised and, for that to happen, vehicles must be free of emissions. Is that why a national car factory is needed? No, that requires a regulatory framework, and we have given it to ourselves with the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. Registration of vehicles with emissions from 2040 is prohibited. By the way, it is the same law that also marks the rate of decarbonisation in our electricity sector. In 2030 - which is here, around the corner - 74% of the electricity generation will be renewable. That's a regulatory framework, not a public enterprise. We continue to end energy poverty. Will this be achieved by a public energy company? That is what they categorically assert in the bill. Well, I believe that in order to combat energy poverty, what is needed is to strengthen the social bonus and make it reach more and more people; something that the Government is doing, which recently doubled the amounts allocated for this social bonus. But above all, we must establish a fairer taxation, a green taxation; we must achieve more accessible energy, a more affordable energy, and we must ensure that everyone has access to it under adequate conditions, regardless of who supplies this energy. Therefore, a regulatory framework, not a public enterprise. Finally, make the light cheaper. This is the supposed origin of all this proposed law. It was recorded on 2 September in the heat of the debate on wholesale electricity prices and pose this as the great solution. Of course, the problem is that this is a twenty-year plan that I don't think is going to solve an immediate problem that we already have on top. Moreover, if this is the approach, we will have to look into the countries in our environment, because, with public energy companies in many of them, they will surely have gone better than us during this energy crisis. Let's see, let's do a little memory. The day that in Spain was reached the record of wholesale electricity prices, was on December 22, 2021, here we touch the 360 euros the megawatt hour. How was the rest of Europe that day, at that time? Well, since Germany reached 416 euros, Italy reached 437 euros and France reached 452 euros. They are three countries with very powerful public enterprises, including the almighty EDIF to which you referred in your intervention. To reduce electricity, what is needed is greater penetration of renewable energy and price stability, something that can be achieved, for example, as we are doing from the Government, by enhancing renewable auctions. Moreover, here in Spain, the rise in prices we have seen in wholesale markets has been contained so that it does not reach the consumer's receipt through a regulatory framework, not a public enterprise. I think that the very approach that they make of assigning hydraulic concessions directly to this company automatically is wrong from the start. Why? It is because the circumstances around each of these concessions - their typology, their antiquity, their usefulness - are very varied. Some might have to continue to function, yes; some may have to be converted into pumping plants; but some may have to be dismantled for purely environmental reasons to recover the rivers' channels. It may not always make sense for a centralized public enterprise to manage them. Perhaps the best model of generation is distributed generation and local energy communities can exploit and manage these concessions. But all this is excluded in their approach. We agree that it is necessary to create a road map that sets out the guidelines to follow as these concessions expire. Undoubtedly the hydraulic public domain must be at the service of citizens, of all citizens, at the service of the country, at the service of the ecological transition and the energy transition, but I do not think it serves the only size that you pose with this proposed law. Each case is particular and it is better to have the necessary and adequate flexibility to be able to study them individually. This proposed law creates a corset that stifles the possibilities and makes no sense to achieve the objectives it claims to pursue. Unless, of course, the only objective pursued is the creation of a public energy company as an end and not as a means, and then it will be seen. We in the Socialist Group believe that there is another way to go further in the energy transition and we will vote against the consideration, because we think that things can be done much better. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, REFORMING ORGANICAL LAW 2/1982, 12 MAY, THE COURT OF ACCOUNTS AND THE COURT OF AUDITORS 7/1988, 5 APRIL, OPERATION OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS. [[File number 122/000197]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u41	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal for a law of the Plural Parliamentary Group amending Organic Law 2/1982 of 12 May, the Court of Auditors and Act 7/1988 of 5 April, on the operation of the Court of Auditors. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u42	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed law we present objectively implies the improvement of an organ of the institutional system of the State whose decisions directly affect tens of hundreds of citizens with serious consequences for their families. It is certainly not we who have the most sense of state than we are in this Chamber - at least the sense of Spanish state - but what we do have is a sense of democratic responsibility that forces us to question - and not only that, but also to be propository - each and every democratic and rule of law deficiency that comes before us. We question the impossibility of discussing the monarchical institution and its outbursts. We are alarmed by the lack of independence, the partiality and politicization of the Spanish high judiciary, which, among other things, allows Members to withdraw minutes; we recall the cases of comrades Alberto Rodríguez and Pau Juvillà. And not only that, but even this high judiciary is allowed to threaten to prosecute the members of the tables who do not bow to their orders. We wonder, on the other hand, how long we will have to endure the abuse by the Government of the decree-law or the suspension of autonomous laws. We question the role played by the Constitutional Court as a defender of political debate or its drift as a body that fines and also pursues members of the bureaux of parliaments. And we also question the role that the Bureau of this Parliament, the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, has taken on itself; a role of the constitutional preventive court, preventing the processing of parliamentary initiatives on the grounds that they alone see palm unconstitutionalities. For all these institutional dysfunctions there are solutions and I think it is our duty to propose them; for something we are in Parliament. Precisely the Court of Auditors is one of the most dysfunctional constitutional bodies. We believe that it should be subject to comprehensive legislative reform and to European bodies for the control of public accounts; a comprehensive reform that, among other things, should establish mechanisms that prevent undue interference with the legitimate political action of the governments of the Autonomous Communities - for example, in the legitimate external action of the Government of Catalonia - and that respect the autonomous powers, without therefore imposing their action on the audit bodies of the Autonomous Communities. This comprehensive reform should also ensure the independence, objectivity and impartiality of the accounting officers and condition their appointment to exceed strict criteria of technical competence in order to avoid the shameful spectacle of constitutional fraud that we experienced last autumn, when the majority here itself ratified names agreed by the plumbers of the PP and the Moncloa. However, in the interests of preserving the general interest and preventing an intensification of the reputational crisis in which it is immersed, the Court of Auditors must be prevented from continuing to put at risk the fundamental rights of citizens, who are unable, in the exercise of effective judicial protection, to appeal their acts and judgments to the judiciary. Therefore, what we are proposing today is a proposal for minimums which we believe that any political force concerned with democracy, the division of powers and the rule of law should assume and which aims simply to enable the Court of Auditors' decisions of a jurisdictional nature to be subject to a full review at second instance by a genuine court, a full review which the current regime does not allow, since it only provides for the possibility of appeal to the Supreme Court in cases of formalistic cassation and review, a way that closes the possibility of assessing all the extremes of the question of litigation. This full and substantive review proposes that an appeal to the appropriate judicial and administrative body be articulated, and the proposal also provides for the retention of part of the jurisdictional functions and the full control functions. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be borne in mind that the attribution of a jurisdictional function to a body such as the Court of Auditors itself is already unusual in comparative law, and what is unheard of is that it is exercised exclusively and fully by a body external to the judiciary, whose members are not only not part of the judiciary, but they do not even have to have legal training. The Constitution welcomed the possibility of accounting jurisdiction not on the basis of arguments of systematic coherence or division of powers, but only to give continuity to a special and private jurisdiction exercised historically by real delegation and with a clear anti-democratic bias, even absolutist and colonial. The accounting prosecution questions the basic principles of the judicial power of independence, exclusive exercise of jurisdictional power and judicial unity contained in article 117 of the Constitution, since the Court of Auditors is not organically incardinated in the judicial power, its members are not judges or magistrates, they do not have to be, and not even, as we said before, they must have any legal training. Let us remember that, according to the Constitution itself, the Court of Auditors depends on the General Courts and exercises its functions by delegation from them. In addition, it is an annual body accountable to these General Courts, to which its members must, of course, be held to disciplinary responsibility. The question is, what independence do these accountants have? What independence does the Court of Auditors have? In view of this scenario, we are not surprised that the Government has excluded the jurisdictional activity of the Court of Auditors from the annual reports it sends to the European institutions for the control of the Spanish justice system, GRECO Group, and all this leaving aside the question that the Court of Auditors concentrates on a single body, in strange mixture, the phase of control of accounts, materially administrative, and the judicial phase of accounting prosecution, which includes the investigation of the procedures for return by scope attributed to officials of the body, a first instance attributed to the advisers of accounts and a second instance attributed to the chambers. Therefore, from a domestic law perspective, what is involved with this proposed law is to bring this body into line with the basic constitutional principles of the rule of law and the division of powers and subject the performance of these powers to judicial control. The current wording is not only contrary to the principle of the independence of the judiciary and its corollaries of exclusivity in the exercise of jurisdictional power, judicial unity and prohibition of courts of emergency, but above all contradicts the principle of subjection of public authorities to the law, with the consequent submission of their actions to judicial control and the effectiveness of effective judicial protection, which prohibits the existence of areas of activity immune to real, full and substantive judicial control. Actually. We are faced with a genuine special jurisdiction in the hands of the Court of Auditors and, from the perspective of international and European law, this proposal for a law aims to bring the Court of Auditors into line with the standards established by the Council of Europe through the GRECO Group of Judicial Independence to avoid corruption, which is supported by the case law of both the European Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Union in its interpretation of the right to a fair trial. This right to a fair trial contained in article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights includes both the right of access to jurisdiction and the right to an independent court, and European jurisprudence prohibits both special jurisdictions outside the judiciary, even more so if they are made up of legacies in law, and courts under political authority. Let us remember that The Economist has degraded Spain to the category of defective democracy precisely because of political interference in the judiciary. The parties here expressing such concern about the system of appointments of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, which does not even issue judgements, for consistency should be in favour of the decisions of a body such as the Court of Auditors being able to be appealed to ordinary jurisdiction at least. [[The Lord]] In short, the same prosecutor, Mr Torres, who is currently a member of the Court of Auditors, acknowledged in his previous appearance in the Appointments Committee that the legal regime of the Court of Auditors in its judicial role has become obsolete and that it is up to the legislator to update it; and I add that it is competence and duty. The failure to comply with European standards of judicial independence, the right of access to jurisdiction and the prevention of corruption, innumerable judgments of both the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union, poses a real risk that must be avoided and before which, ladies and gentlemen, what we are presenting here is a proposal for minimums: to allow a full judicial review of the Court of Auditors' prosecution activity, its judgments, orders and rulings. In Recommendation 2017/1520, on the rule of law, the European Commission expressed concern about the adoption in Poland of legislation allowing the Legislature and the Executive to intervene in the appointment and termination of judicial officials. The European Court of Justice has recently decided that the European Commission can condition the receipt of economic funds to the States on the basis of respect for the principle of the rule of law which they express, because, in the end, it is an irrevocable value on which the European Union is based. The question we are asking ourselves is whether you are going to vote in favour of connecting with Europe or whether you prefer to remain disconnected, whether you prefer to connect with the Luxembourg model, with the Strasbourg model, or whether you prefer to identify with the Warsaw model, with the Budapest model. We know that the extreme right and the extreme right prefer Warsaw and Budapest; we saw it a few weeks ago with the visit of leaders of the extreme right of Europe. We call for the remaining political forces to connect with Europe, the European Union, the European Commission, the Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. We call for them to connect with the rule of law and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u43	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u44	Thank you, President. This is not exactly the subject we are dealing with today, but I would like to start by reminding you that the Court of Auditors is one of the most endogamous institutions of the 78's regime. The newspaper El País in 2014 reported that out of the seven hundred people who work in the Court of Auditors, some 100 have relatives in it, that is, 14% of the people who work in the Court of Auditors have relatives in it. It may be thought that an agency that is so unbiased in the distribution of jobs will also be very unbiased in the distribution of justice. For example, the thirty-four persons prosecuted, investigated by the external action of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, a case already being investigated by two bodies: the same Court of Auditors and the Court of Justice number 13 of Barcelona. Thus, for the same reasons, the same persons are being investigated by two bodies and have applied for two different and very large bonds, 5 400 000 the Court of Auditors and 6 million the Court of Justice number 13. A number of anomalies lead us to think that, although little known, this case against the external action of the Generalitat of Catalonia is one of the most arbitrary and irregular repressive cases of all those that have occurred against Catalan independence. Firstly, the Court of Auditors, as the rapporteur has said, decides which activities of the external action of the Generalitat were unconstitutional and which were not, and the Court of Auditors does not have the capacity to do so. In fact, the external action of the Generalitat in the period under investigation, from 2011 to 2017, did not receive any notice of its unconstitutionality, and yet the Court of Auditors decides which of these activities are unconstitutional. I give you an example, a trip by the President of the Generalitat in the summer of 2014 to the United States. Most visits were of a commercial, cultural, etc. nature, but he pays attention to the media, they ask him about the consultation, and at that time she was summoned for the month of November of the same year 2014, and President Mas gives a reply regarding that consultation, which is sufficient reason for the Court of Auditors to consider that the overall cost of that trip, 75 613 euros, is considered action in favor of the referendum and therefore becomes punishable. The second anomaly of the Court of Auditors is the independence of its members. That is a fairly shared fact in the whole judicial power, but some examples are clamorous. In the Court of Auditors you will know that there is the brother of former President Aznar or an ex-minister also of the People's Party, Mrs Mariscal de Gante, who, by the way, to realize this lack of impartiality, in 2019 revoked a judgment against the former mayor of Madrid, Mrs Ana Botella, of her own party and, at the time, sister-in-law of another member of the Court of Auditors, and revoked the judgment for having irregularly sold 5300 properties to vulture funds. And this lack of impartiality is also seen in this case as counting against the external action of the Generalitat, since the origin of this case is the Joint Congress-Senate Committee of the Court of Auditors, which approves a resolution for the Court of Auditors to investigate the external action of the Generalitat, and, therefore, what we have is the People's Party asking people appointed by the People's Party to investigate political opponents of the People's Party. And that's anything but impartial. By the way, it should also be remembered that the resolution was presented by the PP but was also voted by the PSOE, because in the judicialization of the Catalan independence process the responsibilities are not the same but they are quite distributed. The third anomaly of the Court of Auditors - it has also been said by Mr Pagès, who presented the initiative - is the lack of competence of its members. They are people who are not judges or judges, and yet they are being prosecuted. And the fourth anomaly, the warranties. To begin, for example, in this case of the external action of the Generalitat, five hundred pages of the report were given to be read in three hours and ten minutes in order to be able to make allegations. There are a number of guarantees, the most important of which has also been put forward, and it is the lack of capacity to appeal to the judgments of this body. The report of the case against the external action of the Generalitat came with competing votes and a particular vote, that of Mrs Maria Dolores Genaro, whom I recommend to all of you to read because it is precisely in these anomalies, in these irregularities, in this lack of impartiality in a process led by the Court of Auditors. In conclusion, they have used all the resources to pursue independence, they have used provincial courts, higher courts, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the National Court, the electoral boards even and also, as we recall today, the Court of Auditors. They get to spend very bad time, in an undemocratic way, on political opponents; they make them go through painful processes, which are so for the people prosecuted and also for their family environment and their friends and friends, but they have not managed to stop us and they are not going to get it. To the millionaire bonds imposed by the Court of Auditors in the case that I have told you also opposed millionaire donations to the Solidarity Box, because you face a people eager to move forward. We will certainly not convince you that independence is the best thing for our people, but you will not convince us that we live in a full democracy as long as you are using institutions like the Court of Auditors to pursue political opponents in such an irregular way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u46	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today there is a curious fact in this House, and it is that the Member Pagès, who is part of an independentist formation, brings to this House a proposal which, if approved, will improve the European guarantees and standards of an institution such as the Court of Auditors, which does not meet them today, as has been pointed out by the two spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the floor. The reality is that on numerous occasions a mantra is repeated when the independenceist formations bring to this House matters to denounce situations of injustice, abuse or irregularity, and it is that the independenceists discredit the image of Spain, when today what we see is a proposal precisely to improve an irregular situation. Today we are dealing with this matter of the Court of Auditors, and if we review the different articles in the recent hemerotec of both the press and analysts or the academy about this body, we find several points that are often coincident in the criticism of this obsolete institution. In some cases, it is said to be an opaque, unknown and dysfunctional institution, and it is also often pointed out, as Mr Botran has already mentioned, the politicization or plugging of family sagas in that court, which clashes with other institutions, where there is no such level of plugging. And in the same way, the politicization of its advisers, elected by the General Courts. And with regard to the issues it deals with, we see that, in general, it has been quite effective in combating what comes to be called small corruption or small dysfunctions in small municipal bodies, although in large cases of alleged corruption it has looked elsewhere. And in this politicization we also see the obsession with cases that have had an important media presence in recent years, such as the Catalonian trial, on which this court joined the festival of repression in that vengeful and exemplary spirit and persecuted the independence leaders, also committing a fact such as the interference in matters outside their jurisdiction, such as the external action of an autonomous government, perfectly legal and legitimate, as has been recognized even by the Constitutional Court. Among these dysfunctions, these errors, these criticisms that are made not only by independent parties, but by any means of communication published and issued from Madrid, we see that there is the dysfunction in its jurisdictional function, which, as has already been pointed out, clashs head-on with the separation of powers and article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which says that everyone has the right to a fair trial, in which the court is independent and impartial. Here we have something that clashs with that principle because we have some gentlemen and ladies who are not judges and have been elected by the General Courts. Someone may say that this is also the case in the Constitutional Court, but we start from a completely different system and nature, and more in view of this exotic accounting jurisdiction, which has a greater impact on people and in its nature comes closer to what comes to be ordinary jurisdiction but without being so. And what's going on? When an appeal is made by one of those advisers because we do not like it, we have the option of going to the next room, in which they are also fellow advisors of that person, and only in some cases assessed can we resort to ordinary jurisdiction through the contentious-administrative in the Supreme Court, so we are in shock at what are European standards, and at what, by the way, there is already a consolidated doctrine. Thus, we can take into account the judgment of the Saquetti Iglesias case against Spain, with the expansive concept of the need to guarantee the double degree of judicial review in case of administrative sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen, this body does not meet European standards. Therefore, in the face of this obsolete, defective legislation and, as I say, contrary to European doctrine, Mr Pagès has brought a proposal which, if adopted, would improve the current legislation, and that is why we voted in a positive way. It is true that we and we are independentists, but always and everywhere we aspire to live in a more dignified State and, if this proposal is approved, it would be positive both for the citizenship of this State and also for the State itself, and that would result in a more democratic State that complies with the law in European terms, so that sometimes someone such as GRECO or even a ranking once mentioned as that of The Economist does not come to lower his score. With this proposal they have the opportunity to move forward and improve legislation that is clearly obsolete and defective. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u47	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJPNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u48	Thank you very much, President. Antoni Bayona reminded us a few months ago from a press gallery the different models of control of accounts in our environment and how in Spain we opted in article 136.2 of the Constitution, by regulating this institution, by the judicial model or Napoleonic model, in front of the Anglo-Saxon model or Westminster model. In the latter, in the Anglo-Saxon, the Court of Auditors exercises financial control functions only from the point of view of expenditure efficiency and in accordance with audit criteria, while in the judicial model an audit function is added to this function of financial control from the perspective of legality, i.e. a jurisdictional function which makes it possible to demand liability for the return of public funds when, in its management, an economic impairment is caused by fraud, guilt or gross negligence as a result of actions or omissions contrary to the budgetary rules of accounting, contracting or, in general, any other relevant to the financial economic sector. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, the attribution of jurisdiction to the Court of Auditors in Article 136.2 of the Constitution does not cease to be a chilling exception or one that would aggravate the provisions of Article 117, when it states in its various paragraphs that the exercise of jurisdiction is exclusively and in all kinds of proceedings for courts and tribunals composed of judges and career judges and also establishes the principle, as has already been pointed out, of jurisdictional unity. However, this exception, which was said to be hilarious, to article 136.2 of the Constitution acquires incompatibility dyes when the Organic Law 2/1982 of the Court of Auditors develops this constitutional requirement and, going beyond the Constitution itself, establishes in its article 17 that the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors is exclusive and full and in its article 30 that its members are elected by the Courts, at the rate of six members by each Chamber. For its part, Law 7/1988, on the Functioning of the Court of Auditors, determines in its article 52.2 that its decisions may be appealed only in cassation and review by the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court and for reasons determined by law, which, as you know, are presumed to be assessed and specific grounds, and ultimately not a full review. Ladies and gentlemen, this triple circumstance in relation to the Court of Auditors: full and exclusive jurisdiction exercised by members elected by the Courts and not the possibility of full review by the Supreme is what brings us to debate the initiative of Junts per Catalunya, circumstances that we are told - and we share - are badly sympathised - as we have already said - not only with the constitutional regulation of the judiciary, the judicial function and the judicial career, but also with the European Charter of Human Rights and its jurisprudence, which demands that the cases affecting citizens be tried by courts that offer guarantees of independence and impartiality, and that they should be objectively assessed, this is, creating an appearance of confidence that the judicial body meets the criteria of independence and impartiality, which is difficult in our view, in an entity with exclusive and full accounting jurisdiction and whose members are designated between persons not belonging to the judicial career and by a method and a purely political body, such as the two Chambers of these General Courts. From this anomalous circumstance we believe that the legal system is fully aware and wants to solve it through the Civil Prosecution Act when in its article 37.2 of a So that it violates the nature of the things it establishes that when the Court of Auditors exercises its jurisdictional functions it will be understood to be integrated into the administrative-contentious jurisdiction. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, and in our view, the solution to this problem proposed by the initiative we are debating is reasonable, namely that the Court of Auditors' accounting jurisdiction ceases to be full and exclusive, and that is why its decisions can be reviewed in second instance, by the Supreme Court's Dispute-Administrative Chamber, and not as hitherto, only through special appeals for cassation and review. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, seems to us to be a very undisturbing solution to the very institutionality of the Court of Auditors; it is undisturbing with regard to the existing system of appointment and origin of its members, and it is undisturbing with regard to its jurisdictional functions, since it continues to retain its own jurisdiction, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 136.2 of the Constitution, but no longer on a full and exclusive basis, so that the second instance falls to the Supreme Court, thus fully complying with the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights so that the right to a fair and equitable trial referred to in Article 6 of the Charter can be discussed. That is, the right to a court with an objective appearance of impartiality and independence and the right of access to jurisdiction in respect of those decisions of the public authorities in which that appearance is not complied with, either because its members do not belong to the judicial career, or because they are directly elected by a political power and by political methods, or by all of them. Finally - and it has ended - and as an obiter dict on the matter under discussion, I would like to point out that, although the accounting jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors had not acquired a level of debate which today, as a result of its decisions surrounding the so-called procedure, we must point out that, in our view, its decisions in this area do not share them. The promotion abroad of a process for independence with public resources, by public authorities with competence in external action, with electoral programmes in this regard and invested with these programmes, are nothing but a legitimate project, not incompatible with a Constitution that is not militant and does not require accession, as the Constitutional Court itself has stated. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u49	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Junts per Catalunya today presents a bill that surprises us because it seems that this party - and it has been said - stands as a defender no less than the Spanish Constitution. But it is a surprise that, of course, lasts very little; it lasts just until we remember who you are, what you intend and what your real interests are here. Because you are not here to defend the Spanish Constitution, you are not even to defend the law as you say in your proposal; you have only one objective, which is to continue on your way to rid those convicted of the process of returning the embezzled money and continue to protect those convicted of very serious crimes, even though they have been pardoned, which supposes that they are forgiven, but not, of course, that we forget what they did. Mr Pagès, when you appeal - as Mr Botran has also done - to the suffering of your family members, the first thing you should remember is that you might have told that relative that what you should have done was not put your hand in the box. You play the role of the Court of Auditors in violating the law of the European Union and, to that end, you start from a false premise that the Court of Auditors is governed in Spain by principles contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights as regards the separation of constitutional powers, judicial control of administrative acts or judicial independence. It is his party which intends to give us lessons of separation of powers; a party which in its day intended that the Government of a hypothetical and fantastic Catalan republic could appoint the judges of its Supreme Court to its finger. You talk about the primacy of the European conventions, you who have flown all the conventions in Europe with an illegal declaration of independence, which was going to make that Catalan republic recognized by all as an independent country. You even speak of the Court of Auditors as an institution anchored in the nineteenth century that exercises - and I quote textually - a special and private jurisdiction by real delegation, of clear absolutist and colonial bias, whose objective was really to respond to the pressures of the employees and members of the Court of Auditors who saw their jobs endangered. This is what your explanatory statement says, but all this is just a joke coming from a party that, every two by three, tells us the great operetta that you have 132 presidents of the Generalitat since 1359, because Catalonia is older than Spain in seven hundred years. If you want us to play this, it's very easy. The Court of Auditors sinks its roots in the departures of Alfonso X the Wise, there in the middle of the thirteenth century, a hundred years - even - before Berenguer de Cruïlles, in case it really is what you want to play. The Court of Auditors already existed formally in the 15th century, moreover, for the control by the Courts of the funds raised by the first Austrias. You give them to the Republicans, but you're really austracists. It is an institution that already appears, as it exists today, in the Constitution of 1812 and, likewise, also appears in the Republican Constitution of 1931, and you call it a monarchic and Francoist institution. Moreover, the Court of Auditors of the Second Republic was governed by the Organic Law of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of 1934, which established that it was a body appointed by Parliament with special and private jurisdiction for the economic control of the State, the autonomous regions and the municipalities and whose members were not judges, but accountants, i.e. experts in accounting. However, you repeat that this is a monarchical and Francoist institution, and it turns out that, in its present version, the Court of Auditors follows precisely the model of the 1931 Constitution and its 1934 law. If they read a little bit of history, but of the truth and not of the one manipulated by some of their historians on pay, they would know that article 136 of the present Constitution is precisely a reproduction of what had been envisaged for the Court of Auditors of the Second Republic, as well as that its development laws - Organic Law 2/1982 and Law 7/1988 - maintain that double operating scheme, both for the supervisory function and for the accounting prosecution function. If they read even some law, they would know that this system follows the so-called Latin model, which is the same that is followed in countries in our environment such as France, Italy, Belgium, Greece or Portugal. It is therefore uncertain that our model has no comparison with other countries, it is just the opposite. What you need is simply to know the law of the European Union, to know the law of the countries that are part of the European Union and also to know the constitutional law of your country, of Spain. You go to these systems only when you are interested and, in this case, only to attack the Spanish institutions as anti-democratic. The jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors derives from the Constitution itself and article 136 thereof. Its action must also comply precisely with article 24 of the Constitution itself, and this is so by pure legal-constitutional tradition, whose precedent - as I say - is that of the Constitution of 1931 and its law of 1934. The Constitutional Court, which you constantly skip, has made clear that prosecutorial role of the Court of Auditors. That is why I recommend that you read the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 215/2000, which says that the fact that the prosecution function is exclusive to the Court of Auditors is precisely the guarantee of judicial unity and that that prosecution function makes the Court of Auditors a true jurisdiction, which has been called the contentious-accounting jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts, the current system of operation of the Spanish Court of Auditors is absolutely respectful of the separation of powers, with the independence of the judiciary, and it is so despite the attempts of bipartisanism to use this body as another piece in its exchange of chromosomes. That is today the great problem of the institution, the discrediting of it by the People's Party and the Socialist Party with the invaluable help of Podemos when the posts of councillor are shamefully distributed. The same discredit that was given for the abandonment of its responsibility for the State Attorney's Office, which has renounced to claim as part almost a total of 10 million euros diverted for illegal purposes by 34 former senior officials of the Generalitat - including Mr. Plus, Mr. Puigdemont and Mr. Junqueras - for irregularities with public funds by the Catalan embassies, the Diplomat and the illegal referendum of 2017. Moreover, it is sad to note that the Court of Auditors itself, as a constitutional body, has been told by the Government, in carrying out its functions, that it laid stones on the road to concord. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that I have the feeling that the Junts Members do not only ignore the constitutional powers of a body such as the Court of Auditors but, more importantly, that access to jurisdiction is guaranteed precisely because the Court of Auditors is the full and supreme judicial body in the area of accounting prosecution. With your proposal you close your eyes to reality; a reality that is embodied in the Constitution and the law, even though today you say that it is what you want to protect and defend. I doubt how long you've had your eyes closed, but, of course, I think your blindness is so far away that it's even beyond that first president of the 14th century. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u51	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u52	Thank you, President. We are debating today, on the proposal of the compañeras of Junts per Catalunya, a proposal for a law reforming the Organic Law of the Court of Auditors and also of the Law of Operation of the Court of Auditors, and we are putting forward our vote in favour of its consideration and we hope that the majority of this House will do the same. Few institutions in the Spanish State need reform more urgently than the Court of Auditors. In general, we share the prognosis that the proposed law makes of the dysfunctionalities of those suffering from accounting prosecution in the Spanish State. Indeed, the accounting prosecution by the Court of Auditors if it is characterized by something is due to its opacity and lack of procedural guarantees; some features that allow us to state that the Court acts arbitrarily, capriciously or - as the Republicans would say - the Court of Auditors dominates. And it is that for republicanism there is nothing more harmful to freedom than domination, that is, that the arbitrary interference power of one agent over the other is exercised by one individual or by public authorities. Arbitrariness is a manifestation of domination, the antagonist of republican freedom and is a defining note of the Court of Auditors' action, at least for a few years. No one escapes what the court does. In our view, there are two of them: the first, to cover up the shames of the 1978 regime; the second, to provide accounting for repression. Firstly, when we say that the Court of Auditors has been covering up the shame of the 1978 regime for years, we mean that its main reaction to the corruptions of state, autonomous or local governments has not been the prosecution, but the cover-up. The court has been absolutely inhibited from the main functions given to it by article 12, which is to record any violations, abuses or irregular practices it has observed, indicating the responsibility for which it considers to have been incurred, and the measures to be required. There is no need to be an independentist to appreciate that the court has completely disregarded this function. If not, how much did criminal José María Aznar pay for the expense of sending troops to an illegal war? How much has been returned from the more than five billion paid in rescuing the failed Madrid motorways that were not precisely carried out in the public interest, but at a time when the main construction companies were hit or bribed, among which, of course, Florentino Pérez himself, who cost us another five billion euros for the Castor project? Or how much will Ayuso pay for the stolen money in buying masks while people died to enrich their brother? And meanwhile, the 'allusers' defending corruption on a sunny Sunday morning. And there's still someone wondering why we're independents? [[Applauds]] I was hoping I could tell Mr. Married this, but he must be somewhere, hiding from his own or preparing his way out by foot. However, when a democratic government such as that of the Generalitat de Catalunya arrives that implements a popular mandate won at the polls, which is what hurts them the most, the role of the Court of Auditors, repression, appears. The Court has been and is the economic arm of the persecution of political dissent in the Spanish State. As we have been insisting for a long time, more than a Court of Auditors is a court of adjustment of accounts, and of course it is not something new for us: Esquerra Republicana has already paid more than EUR 2 million in bail in proceedings before the Court of Auditors for the holding of a referendum on 1 October 2017. And it is that the State uses all the resources it has at its disposal to pursue the independenceists in the context of the general cause. In recent years, we have seen how State apparatuses have denounced, persecuted, detained and even imprisoned dozens of independenceists for simply being independent, with the aim of discouraging citizens from mobilizing and supporting the right to self-determination; an attack from within the system to combat a legitimate, democratic and peaceful political project. The entry on the scene of the Court of Auditors is only one more piece of the repression gear, and if this proposal for a law can contribute to the democratization of the Court and to compliance with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, it is welcome, because it should be remembered that the Court of Auditors generates a great lack of defence, since the parties cannot intervene for the short term and the guarantees imposed on them on an absolutely confiscatory basis. Finally, we are missing some more technical aspects, such as the modification of the remedies provided for in section 48 of the Operating Act, which more than resources are a joke of bad taste. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u53	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u54	President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the first plenary session since last Thursday we learned of the judicial record of the harassment of the family of Irene Montero and Pablo Iglesias. That is why we wanted to start by expressing our solidarity, not everything goes in politics. [[Applauds]] Solidarity that we extend to Mrs Ayuso, because it seems that this morning her nephews have also suffered harassment in school. Today we are talking about corruption, about the Court of Auditors, about whether or not to reform. We think so for four reasons. First, because it is a democratic anomaly anchored in the nineteenth century, opaque, unmatched in Europe. Second, because it is a nest of plugging and nepotism; of the seven hundred workers, do you know how many there are with family ties to high offices? There's a hundred. We talked a lot about Ayuso's brother, but there was another brother, that of Mr Aznar, who filed - he and others - the case against Ana Botella: that is nepotism. Thirdly, it is an instrument at the service of the lawfare, of the judicial war; it has already been said, rather than controlling all parties, what they do is block the accounts of the People's Party and settle accounts with their opponents. Margarita Mariscal de Gante, minister with Aznar, has made a crusade against independence, but has not seen the biggest plot of corruption that has existed in Spain, has seen nothing of the irregular financing of his party. Why? Because it's part of the plot. Do you remember Ubaldo Nieto? Ubaldo Nieto was the president of that court that appeared in the papers of Bárcenas. I mean, whoever was monitoring the People's Party accounts was a donor to his B-box. How are you going to control box B someone who's part of it? It's a hairdo. And fourthly, because it is an attack on the separation of powers and effective judicial guardianship, because here we are talking not about judges doing politicians, as they do in the Supreme, here we are talking about politicians directly doing judges, politicians whose decisions cannot be reviewed by genuine judges, and who, in fact, do not need or need to be jurists. That may be anything, but it's not a court. A court consisting of illiterates in law is not a court, neither here nor in the People's Republic of China. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this proposal, because it is a minimum step. Congratulations to Mr Pagès for the work he's done. To talk about corruption today and the Court of Auditors is to talk about the shortcomings in Spain, the control mechanisms, the accountability mechanisms. And something fails when the opposition cannot do its job and even expels a deputy for asking about the mask contract; something fails when internal controls are not turned on; something fails, in that case, when yesterday it was prevented from setting up a commission of inquiry, or when it is necessary to resort to detectives to know what is going on, or journalists cannot access the content of that contract; something fails when, finally, an investigation is initiated and filed without any justification. That has to do with the nepotism of the Court of Auditors, also with the nepotism, in general, of the People's Party. Family is the important thing. Don Corleone did not say it, Mrs Ayuso said it, and that is why the law of silence was imposed. The family is so important that Mrs. Ayuso's brother in the middle of the pandemic has been able to do business at the expense of public money and at the expense of the human drama of the pandemic. As we all went out at eight in the afternoon to applaud our health workers, the nurses, Mrs Ayuso's brother went out to applaud the taxpayers of Madrid, because that allowed him to be a commissioner. Who is Mr. Tomás Ayuso? We don't know anything about him. We don't know what he's doing. We know that you have obtained nineteen finger contracts valued at EUR 113,000. That is not a case of overcoming, as some on the right will say, that is nepotism; it is four contracts on average per year. And that has to do with the Court of Auditors, with corruption, with what is happening today with the case, precisely, of the contract, that contract in which they sold the masks 73% more expensive than those of another supplier on the same day. That is why it is bad news for the fight against corruption to know that Mr. Married is going to resign. Mr. Married is not going to resign for corruption, Mr. Married is going to resign for initiating an investigation of corruption in his party. That sends a bad message: it seems that in the People's Party no one can send if they question corruption as a form of government. That has to do with corruption, which is the DNA of the People's Party. Married does not resign for corrupt, resigns for doing, even if it is late and bad, an internal investigation. That, as I say to you, is bad news for democracy and also for the voters of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That is why today the People's Party is going to vote against this proposal, just as it voted against setting up a transparency and anti-fraud office in Madrid, like the one in Barcelona. Because they are not interested in public expenditure controls or accountability mechanisms, because they are the ones with the headquarters paid for in black money, they are those of the three hundred accused or convicted of corruption and because they have been described as a criminal organization by the courts and the police, with six ministers and eight convicted autonomous presidents. That's why they're going to vote no today. To us, the truth is, it seems to us that this is the underlying reason, just as they keep the government of the Judiciary kidnapped: 1176 days ago today. One last piece of advice, instead of fighting to see who is the party leader, I would advise you to dissolve, do as the Catalan right hand and make a new game. Until you do that, we hope that the democratic control of the ballot boxes will put you in your place. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u55	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a proposal for a law amending two laws affecting the Court of Auditors: Law 2/1982 and Law 7/1988. Interestingly, after almost forty years in force of the first law and thirty-five years in force of the second, Junts per Catalunya now realize the need to reform both laws and argue, as they indicate in the statement of reasons for the proposed law, that the court maintains certain functions due to the pressures that existed from the employees and members of the Court of Accounts Francois; a Court of Accounts whose origins date back to the Courts of Valladolid of 1351, where some real offices that are given the name of accountants already appear. And they realize precisely when the Court of Auditors rejected the endorsements with which the Government of the Generality intended to face the payment of the 5.4 million euros that were destined for the international promotion of the independence referendum and the independence process of Catalonia. Mention is made of the intention to bring the legal configuration of the Court of Auditors closer to the basic constitutional principles of the rule of law, which are the division of public authorities and the subjection of their actions to judicial control. Curious complaint comes from a political party that continuously demonstrates that it does not respect the Constitution, that it does not respect court decisions and that it does not respect the independence of justice. [[Applauds]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group three are the main points to analyze. The first, any reform must be aimed at promoting the independence and impartiality of the functioning of the Court of Auditors, and that is to revise the criteria for appointing advisers. I would like to mention in this respect the review carried out in 2015 by the European Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors of Portugal. In the report issued by the two bodies, it was recommended that the procedures for the appointment of accounting officers be reviewed and, in particular, that objective criteria be defined and that conditions for access to the post be clarified in greater detail. Pure common sense. Those of us who have experience in auditing know that the requirement of independence is key within the framework of ethical principles and professional rules that are reflected both in the Audit Act and its regulations and in international auditing standards. Second. This proposal for a law is intended to transfer the instruction of the procedures for reinstatement by the scope of the training delegates, who are officials, to the directors of accounts. It is undeniable that, in view of the procedure for appointing advisers, this proposal does not strengthen the necessary independence in education and is a failure to achieve efficiency. The professionalisation of the staff of the Court of Auditors must be strengthened, staff who, according to the Court of Auditors' report, had a high degree of commitment and technical competence appropriate to their main functions. Third. It introduces the possibility of delegating to the autonomous supervisory bodies the instruction of the jurisdictional procedures for the prosecution of the accounting liability of those in charge of managing the flow or public effects. In VOX, we believe that what needs to be done with the external control bodies of the Autonomous Communities is to abolish them and that the work should be carried out by the Court of Auditors. [[applause]] Because it is common sense to realise that centralisation of control bodies eliminates duplication, facilitates efficiency, contributes to impartiality, saves costs and fosters unity of approach. We are talking about duplication and costs, ladies and gentlemen. The autonomous state has led to the creation of twelve external control bodies, apart from the Court of Auditors, which cost the Spanish around 79 million euros a year, with budgets ranging from 12.9 million euros, of the Union of Accounts of Catalonia, by the way, the most expensive, to 3.2 million Navarra, to the 5.1 million euros that the Council of Accounts of Castile and León costs. We speak of independence and impartiality, requirements that are not reinforced when bodies appointed by the autonomous community itself control matters of the same community. We are talking about efficiency and unity of approach, characteristics that do not currently occur within the framework of the proliferation of external control bodies. Rather the opposite, lack of unity of approach, is what the Court of Auditors itself stated in its report on the autonomous public sector of the year 2018, talking about the normative inequality between the territories regarding the deadlines for accountability to the court and the supervisory bodies. And lack of efficiency, which is evident when you turn your back on the best practices of the market. And it is that the best audit practices, and I have been able to verify it in my twenty-nine years of professional experience, is that large companies have centralized their internal audit departments and internal enforcement. It is truly inconceivable that we should not learn from best practices, even more so given that we are talking about the control of public funds. [[Applauds]] I conclude by recalling that seeking impartiality is common sense, that seeking efficiency and professionalism is common sense, that avoiding politicization is common sense, that avoiding duplication is common sense, and that VOX is pure common sense. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u57	Thank you. For the People's Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm not gonna waste a minute on disqualifications, Mr. Asens. I will only tell you that anyone who disqualifies and insults permanently never offends, and you are the only one who knows how to do it in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pagès, you are putting forward an initiative which has been welcomed by all the independence groups. The Court of Auditors is a wall of containment of anyone who commits crime, gives coups d'état, is seditious, and simply puts them in place. You've got it right, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] It is true that you have found in this initiative the protection of the President of the Government, when he said that the Court of Auditors - in a rather rude statement, because it is soft - was an administrative body and not a jurisdictional body. Look, I'm gonna try to explain and disassemble each of the nonsense - it's not mistakes, it's nonsense - that you've said. It seemed to me that the jurisdictional function was the worst that the Court of Auditors had. Explain to me why the Basque Chamber of Auditors and the Catalan Union of Auditors, when they passed their laws, wanted to have the jurisdictional function, and it was the Court of Auditors that brought him down. [[Mr Pagès i Massó makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mr. Pagès. Article 12 of the Union of Accounts wanted the jurisdictional function, and it fell. Read the sentence; then I'll pass it to you so you don't make a fool of yourself. And I'm going on. You said that this is an anachronistic and that it is not homologated. Spain, like France, Italy, Belgium and Portugal, is governed by the Napoleonic Code. It's our story and we copy institutions. Therefore, the jurisdictional role exists in Spain, Italy, Portugal and France, and as far as I know, no one questions the democratic quality of any of these countries, only independence does it here. By the way, it's a model we export to all of South America. So, I just didn't understand that you now want to belong to the Anglo-Saxon world. They want to separate Catalonia and climb a little north and change the bar for the bomb; I do not think of anything else, ladies and gentlemen, with the dislate you pose with this initiative. You say that Europe disqualifies the jurisdictional function. See page 32 of the report - from the pages reviews -; see page 32 of the Court of Auditors' report, together with the European Court of Auditors, which states that the system is homologable, that it has full guarantees, that officials are qualified and that they deliver impartial judgments. It perfectly disassembles the barbarities that you have said here today. And we're going to the fourth point. Your arguments, ladies and gentlemen, those of the Independenceists, are not novel. Now you're going to be amazed who used you. You're gonna freak out! Do you know who was saying this? Jesús Gil and his lawyers in the Marbella case. Exactly the same! And that, ladies and gentlemen, gave rise to the following judgments, which formed an indissoluble body of accounting responsibility: Supreme Court judgments of 2 March 2012, 28 February 2013, 4 February 2014 and 21 January 2015; they disassemble each of the arguments, Your Honor, which you have handled here today. And fifthly, the Constitutional Court, which has not been questioned in Europe, ladies and gentlemen - as I know it - by no one, has approved the jurisdictional function. You have a problem - most of those who have come to this rostrum, except Mr. Legarda? -: you don't know what the jurisdictional function is. This is a serious problem when you go to the rostrum. It stated that the Constitutional Court - judgments of 16 November 1992, 17 October 1988 and 31 January 1999 - approved the jurisdictional function. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought, naively - I have to say - that this was legal and now it turns out that they have entered into personal disqualification. Here it has come to be said that Mr Aznar has tried a matter of his sister-in-law; Mr Asens has said it and has remained so calm, because he does not know who was in the prosecution section and that Mr Aznar simply made reports. But here, in this rostrum, it is worth everything; in the street it is not worth everything. Well, Mr. Pagès, you said they weren't independent, that Mrs. Ghent Marshal... For once in the trial section of the court there are three judges, the only thing you have repeated in this rostrum has been that you were not judges and it is the only time, of all the mandates of the Court of Auditors, that there have been three judges. And who was the other one? Mr Felipe Ortiz, proposed by the PSOE, is a great lawyer. It is only necessary to read the judgments, ladies and gentlemen, and there is no need to understand the law. In addition, I will tell you something: Mrs. Marshal de Gante no one has married a sentence in the Supreme Court. You say: no, the resource is limited. What they don't know is that you can sue until the facts are assessed. This remedy of review and cassation is much broader than that which exists in doctrine. And to be in this rostrum and preach, we must set an example. You have complained about the lack of independence of the councillors. Recently, ladies and gentlemen, the Union of Accounts has been appointed in Catalonia, an example of independence as you will see. President, Mr Salazar, who has held all the positions that have been held and that have been held in different governments in Catalonia; Mrs Llum Rodríguez, proposed by the PSOE, was the one that this House rejected because it was incompatible because it had managed public funds - there it does serve -. But I'm still here. Mrs Tarrach, current Director of Budgets, Member of the Government of the Generalitat. Yes, Mrs. Cabases has held various positions of trust in Esquerra and currently in Junts per Cat. Mr Roque, candidate for Junts per Cat, coalition member of the High Ampurdan, Mayor of Borrassà and Member of Parliament for a lifetime. And Mr. Rodriguez, former Councillor of Premià de Mar, is this the independence, ladies and gentlemen, that you preach? I will tell you one thing, Your Honor: there has only been one case of delegating a Court of Auditors file to the Union. It was the Palau case, does that ring a bell? Five years minus three days and he didn't move a finger. It had to be recovered by the Court of Auditors because, if not, it had prescribed it. That's how you act.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u59	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u60	Yes, Mr. President. In conclusion, at that ethical time of nationalism, I have only seen here today and learned one thing: you when you scratch your pocket, you end the epic, and it is that of the hair is the hair and not futem. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We have a part of the Plural Group, namely Junts, a proposal for a law to amend the rules of the Court of Auditors for which it calls for the favourable vote of this House. I advance our negative vote to your processing. We believe that this proposal they bring today is unnecessary, unhelpful and contrary to the Constitution in its letter and in its spirit. The Constitution regulates the Court of Auditors in its article 136 and assigns it a dual function: as the supreme supervisory body for the accounts and economic management of the State and the public sector, first of all, and with jurisdictional authority in the determination of accounting liability. Thus, the jurisprudence of the Court has determined that the Court of Auditors is supreme, but not unique, when it supervises, and unique, but not supreme, when it prosecutes this accounting responsibility; therefore, from the sum of the jurisprudence, the historical background of the Court and the interpretation of the constitutional precept, it is found that the Constitution confers on our Court of Auditors a genuine jurisdiction over the requirement of so-called accounting responsibilities. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, in the exercise of this jurisdiction, the Court of Auditors is the ordinary judge established by law in the matter of accounting responsibilities, unique in its order, with exclusive jurisdiction, full and improbable throughout the national territory. Mr Pagès, the proposal amends, for example, Article 17 of the Organic Law of the Court of Auditors so that two of the defining elements of the accounting jurisdiction, its exclusive and full character, disappear. But its exclusive character derives from article 136.2 of the Constitution itself, which defines it as an exception to the principle of jurisdictional unity; exclusiveness which implies that in matters assigned to it it is aware of all the issues which arise with absolute preference over other jurisdictional orders. The acts and provisions of the Court of Auditors are subject to direct control by the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court. And the claim of the proposed law to assign to the body that comes from the administrative and contentious jurisdictional order the knowledge of the appeal against the decisions of the Court of Auditors, in the cases and form that determines its operating law, also means breaking the principles mentioned above. In short, it implies the very consideration of accounting jurisdiction as one's own jurisdiction, by inserting it in an indeterminate manner into the administrative litigation. So far, ladies and gentlemen, certainly from the reading of your proposal, and even seeing it from the position contrary to your arguments, I must admit that there is intense work behind it, and even when they make technical proposals, they can only accuse the State, the Government, etc. Therefore, let me say, Mr Pagès - and you know I say this from the utmost respect - that we would have liked to see in your parliamentary group the same intensity, the same commitment of the Legislature in very important procedures for citizens, such as, for example, the last two budgets of the State or more recently the labour reform. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we hear your spokesman in this House, it is not precisely to try to reach agreements, not even sometimes to maintain a constructive dialogue, but rather attacks on the government and maximalist positions without any margin to find meeting points. I have the feeling, and perhaps only the feeling, that their legislative techniques are being very wasted, which respond more to a partisan agenda than to a commitment to the citizens, also to the Catalan and Catalan citizens, because, said from the ideological distance and parliamentary respect, their party and mine separate not only what we believe to be Catalonia and its relationship with the rest of Spain, not only how relations between governments and institutions should be, not only how we understand respect for the institutions of Catalan self-government, but also how we separate, and very much so, the real policy, the policy that makes progress to societies, the policy that improves the living conditions of our fellow citizens. My personal and political conviction, my divergence on the forms and funds of our political ends, do not need shouts or insults or artificial phrases, because we believe - I believe - both in our position and in what we have transferred to the Spanish and Catalan citizens that we do not need any wrapping or fireworks. I'm done, Your Honor, with the certainty of the right thing. [[Applauds]] Look, never, ever a scream did more than an argument, never a contempt did more than a dialogue. Our amendment to the whole of his party's independenceist political strategy is done with reasons, ideas and proposals, with the hand stretched out to advance in real problems, but with firm conviction and with transformative public policies, as he said, raising the SMI to 1000 euros or bringing to this House a historic social agreement to change labor reform. Let me read to you what your head of the list in Congress tells us - legitimately, it would be missing more -: Let's not give a vote to change res. We will not give a vote in exchange for anything, with this being understood as nothing for Catalonia's independence, of course. It is not the responsibility of an independent party to pass on to the Spanish State. It is not the responsibility of an independent party what happens in the Spanish State. It is certainly a pity this political displeasure, this continuous disdain, this construction of a parallel mental reality that has no translation in the real world, because the real world is here, ladies and gentlemen, with the political decisions that automatically improve the lives of our citizens, live where they live and think what they think. But, hey, it's your sovereign will, it would be missing more, it's your decision, it's your way of understanding the role of your group in this House. I will not be the one to give you advice on what citizens need from their politicians - and, believe me, I was able to see first hand in the Committee on Justice their work and their capacity for dialogue, and I have thanked them many times in private, and I say this also publicly - but I also say to you, like the spokesman for the UPC, who here spoke about the Catalan people, that the voice of Catalonia in this House is not the property of any party, of course, not of mine, but also without mine this voice is complete, and mine, without the courage to make an assessment of merits, was the last winner of the Catalan elections in Catalonia a year ago. [[Applauds]] That is why - and I am finishing, Mr President - and because we are guided by the general interest and the public service, and because we have long decided to move forward without looking back, we do not accept from anyone lessons of catalanity or progressiveism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u63	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u64	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the return of VAT unduly charged to research and development projects. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u65	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Yesterday we knew a very hopeful news in the field of cancer research. Researchers at the Institute of Oncology at Vall d'Hebron Hospital have shown that a therapeutic protein that inhibits MYC genes could be effective in curbing metastasis in breast cancer, a very widespread cancer that affects thousands of women annually. When these situations occur, as was the rapid reaction in the creation of vaccines for the fight against SARS-CoV-2, it is when we all remember science. However, this value given to knowledge and research is not permanent in time, nor has it been perceived as something that is often indispensable for citizenship, especially by the public authorities. Given the treatment given to the scientific community, anyone could deduce that it is not given the real value it has. Anticipating, for example, a catastrophe like the volcano of La Palma involves decades of studies, corrections of errors, modeling, experimentation, etc., something that requires stable research teams, with their labor needs and essential resources. This is why, far beyond remembering the scientific community when exploiting a volcano or when a pandemic is declared, the problem of investment in research and the precarious work of the sector must be addressed once and for all, which concerns and affects many people in a situation of great job insecurity in many research centres in the Spanish State. In Catalonia there are numerous research centres, whether they are associated with universities or not, which make this sector a leading sector, no longer only at the level of the Spanish State, but also of the whole of Europe. But not always the action of the different administrations towards these centers has been the right one. According to a binding decision of the Directorate-General for Taxation of 23 November 2009, investigative activities whose results are intended to be transferred to third parties under market conditions or competitive competition procedures shall be subject to and not exempt from value added tax, giving rise to the right to deduct the tax incurred by the acquisition or import of goods or services intended for carrying out such activities. Therefore, according to the current tax legislation of the Tax Agency, they have an obligation to return VAT paid by centres in due tax settlement. Despite this obligation, the Ministry of Finance is withholding R & D & I VAT from research centres and universities, refusing to return it, which is contrary to both Spanish and European legislation. The Finance Inspectorate claims that research and development is not an economic activity. However, they offer partial dispensations or removals to the centres in order to avoid litigation that the facility would probably lose. In 2016, the Supreme Court handed down judgements in favour of the universities of Santiago de Compostela and Salamanca, which had sued the court in relation to the tax agency's delay in returning the tax. This conduct of the Tax Agency further harms the autonomous centres, which are financed by the subsidies of the Autonomous Community itself. In other words, the central State uses this practice to divert resources from autonomous governments. Thus, if a centre is directly dependent on the CSIC, it is the ministry itself that grants a subsidy that can compensate for the unpaid VAT. On the other hand, in centres which are dependent on the Autonomous Administration, it is the Autonomous Government itself that pays this subsidy, so that the compensation ends up returning to the central Government in the form of a VAT which should remain in the Autonomous Community itself. This non-legislative proposal proposes to put an end to these dilatory practices of the Treasury, which waste the treasury of the research centers, already very wasted in resources, something that puts at serious risk to research and technological development, a sector that, according to the Government itself, is a priority for the modernization of the economy to the services of the citizenry, and more with the experience of the pandemic of the COVID-19, which has highlighted as never before the need to enhance talent in R+D+i. For all this, we ask you to support this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u66	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendment made by your group, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me to remind Mrs Mariscal de Gante, to whom, as Minister of Justice, the Asturians owe the unfolding of the Provincial Court and to whom, as adviser to the Court of Auditors, the Spaniards owe a permanent and enormous task of commitment and rigour to her country. Thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to the parliamentary initiative explained by Mr Margall, in order to return value added tax, with the relevant interests, to the development and research centres. In defence of science and innovation, through this non-legislative proposal, there are some issues which, paradoxically and expressed by one of the usual points of government, can be highlighted. The first is the recognition that the Sánchez Executive does not comply with the law, an issue that we already know who we oppose in this House, for example, the states of alarm, which ended up being declared unconstitutional at the appeals of the VOX Parliamentary Group, and in which the investigators were considered non-essential personnel. Knowing, Mr Margall, that you are no fan of the constitutional text on which all our laws are based, it is surprising that we are now being so proactive in demanding compliance with the laws and regulations, in this case the tax authorities, and with regard to this specific question of the return of VAT, a matter which dates back almost a decade. The second paradox is that this initiative leads the Ministry of Finance to coerce the Catalan research centres to accept the offers of assessment in the returns of VAT made by the Tax Agency. I do not know the depth of this accusation, which would, in any case, place us in the alleged application of illegal procedures that should not be left alone in a nebula of ether complaints and that should be combated. I would like again to remind you that three months ago the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group in Catalonia found the state budgetary mechanisms envisaged for science and innovation to be very correct, and that they are prepared precisely with the collection of taxes and, in particular, with the VAT that this government does not want to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, at the heart of this initiative lies what is already a chronic evil, the scarcity of resources available to our researchers and the centres where they carry out their task. Say what Minister Morant Ripoll's reports say, scientific work continues to be asphyxiating and, in fact, in the face of lack of certainty, the exodus of talents to other countries where labour stability does not depend on the volatility of contracts, resources and means that are poorly provided in Spain. Nor is the situation derived from an asphyxiating bureaucracy much better, and I would not like to miss my passage through the rostrum without mentioning the nothing edifying model of scientific centralization, which in Asturias has taken, for example, from moving the Institute of Dairy Products of Asturias dependent on the CSIC, capriciously moving its headquarters from its location, in the small village of Villaviciosa, to Oviedo. Some then complained that the evils of emptied Spain would go further, but the government of Sánchez disheartened the Parliament of Asturias and those of us who opposed this move. Ladies and gentlemen, returning to the operative part of this initiative which denounces tax evasion practices in the return of VAT and AEAT compulsions around its return to research centres, there is another aspect that I would like to point out and which I believe - let me say the judgment of intent - is the main reason for this non-law proposal, when it is stated, in the explanatory statement, that the State is benefiting from a delaying practice that diverts economic resources that should reach the Autonomous Communities. The defence of autonomous interests is legitimate, but the crucial thing is for the Government to comply with the entire university community and to be clarified once and for all about basic research and applied research to establish its proper and respective classification as economic activity. This would prevent VAT from being collected by the manu militari method which is to be corrected. It is worth recalling the Supreme's rulings in favour of the universities of Santiago and Salamanca six years ago, and even another previous one of the Madrid Audience in favour of Complutense, also for claims about VAT deductions. In short, I have tabled an addendum amendment to urge the Government to reach agreement with the CRUE Spanish Universities on the definition of expenditure on research and application of the right of deduction of VAT for delivery and services in the basic research activity. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u68	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u69	Thank you, President. Among the different learnings that the pandemic has brought us, one very important is that neither this country nor the world at large have a future if we do not care for those who make us move forward in ideas, knowledge and innovation. We owe him for many reasons. We have lived a decade of lost knowledge in our country; Spain has lost more than 10% of its total researchers since Rajoy's arrival in the government; now, this coalition government is making a determined bet to reverse those policies that drove our young talents to serve coffee in London or Berlin. These policies have led to the aging and precariousness of our research talent. I give you a data: in 2009, for example, one third of the academics were over 50 years old. Today, that percentage has risen to almost half. That means we have thousands of young people ready for an opportunity. Thus, we share with Esquerra Republicana the need to improve the conditions of researchers, but not as you put it in this proposal. You start from two conceptions that, from our point of view, are wrong. The first is that VAT is not eligible. The financing of science should not come from quota deductions, as they point out here, but from adequate financing of public services. And the second is that you try to simplify a debate by saying that all research and development activities in natural and technical sciences are exempt or not subject to VAT, when you know that the two sentences you have mentioned do not say that. What needs to be done is to address the debate on fiscal reform that the United Nations brought to this plenary last week. It is one of the most important challenges facing this coalition government. The pandemic has made a clear sense to us: in addition to betting on those who make us move forward in ideas, whose knowledge generates vaccines that then save us, those who charge the most must contribute to cover hospitals that care for us and schools that form us. The health crisis demands that we deepen the idea of redistribution and also of equality, and our proposal for tax reform follows this path. But let us not deceive anyone, these policies are not possible if Spain does not have a tax and tax structure similar to that of the countries in our environment. Being able to have a welfare state like the most advanced countries in Europe also requires a tax system similar to that of these countries. Spain has to be more Europe and less exception. Also, forgive me for telling you, it happens to you a little like that saying: tips I sell that I don't have for myself. Recently it seems that they have specialized in saying one thing here, in Madrid, and doing another thing there, in Catalonia, where they rule. And I'm not saying that, for example, because of the poor ways Councilman Cambray is proving these days. It cannot be that you demand dialogue when it comes to the Government of the State and then practice imposition and lack of planning with the educational community when you rule in the Generalitat. That is not why I am saying it, because Catalonia has been precisely one of the communities of the State that has suffered a more notable setback in educational and research investment. The best way to ensure that Catalonia remains a benchmark in research and development is not so much for the quota deductions as for the funding made by the government that you preside over. We must put an end to the fact that the research career is a race of obstacles; if necessary, also with the return of VAT as proposed in the amendment we have recorded, and we hope that you will accept it. That is what we are doing: giving a boost from the Ministry of Labour to put an end to those contracts of work and services that have caused so much precariousness also in the academic and research field, and which it seems that her adviser, Mrs Geis, does not understand either. In short, the future of research goes through good public funding, ending the temporality in the sector and also following the path already initiated by the Ministry of Universities to expand scholarships, lower university fees and master's prices to the current levels of degree. I am sure that we will find ourselves on that path, Mr de Esquerra Republicana, and that is the path we want to take in this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u70	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Utrilla Cano has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u71	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of Esquerra, between you and us there is an abyss not only political and ideological, but also of values. You hate Spain and want to see it shattered. We love our nation and believe in its unbreakable unity. [[Applauds]] You hate our Police and Civil Guard; from this rostrum you have said that you are savages and that you feel disgust and aversion to these occupying forces. In VOX we feel not only a deep respect for the men and women of these bodies, but also a huge gratitude and appreciation. [[Applauds]] In VOX we believe in the freedom of the individual, in the free choice of language for the education of our children, in the freedom of expression, in the freedom of religion; you, in the repression of everything above. Today we highlight another of the fundamental differences between you and us. If any party puts on the table an objectively good initiative for Spain, we support it without blinking, without doubt and from whomever comes. [[Applauds]] You pack democrats systematically reject our proposals just because they are from VOX and do argumental contortionism to try to explain their refusal. We have shown this on many occasions by voting in favour of his initiatives and of other parties. Today we will again give them an example of coherence and support this initiative for the simple reason that it is good for science if it is not undermined by the changes and amendments of other parties. [[Applauds]] We are submitting an amendment, since Articles 4 and 5 of the Value Added Tax Act state that the research activity carried out by universities will be subject to value added tax only if, as a result, goods or services are delivered for a fee. All transactions which are carried out without any consideration for them are therefore outside the scope of the tax. In paladin roman and so that we understand each other: when the university develops research projects without the objective of economically exploiting the results that it can obtain from them, but in order to offer them to society as a whole without the aim of obtaining any compensation for them, such activity would be not subject to VAT. Let them be clear, even though they call us negatists, VOX has always been supporting science and will always support it. [[Applauds]] Finally, you are seen suffering because more and more workers are voting for us and supporting us. They repeat it every time they come up to this rostrum and, I guarantee, in this past campaign in Castile and Leon through the streets and squares we have been approached countless autonomous, currant, to tell ourselves that we are their last hope, and we will not fail them. When you come up to this rostrum you are constantly wondering that if any of our VOX Members and a worker vote the same thing, who is wrong about both of you? I will tell you and resolve your dilemma: you are the only ones who are wrong, because the workers of Spain, including the Catalans, have tired of their betrayals and lies. [[applause]] Who do you want to vote for? To socialist gentlemen, who spend their money in Andalusia on cocaine and prostitutes? Yes, gentlemen, the EREs of Andalusia, up to 680 million. Or Mr. Echenique, who blew up the only worker he had without paying his Social Security? Can you imagine Mr. Echenique with a company of thousands of workers? Or the communists of this country, who instead of singing "To the barricades!", in their anthem, now sing "to the shellfish"? Or to you, gentlemen of Esquerra, who promised the workers of Catalonia that they would be better off with the process, that they would be richer and happier? [[Applauds]] And Catalonia, since then, has not stopped losing productive tissue and winning ruin, misery and social rupture. We knew a few days ago that Volkswagen is taking the manufacture of electric motors to Hungary, instead of doing it at its Martorell plant. Another success of the separatist administration. Congratulations. [[Applauds]] They don't cheat on anyone anymore. Stop squandering on embassies and Mafia associations and devote all resources to research and science, although this is as utopian as the independent republic that they want to impose on us. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u72	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guaita Esteruelas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u73	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, no one doubted before the pandemic the fundamental role of science in the advancement of our society, and the pandemic has only reinforced the view that without science our country is not making progress. Many scientists dedicate their lives to making health, social or economic progress so that our society is more just and equitable, but our country has not always responded in a reciprocal way to the efforts of scientific and technical personnel, with the comings and goings of the General Budgets of the State that have in many cases made scientific careers and scientific projects inviolable. For the right, science has always been relegated to a secondary role, but for the various socialist governments it has been a key piece. Because while for the right scientific policy is based on a tweet, a photo, to end up voting against legislative advances, socialist governments have taken key steps to end the precarious work that has traditionally been linked to the scientific career. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember when pre-doctoral investigators didn't have a job contract, even Social Security? I do remember it because it happened to me. Do you know who took the four-year scholarship to two-year scholarship plus two-year contract? A socialist government. Do you know who went from two years of contract to four years of contract for pre-doctoral investigator staff? A socialist government. Do you know who approved the Statute of Predoctoral Research Staff in 2019, with a 12% increase in salaries? A government led by a socialist president. And do you know, finally, in this 2022, who is going to pass in the new law of science a new right for scientists and scientists of our country and a long claim of predoctoral and postdoctoral? A government led by a socialist president. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, support for science is demonstrated by facts, such as the adoption of the Science Act in 2011 by a socialist government, or the adoption on February 18, 2022, in the Council of Ministers, of the preliminary draft law amending the Science Act by a government of progress. This law will dignify the working conditions of researchers, with a very important part going in line with the Squerra GNP: ensuring stable and growing public financing of R & D+i, aligned with the European Union, and in this line the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are working. Because while the right wing expelled scientific personnel from the system and the country and said it was international mobility, the government of Pedro Sánchez improves the conditions of scientific personnel, putting an end to job insecurity and creating an indefinite new contract, marking a stable path. Ladies and gentlemen of the ultra-right, of the five minutes you have spent talking about this GNP, you have devoted one to talking about science, this is your contribution to science. Because, ladies and gentlemen, VOX and science are an oximoron, because they are negatists of science and do not support science, but support pseudosciences: not vaccination - a great milestone of science - not climate change - a great scientific demonstration. So, you don't work for science, you work for some little chiringuites that have no scientific foundation. [[Applauds]] The right and the right say they support science, but they voted against the 59% increase in the state budgets of 2021 and in the 2022 budget, which also increase the budget by 19%, reaching 3843 million euros. Do you know what the PP was doing when he ruled? Reduction of the budget in science by 40%, implying a lost decade for Spanish science. I suppose if you want to fight and defend science, as you fill your mouths when you come up to the rostrum, at least you will vote in favour of amending the Law of Science. Mr Margall, the return of VAT in certain activities is already marked by the law, as you know, and the government is going to comply with it, but if we want to talk about investment in science, that is budget, and this is also committed by the government and this parliamentary group, hence the amendment we have tabled to you. I suppose if all parliamentary groups want to fight and defend science, they will row in the same direction and pass the next law of science. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u74	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u75	Thank you, President. Today the Republican Group brings us a GNP to discuss a controversy about the tax treatment in VAT of the costs generated by the basic research projects of universities and research centres, which are normally financed from the university's own resources and from grants from the various territorial administrations. Thus, the Tax Agency's position argues that basic research was linked to teaching activity and therefore VAT could not be deducted. And the position of the universities said that both branches of research, both basic and applied, should be treated as applied research, which did allow deduction. It is a dispute that, despite the fact that it has been settled by the courts, remains stalled, according to what they explain to us in their GNP. My group is going to support this initiative because we understand that in this type of matter relating to applied research, basic research and, of course, R & D & I, it is appropriate to use as broad and permissive an approach as possible to allow the deduction of VAT from these operations, as all helps to advance knowledge. Basic research is essential to advance knowledge, but it also opens up new avenues for applied research, a basic research which sometimes materializes into concrete results and sometimes does not, but this does not mean that there has been no market orientation in order to be able to deduct that VAT. Moreover, the tax agency's action is not understood, when the judgments are clear, so there must be no delay in returning that VAT, and less so at this time, which also seems to be the Government's commitment to research as an engine of the economy. It must be said that research in Spain, so far, has been at the forefront of the OECD and European Union countries. It is true that innovation and science cannot be encouraged on the basis of a deduction from VAT, but rather of proper financing, but it cannot be said that VAT should not be returned when the courts have said that it has to be done. As I said, we will support the proposal, but we also believe that it would be advisable to have a common approach to the definition of these costs and their possible deduction so that there will be no further controversy in the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u76	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we welcome an initiative that addresses one of the main problems of the system of science, technology and innovation, a public administration that, in this matter, has even had to be condemned by Justice on several occasions to return VAT to universities and research centres for R & D expenditure. Of course we agree on this. We are, in any case, awaiting the amendments that have been announced to see the final text that will be put to the vote. Moreover, we understand that the Government cannot fail to comply with what the Supreme Court has already said is law enforcement. But this is just one of the many problems that scientific research has in Spain, problems that have come from years ago, which were supposed to be solved with the Science Act of 2011, a decade ago, but it turns out it hasn't been so. In fact, the problems remain the same as they were at the time, such as the lack of stability and security in the professional career of researchers, the lack of resources and resources in a determined and clear way, and the excessive bureaucracy, which prevents researchers from engaging precisely in research. All these problems always have one more, which is the problem of the incorrect application by the Tax Agency of legal criteria to deny universities and research centres, as stated in its proposal, that 100% of the expenditure invested in research and technological development, in natural and technical sciences is returned to them. Nevertheless, the proposal has been made to remove and wait for these returns in order to avoid judicial claims, such as those that in 2016 already assumed judicial pronouncements in favor of the universities of Santiago or Salamanca, judicial pronouncements that have been repeated in the case of other universities. All of this in the end is insufficient regulation, despite what has been said that the 2011 law was a great step forward. It was, but not, of course, necessary or sufficient, and this is the product of the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, who knew the problems and have not really done anything effective to solve them. Moreover, the science bill announced this week by Minister Morant already has the first criticisms of the research sector. It's insufficient. [[The lady]] From Citizens we have always worked and demanded a legal regulation for truly effective science; that it not always place researchers in the focus of suspicion; that it removes bureaucratic obstacles; that it allow a more agile and accessible funding, or that it strengthens the necessary work of control of public funds in that funding, but always ex post, that is, when they are already available to researchers so that they do not waste their time. In a word, fast but not counterproductive financing with serious control, because they are not incompatible concepts. It was we who demanded and achieved access to innovation for small and medium-sized enterprises through the Cervera Network, which allows the financing of R & D & i projects of companies up to 85% by the CDTI. It is we who only a few days ago proposed that assistance to Spanish researchers should be strengthened by means of the figure of the research managers, who can take charge of the bureaucratic work proper to this field, freeing the researchers to devote themselves to their work, so that they can be the ones who seek funding, control calls and deadlines and justify the expenses where appropriate. It is also we who have come years demanding a plan of attraction, retention and return of the research talent, for what we have proposed, despite the announcements that have been made many times since the ministry, something that has not yet materialized in any way: progressive bonuses for companies of up to 25% in the hiring of researchers with indefinite contracts and a minimum of five years, or additional bonuses in the social security contributions of up to 80% in the first year when researchers who have left Spain are hired to obtain their doctorate or continue their research work; a line of aid for the hiring of research personnel who have left Spain, when it is done for at least four years, by universities or any IPOs; a specific line of aid for the recruitment of research staff who have left Spain, with the aim of facilitating their recruitment by innovative SMEs and startups for a minimum period of three years, or the review, in which we have insisted, of the application of the statute of the scientific research staff who have left Spain, with the objective of facilitating their recruitment of research personnel for a real contract, or the revision, in which we have insisted on the application of the scientific advance in the pre-contractual training of the pre-contracts in the pre-contract, the pre- [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u78	I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u79	..., also giving incentives to companies if the predoctoral researcher with whom they have had a contractual relationship finally obtains their doctorate degree. It is not just a question of seeking partial solutions for universities and research centres in science, as requested in this non-law proposal - which also, and therefore we will support - but we cannot remain alone in that when there are also Supreme Court rulings and jurisprudence on the matter. It is a question of this Government doing what it has not done before with either the Socialist Party or the People's Party, that it really starts to bet on an efficient science system and that it stands out for its contribution of added value to society, for its competitiveness and for its quality. In this the researchers know that they will always be able to count on Citizens, because we have always been here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u80	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u81	Thank you very much, President. In days like today, when we see the atrocious cannibalism of politics, I would like it to be clearer, simpler, more common sense, and this proposal is common sense. If there is a judgment saying that VAT must be returned to universities and research centres, it must be returned. It's as simple as law enforcement. Sometimes it seems that claiming that the law is enforced is asking for the moon. No, it is being demanded that it be fulfilled and, therefore, that these resources be released and can be devoted to interesting things, such as research and knowledge. We shall therefore vote in favour. This proposition is loaded with reason, as we say in my land. That the tax should be complied with and that VAT should be returned to universities and research centres, and that this should be done now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u83	Thank you, President. Very briefly. Let's vote in favour. We agree. We know the problem and have been trying to solve it for a long time, although the amendment was vetoed in the State's General Budgets. I would like to congratulate all the parliamentary groups who will today vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal which takes note of the following. Bill amending the Special Taxes Act, the VAT Act and the Consular Fees Act. Government Bill, which was sent to the House. The period of amendments was completed at the end of November. Take note. Amendment 41 of the Democratic Party. All those who vote in favour of this GNP today will have to vote in favour of Amendment 41 for consistency. What does Amendment 41 say? Very simple: amends Article 78 of the VAT Act, in particular point 3(2) and introduces a paragraph which states that generic or basic research is considered an economic activity. Therefore, all those who are voting in favour of this GNP today remember: Amendment 41, bill amending the VAT Act, the Special Taxes Act and the Consular Fees Act. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. A few weeks ago the former councillor of the Generalitat of Catalonia, Puigneró, of Politiques Digitals i Territori, the councillor Giró, d'Economia i Hisenda and Constellera Geis, of Recerca i Universitats sent a letter to the Minister of Science and Innovation complaining of the pernicious effects of Royal Decree 1040/21 of 23 November, which is the one relating to innovative projects in the deployment of advanced 5G and 6G technologies. The content of the letter is another example to be added to the one presented today by the Republican Group with this GNP. In both cases we have a similar situation. There is a subsidy for groups, centres or research projects, the funds of which either come from the budget of the Generalitat or from the European funds, as the case may be. The beneficiaries pay VAT with part of the subsidy they receive. VAT cannot be compensated or recovered. By supporting VAT, the beneficiaries are allocated less money than they have received for research and VAT increases part of Spain's budget, which has contributed zero to this investment. That is to say, that Spain, which does not invest any of these amounts in research - in particular, I am talking about these - makes money with grants from the European Union or Catalonia, while the beneficiaries of the grant lose this amount by VAT and therefore have fewer resources to investigate, which is what they received the money for. This is done by the Spanish Government, in addition to failing to fulfil its own obligations, because the Ministry of Finance - we are reminded in the GNP - is obliged, by different legislation and case law, to return the VAT paid by the research centres. The Ministry of Finance fails to fulfil this obligation. However, the Ministry of Finance may fail because it does not like this obligation, just as it does not, by citing another example, the State General Budgets Act. I am talking, for example, about the EUR 9 billion of COVID funds. It was an amendment tabled by Junts per Catalunya and which was approved by various parliamentary groups - all except those of the Government - and which the minister hastened to say that they were not going to implement. You, ladies and gentlemen of the governing parties, who always defend that the law must be enforced, are now failing to comply with the law. We have here two essential areas of non-compliance: the COVID funds-the needs arising from the pandemic persist; they have not ended, unfortunately - and research, which is the future of a country, as the vaccines that have been investigated in such a short time show. We will, of course, vote in favour of it as it cannot be otherwise, and we hope that all the announcements that have been made to us about the law of science will actually be fulfilled and that the career of the IDP will really be the one that is being pointed out.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u86	Mrs. Illamola, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u87	On the one hand. On the other hand, we will support the law of science, as long as it respects the Catalan model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Navarro López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Margall, the first thing I have to do is to congratulate him, because of course he has made a unanimous practice, which I believe - let me be a joke - you did not believe either. I am already telling you that the Group of the European People's Party is going to vote in favour, and primarily because we are presenting a very similar amendment, if not exactly the same, in the State's general budgets. This one I have here, which I already tell you is almost the same. [[shows a document]] We present Others, which I will report later. I recognize the opportunity, at least, as soon as Friday last week the Council of Ministers approved the reform of the Science Act - we will now talk about that, Mrs Guaita; I do not see it, but I am sure it is here. Therefore, I think it is a very good opportunity - I commend you for the pleasure - to talk about funding and research, whatever the form. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, Mrs Guaita - you are going to forgive me for the joke - has failed to say that Mr Cendón, whom I very much appreciate, invented penicillin. World science owes everything to the PSOE, everything; everything to the PSOE. Again, lost decade. In my group we're already joking: I suck every time they say it. We can either the PSOE. Hey, a decade is ten years - a decade is ten years -. I'm full of letters, but that's what it's for. They choose the decade they want, from 2008 to 2018, which is when Pedro Sánchez entered, or from 2011 to today. I repeat, they choose the decade they want. In both cases the PSOE is responsible for at least three years. Therefore, I would sit my clothes before talking about the lost decade. They're always with the same thing. Of those ten years - I repeat, they choose the interval they want -, three are their fault, Zapatero's or Pedro Sánchez's. Anyway, that's where I leave it. [[Applauds]] You say the People's Party voted against it. Look, the People's Party voted in favour of the reform of the Science Act, and you know perfectly well that the then minister, Mrs Garmendia, met alone with the People's Party and did not leave until she had an agreement. Today the People's Group has the summary sent to it by the minister by e-mail of the law adopted by the Council of Ministers on Friday. I have a summary. [[Applauds]] Does the Socialist Party want agreement on the Science Act? Yes or no? Does the Socialist Party want unanimous agreement with the Group of the European People's Party? Yes or no? Because what the People's Group has today, and it's easier we haven't been able to put it, is a summary, a powerpoint. That is the reality, Mr Cendón and Mrs Guaita, and I take the opportunity to tell the Minister. That is exclusively the reality. We tabled this same amendment, Mr Margall, but we also tabled one so that the corporate tax rate would not be raised to 15%. Today we have seen in the media that there are companies that say they are not going to invest in R & D because it costs them a lot of money in share of the company tax. And that has been done by the Socialist Party. We have been working for months on a subcommittee for the reform of the Science Act in which there has been virtually unanimity. Virtually all those who have come have said two things. The first, state pact, no photo pact, no unilateral document; state pact. The second, systemic funding, basal, non-council funding. But he has even said to the Workers' Committees that the funding currently available is entirely due to the European funds, and I thank him for giving me the reason, because it has indeed been. What the People's Group has said is that we will only support a reform of the law if it has the affected groups. The forgotten hospital researchers, the technical and management staff forgotten. We want the right to five-year-olds and six-year-olds for all, not just for one part. We have a historic opportunity, and our science, of course, deserves it, but the reality, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, is that at the moment - at the moment - what we have is a powerpoint of the ministry. And so you will agree with me that it is very difficult to reach agreements. At least they could sit down, negotiate and really work for consensus. You have criticized VOX for devoting I don't know how many minutes to talking about something else, but you have spent three minutes talking about the People's Party instead of reaching out. I ask the ministry and the Socialist Group to hold hands, to stop thinking only about the achievements of the Socialist Party and to realize that the achievements must be among all, because the previous reform of the Law of Science was made among all and, if we do not do it among all, it will serve absolutely nothing. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Margall, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u91	President, we are negotiating a compromise amendment with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u92	All right. When they've got it, they'll send it to us. - PROPOSAL NO LAW OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE PROHIBITION OF PUBLICITY OF CONTAMINANT VEHICLES. [[File number 162/000925]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u93	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Plural Parliamentary Group on the prohibition of advertising of polluting vehicles. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u94	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by sharing with you an important fact: in our country, Spain, about 45,000 people die a year because of the effects of pollution and poor air quality. It is a pollution and poor air quality that have its main source of emissions in road traffic. This is a fact. That is why we are presenting today an initiative on the advertising of cars, so that from 2025 only zero-emission vehicles can be advertised and that we stop promoting those vehicles which directly damage our health and which also contribute to an increase of approximately 27% in greenhouse gases. We present this initiative that we have worked with Ecodes, economic foundation and development, and that aligns with European citizens' initiatives that go in the same direction, because the pollution produced by vehicles, by cars, is a problem of public health and also because the pace of transformations in Europe are marking us a path. Look at you, keep two important dates: 2030 and 2035. By 2030, the European Union as a whole will have to reduce emissions by 55% and by 2035 the sale of new petrol, diesel, gas or hybrid vehicles will not be allowed. We are in 2022 and the ban in Europe will be in 2035. They will agree with me that, in recent years, advertising in the automotive sector has been enormously used to whitewash or lower the responsibility of internal combustion vehicles in health and in the climate crisis. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u96	We are absolutely convinced that this regulation - the elimination of advertising - will increase public awareness of products and technologies that are directly responsible for climate change and, in this context, the car industry invests the most in advertising. According to 2019 data, brands have devoted around 500 million euros to advertising, 13% of all advertising in our country. The French Sustainable Mobility Act, for example - there is more - is already betting to include in car ads messages like those that we can read today in tobacco boxes, warning of how harmful pollution is to health and encouraging other forms of mobility, public transport or more active mobility. We, in More Country-Greens Equo, want to go a step further and, therefore, we raise two questions. The first, that from January 2025 the advertising of gasoline, diesel and other broadcasting technologies, such as hybrid or gas cars, is eliminated and that from January 2027 only those brands or models that are zero emissions can establish sponsorships. That would affect any media advertisement, advertising fences, online advertising, sports, cultural sponsorships, etc., related to public events or the media. Advertising of cars must necessarily face the transition that its sector is undergoing towards sustainable mobility, and it must do so urgently. The sector itself is waiting for clear and indicative signals with the new regulations, and it is that there is nothing worse than lack of leadership or anticipation, just as there is nothing worse than sending false or confusing signals. Because today we are not only talking about negationism - almost no one denies, except your ladies and gentlemen deVOX, the impact of climate change - we are talking about what experts call petardism, that is, we assume that we have a serious and serious problem, but it is never the time to address the problem and it goes from moratorium to moratorium until it reaches the final disaster or they say it does not touch, but it does, ladies and gentlemen, and it does because the car sector is key to our economy. We are the eighth country in the world in the export of vehicles, but look!, our main buyers - Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Belgium, Portugal - are also affected by the regulations of 2035. They're also affected. In this regard, it is therefore a profound error to continue to encourage advertising and consumption of products that already have an expiry date. We have to reach 2035 with the duties done, with the work done, because we have to turn it, moreover, into an opportunity for the Spanish industry and to bet on green reindustrialisation. The livelihood of thousands of families depends on this sector. Do not anticipate or stand back in these transformations, which are inevitably going to happen, will end up suffering from workers, because only they and they will see the possibility of losing their jobs when multinationals decide to take the production of clean vehicles, as is already happening, to other countries that have put their money and are ahead of themselves by technology and specialisation in decarbonisation. The transformation for electric mobility can generate hundreds of thousands of green jobs, not only the electrification of cars, but also public transport, the manufacture and repair of bicycles, engines, batteries and charging points.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u97	You have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u98	If the horizon is 2035 and 2050 for decarbonization, let's stop making false advertising. We invest and fight for funds capable of generating employment, innovation and the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments made by your groups, I have the floor, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Bustamante Martín.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u100	Climate change is the greatest challenge facing mankind in the twenty-first century. Naomi Klein said that there is a war between climate and capitalism, and I believe that this criticism of the mode of production is also necessary here. It is a system that produces inequality - 1% of the population has more wealth than the remaining 99% -, a system that provokes wars to take over natural resources and markets and a system that also destroys the environment by the mode of production. Climate change does not come out of nowhere, but is the result of a production model that destroys our own bases of existence. The facts are irrefutable: contaminated soil and water, loss of biodiversity, greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, desertification, chemicals leaks in the environment. Faced with this reality, which is dramatic, what is the position of the right of the House and the extreme right? The extreme right, as the companion of More Country said, denies climate change, even though it is scientifically proven, and also tries to confront certain sectors with the defense of a planet that is habitable for our children. The PP has proposed in the Ecological Transition Commission that the leadership in the fight against climate change be given by companies. The market is therefore left with a major challenge that also requires democratic planning and public planning. In this regard, I believe it is important that the political forces of the left agree, that we seek solutions and agreements in this regard. We have clear objectives and it is essential that we be able to achieve them. The National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan targets for 2030 28% of vehicles requiring renewable energy, electric vehicles, i.e. five million vehicles. In this sense, it is unlikely that five years before reaching even 28% we will address one of the points raised by the GNP. The European Commission marks 2035 for the elimination of the sale of polluting vehicles and the Climate Change and Ecological Transition Act also marks a number of milestones that are fundamental. We must therefore push to ensure that electrification does not go any slower than the objectives set, we must push the automotive sector to carry out the necessary and urgent changes to move on this path and we must also push for the necessary public transition process to be followed in an industry that accounts for 10% of GDP - as the partner said - and two million jobs, which have to be readjusted to the new reality and the necessary changes. In addition, it is a sector that has been paralyzed during the pandemic. While Ayuso's brother was doing business, the car workers were at ERTE; protected, at least, thanks to ERTE. We have therefore tabled an amendment calling on the Government, firstly, to set up a working group among the ministries involved to promote sustainable mobility that respects the environment and health, in line with the objectives set; secondly, to promote through the PERTE the production of zero-CO2 vehicles and the manufacture of key elements for these vehicles, which will enable Spain - and this is also fundamental - to position itself globally as a benchmark in the production of clean vehicles, and thirdly, to introduce measures to advance the sustainability of transport and mobility from a social, economic and environmental perspective. For another day there is also another fundamental debate, which is how to articulate public transport, especially rail, as an alternative to individual transport. I would therefore ask colleagues in More Country to accept the amendment. I believe that the objectives they propose, and we share, for the fight against climate change are more effective with the measures we put forward in the proposal than making a proposal that I believe is not yet accompanied by the temporary milestones that mark...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u101	Mr. Bustamante, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u102	... both the Climate Change Act and the objectives set by the European Commission. In that regard, I would like to show our group's commitment to the fight against climate change and the possibility of an agreement with the proposing group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Bustamante. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Anguita Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, that climate change is a reality is a contrasted fact and that every day we suffer its consequences is obvious. Therefore, it would be logical that it would be unnecessary to highlight its mere existence in the middle of 2022. However, ladies and gentlemen, today we have in this House Members and Members who, at least - and being quite generous - refuse to acknowledge the need and urgency for further progress in regulations, legislation and policies that are going directly to combat climate change. This proposal focuses on the automotive industry and its advertising. Let us go ahead and share the spirit and substance of this GNP, which is nothing more than to promote and help to implement the agreements that our country has signed in the fight against climate change. These commitments are key to making Spain one of the countries with the highest social commitment, the highest productive commitment and the highest political commitment in terms of ecological transition and environmental sustainability across Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take into account a number of factors when we talk about the possibility of banning advertising of what has a non-neutral effect on our planet, and that is why we cannot support this proposal. Firstly, because, if we extrapolate this measure to the whole of production, almost all advertising of almost all products would be prohibited, as unfortunately we are still far from minimizing, for example, the carbon footprint that leaves the manufacture of our products. Secondly, because, in this case, it would be to point directly to a sector that is already adapting almost perfectly to the different European and also national environmental sustainability regulations; a sector of tremendous importance to our productive system and on which almost two million families depend directly. Thirdly, because it means prohibiting the advertising of an economic activity that will continue to be necessary. The National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan states that, in the volume of the vehicle fleet, five million vehicles by 2030 will have to be electrified, of which three million will have to be passenger cars. Reaching this fleet of vehicles of this type will require a market share of almost 40% that year, i.e. national and European legislation itself understands that there will be a market to be covered by new combustion vehicles, that is, more efficient than the previous ones. And, in relation to this point, it makes no sense to ban advertising new combustion vehicles when the main problem we have with pollution is old vehicles. In Spain we have an average age of 13 and a half year old vehicles. This means that almost 70% of the vehicles on the road produce almost 90% of all emissions of oxide and nitric dioxide and more than 70% of those of carbon dioxide. That is why we have made an amendment, together with Unite Podemos, which we believe changes the form of GNP but not the fund, because it will continue to push for effective measures to stop and, to the extent possible, reverse the progress of climate change. What do we propose? First, develop the PERTE for the development of electric and connected vehicles within the framework of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The objective is to allocate part of the resources to the drive of industrial investment to strengthen the decarbonisation process in Spain, so that it can position itself as a global platform in the manufacture of vehicles with zero CO2 emissions. On the other hand, as my partner in the United Nations said, we can make reference in the manufacture of some key elements, such as batteries or renewable hydrogen. Secondly, we propose introducing new measures to advance transport and mobility sustainability with three very clear perspectives: the first, social; the second, economic; and the third, environmental. At the same time, we will put in place measures to promote inclusive mobility for all groups and in all territories. All this under the umbrella of the principle of just transition so that no collective stays behind, no productive sector stays behind or no sector of the territory stays behind. Finally, we propose the setting up of a working group of the ministries involved to promote awareness campaigns, to promote sustainable mobility that respects not only the environment, but also, as Mrs Sabanes said, the health of people within the framework of the next sustainability law and in line with the objectives set out in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan. I'm just finishing up, Madam President. Gentlemen of More Country, I have tried to be as constructive as possible. I know that there will now come another kind of discourse much more catastrophic and much more accusatory than we want to break the productive system of this country, that we want to raise taxes to I don't know who for the sake of I don't know how much, that behind our proposals is ETA, Soros, the Chinese..., but, in fact, you know that none of that is true. Today we do not support this proposal for one reason: we understand the substance, but we believe that there are other ways of doing so. We simply understand that this measure would have a more negative effect in general than positive in relation to the environment and sustainability in particular. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Anguita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Using a terminology consistent with the subject, it could be said that More CountryGreenEquo has stepped on the pedal in depth and wants Spain to become a universal leader in ecology, but without measuring the social and economic consequences of fundamentalist measures such as those raised in the initiative. Our country is obliged to respect the international agreements adopted to improve the environment, such as the measures adopted in Paris against climate change seven years ago, or to strive to achieve the supranational objectives, specifically those set by the European Union. However, the decarbonization of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and its support has irreversible consequences for society. [[Mrs. Sabanes Nadal makes negative gestures]] We know this in Asturias with the closure of the mines in the year 2018, which is dragging to the desertification of the basins and has assumed the irresponsible renunciation of our energy sovereignty, because coal is the only indigenous fossil fuel that we have in Spain, with which, by concluding its exploitation and its use in the thermal power plants, our already enormous energy dependence has become even more acute. Hence, among other factors of impoverishment, the prices of light that families are paying, historical records that also punish businesses and industries. Mrs Sabanes, you have defended measures which, if completed, would seriously harm the economy of Spain, since the ban on advertising all vehicles with internal combustion engines is intended to eliminate the incentives to purchase them. This amounts to a disregard for the importance of the automotive sector, which accounts for about 10% of national GDP, 18% of our total exports and gives direct employment to 66 000 people, not to mention the fact that eight jobs are generated for each of them throughout the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the transition from the automotive sector is technologically moving towards electrification, but today we are on the European line. While in 2012 the electrified market managed to increase its share to almost 8 % of total sales, Spain is far from other competing markets in the European environment: Germany, 26 %; France, 18,3 %; or Portugal, 19,7 %. In Spain, I repeat, there is only 8% and we are moving away from the Community average. But in this non-law proposal he wants to set himself on 1 January 2025 - that is, it is now less than three years - to eliminate the stimuli to the purchase of non-electrical vehicles. Apart from banning, have you, Mrs Sabanes, calculated the calamitous social and economic consequences of your proposals against the advertising of internal combustion vehicles that impact the automotive industry, the dealers and the long list of professional activities that rotate and live in this strategic sector? In addition, if this parliamentary initiative were to take effect, it would be a complete intervention on sponsorships linked to the brands of internal combustion vehicles, which you have wanted to ban since the beginning of 2027. In other words, within five years all cultural, educational, scientific, social, and so on, will have to deal with them without such sponsorships that in Spain are one of the main sources of external financial support, often essential for their survival. The advertising sector would also be affected, as automotive is the industry that invests most in advertising, with seven firms among the top twenty advertisers in Spain. In 2019 the brands of vehicles dedicated to the purchase of advertising spaces 564 million euros, nothing less than 13% of the total advertising investment, as you have recognized in your intervention. In any case, if sponsorship is prohibited, who will cover the lack of economic resources for these entities? The state via taxes, its partners and the public paying more expensive their fees and tickets? Finally, I would like to point out that this proposal comes at a critical time for the car sector, which is also suffering the consequences of the pandemic, because there is a stoppage in economic activity that is reflected in the reluctance to purchase vehicles, as economic recovery does not reflect the sales of dealers. In short, the expectations of replacing electric motor vehicles are very long-term. It does not seem a good time for the Government to change market procedures to promote the sale of vehicles. In addition, in Asturias we already know the effects of filling the BOE with ecological literature of official dispatch and destroying employment without alternatives. The last thing that automotive needs in Spain is prohibitive measures. There are thousands of jobs at stake. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u108	Thank you, President. Today Mrs Sabanes and Más País bring us a non-law proposal to prohibit the advertising of combustion, petrol and diesel vehicles, starting in 2025 and a proposal to reduce the number of more polluting vehicles, thus eliminating the buying stimuli emanating from those advertisements in the media, advertising fences, websites, social networks... In addition, the proposal states that from 2027 no combustion vehicle will be able to sponsor sports, cultural, educational or scientific entities or events. The proposing group tells us that advertising plays an important role in raising awareness and teaching about the climate emergency and sending out correct signals to the consumer. This is true and, moreover, there is little regulation on this issue. It is clear that the fight against climate change should certainly accelerate changes in the model with which brands are advertised. We share the fund, but it also seems somewhat contradictory to continue to advertise polluting vehicles when the law sets a date for their disappearance. The truth also, Mrs Sabanes, is that your GNP only refers to certain cars and would leave out certain models that are not zero emissions - i.e. liquefied gas, hybrids and plug-in hybrids - when most of the time these are driven by burning fossil fuels. It must also be said that new vehicles are more efficient and we believe that the problem is in the Spanish car park, which is too old. Of course, no publicity will be given to these vehicles, which should be withdrawn from the market as soon as possible. Irrespective of this hue, my group understands that perhaps the proposal should not go so far as to prohibit, but in line with the style used by France, which recommends the use of much less polluting alternatives in its advertisements. It should not be forgotten that the European Commission has also set a date for the advertising ban: 2028. In addition, we believe that we must now try to find a balance for a sector that is making a great effort for its conversion, in which the pandemic crisis is still raging and which is going through a difficult period through the bottlenecks, the problems of supply of semiconductors, etc. Perhaps before we put forward a ban we should talk to the sector concerned to find the best option. And not only with the car sector, but also with the media, because we must not forget that the car sector is one of the biggest advertisers, which could also lead to that. Do we really believe that the fact that one brand advertises only one electric motor will serve the purpose of not incentivizing the purchase of the rest, including hybrids? Will people really receive the message of a clean mobility, when only a model is announced, if it doesn't say anything else that publicity? I also think that this should be deepened. We, as we have doubts, prefer to advocate at first for the recommendation rather than for the prohibition, as well as to ensure that the advertising that is made is directly consistent with the activity that is carried out and with the recommendations that can be made. It should be noted whether these targets for the development, introduction and sale of zero-emission vehicles are being met, since most measures and incentives to encourage the purchase of the electric vehicle are already in place, and to analyse the behaviour of advertising by the sector, as the date of the ban on advertising established by Europe approaches. And, if they are not convincing and have not done their duties, of course we will have to proceed with other types of tougher regulation at this time, as the ban could be. We now advocate more to prevent, measure and correct than to prohibit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u110	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we will be very clear on this point: we will support banning the advertising of internal combustion vehicles, as More Madrid says, but we will approve it not now, but in 2035, when its sale will be prohibited. What is the point of allowing the sector to sell a product and not to advertise it? We say this to them: to unjustifiably damage a key sector for our economy and for all families living in it. We are debating here a non-legislative proposal affecting a sector whose contribution to the national gross domestic product amounts to 11% and which in terms of employment reaches 9% of those employed in our country: 1.8 million workers, of whom 66 000 work in car factories. In fact, Spain is the second largest producer in the European Union in the manufacture of vehicles, only surpassed by Germany. In 2020 more than two million industrial vehicles were manufactured in our country and this makes us the first European manufacturer in this type of vehicle, the second in passenger cars and the fourth in components. It is a sector that, Mr de Más País, we believe deserves a little more respect when it comes to putting forward measures that can affect your future. Or are you going to tell almost two million employees in the sector that you're going to ban advertising of what you make a living with? The automotive sector has been one of the most hit by the pandemic crisis. First they were affected by the problems of the supply chain at the global level and then by the restrictions imposed on non-essential activity, and yet they continued to fulfill and hoist their shoulders to move forward in this crisis. They have suffered the rise in the enrolment tax or the end of the Renovation Plan, which made the recovery even more difficult in 2021, and yet they continued to comply, hoisting their shoulders and pulling the sector forward. And now, gentlemen of More Country, you come to tell these workers that they have been trying to get the sector forward for two years, that from 2025 they will not be able to advertise what they produce, that for ten years they will not be able to advertise. Then you will see how factories and industries have to be closed down and you will manifest and want employees to have a job, but you will have some of the blame. The worst thing is that your proposal is harmful not only to the thousands of workers who depend on the car sector in our country, because it would destroy jobs for all producers, but also to advertising agencies and communication departments working to promote vehicles. In fact, in your own explanatory statement, you admit that the car industry is the one that invests the most in advertising in our country, with a contribution of more than 500 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we share the commitment to decarbonisation - of course it is - and the need to move towards a mobile park with a greater presence of electric vehicles, but let us bear in mind that we cannot harm employment in this sector. If they can produce up to 2035, they can promote up to 2035. A real bet for electric mobility to be a reality accessible to the whole population is invariably two things, and I am already telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that none of them has anything to do with banning advertising. Firstly, we must bet on recharging infrastructure and not just removal of administrative barriers. And secondly, the electricity consumed by electric vehicles comes from broadcasting generation technologies. Electrical mobility is not going to meet its decarbonisation targets, so we have to go step by step and give time for the energy transition and the industrial transition that is being paired up to have time to accommodate. We cannot put more stones on the road to the industrial sectors, and less to the automotive sector, which continues to suffer more and more every day. In Citizens we give priority to promoting these two aspects, in addition to prioritising aid both in R & D and for the purchase of electric vehicles; to reduce tax burdens and facilitate self-consumption, optimizing the use of recovery funds. For all these things they will have us next door; to put more problems in the car sector, I'm sorry but we won't be. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u112	Thank you very much, President. The Spanish Climate Change and Energy Transition Act provides for ICE light vehicles to be discontinued in 2040 and the European Commission has even proposed to do so in 2035. Even so, it is only a preliminary proposal for the moment despite the whole process of marking specific dates. In the process of the Climate Change Act, our group was very clear about the fact that we want to go beyond the decarbonization commitments that were the law itself. In this respect, our amendments were intended, on the one hand, to move forward in order to achieve a 30% share of electric vehicles in the state fleet of vehicles and 80% in public vehicles by 2030. [[The Lord]] On the other hand, we intended to include light passenger cars and commercial vehicles, but also heavy vehicles, in the decarbonisation strategy of 2050. Finally, we wanted to extend the measures for the mitigation of emissions from mobility to the municipalities of more than 20 000 inhabitants under specific circumstances. Therefore, our commitment to the decarbonisation strategy as far as the vehicle fleet is concerned is very clear, but we also have very clear that the energy transition and decarbonisation must be accompanied by an industrial transition; I repeat, an industrial transition that involves a real conversion, as some colleagues have commented, and even profound changes in the same production model. Therefore, they are not minor words. That is not done in a day and will have an immense socio-economic impact, as has also been noted here. At the moment, it implies a gradual and guided process of transformation of the assembly chain as a more immediate measure and, in rebound, in the network of indirect companies working for these factories. This already implies a change, a transformation and a direct impact on the economy and a social sector. Therefore, both standards, that of energy transformation and that of industrial transformation, should go hand in hand. Wanting to advance the advertising ban may become inconsistent with these deadlines if they are only sought in an indirect way. Therefore, we cannot confuse the sector and, in this regard, we must be very firm with the agreements adopted so as not to create confusion. On the other hand, it is wrong to mix climate change, pollution and new vehicles with health. Firstly, CO2, which is primarily responsible for climate change, is not considered a contaminant by international bodies, beginning with European legislation. Health problems are limited to particles and other emissions. Well, the problem of air quality is precisely caused by old combustion vehicles, not new ones. The current European legislation is constantly being revised to ensure that emission levels do not exceed the limits of respect for health and air quality. This is a subject I wanted to reschedule. Prohibiting the advertising of new vehicles could be counterproductive if the only thing it does is penalize the renovation of the park and thereby the improvement of polluting emissions. It is true that as progress is being made in replacing traditional combustion vehicles with electric vehicles, advertising will have to vary its objectives. I am sure of that, and I am also sure that this will happen within the framework of the industrial conversion strategy itself. Fortunately, the transformation of the energy model today is a totally irreversible fact - totally irreversible - and we must work towards the implementation of international agreements and the objectives established in a coordinated manner, avoiding essentialisms and frivolities. It is a sufficiently important, priority and strategic issue to enter into frivolous and essentialist measures, especially in view of the fact that the energy transition is going to bring about irreversible and far-reaching changes in the social and economic spheres. In this sense, as I said before, it is a great bet to transform even the productive model in depth, but it needs its time, it needs its guidelines, it needs its rhythm. We therefore share the project's philosophy in general, but we do not agree in principle with the approaches of trying to force earlier criteria and timetables through advertising. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u113	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u114	Good afternoon. Mr Errejón's party is bringing us an initiative on banning the advertising of polluting vehicles. Spain is a leader in youth unemployment in Europe; it has an insurmountable public debt and an outpouring of inflation; a fiscal persecution of Spaniards who are having a very bad time and who cannot pay the autonomous quota or the bill for light, gas, gasoline or diesel; closure of businesses and mass layoffs; relocation; energy dependence; attacks on tourism, the primary sector, industry... But in the explanatory statement of this initiative they say: Combating climate change is the fundamental pillar that must guide the actions emanating from this transformative process. The fundamental pillar should be to implement effective policies that guarantee the prosperity of the Spaniards and not the new climate religion that the globalist elites seek to impose - those who travel on a private jet to talk about climate change - and that everyone buys, except VOX. [[applause]] We have a government that has incorporated communists, separatists and philotetras into the leadership of the state; that tramples on our Constitution, violating rights and freedoms with the states of alarm and the closure of Congress; that confronts and ruins the Spaniards; that comes to terms with lies; that threatens Spain. And you, Mr. Errejon, are your crutch and accomplice. So when in his initiative he comes to say that there should be no room for the use of fossil fuels, say, for example, to Laureano, who is early every day to serve his livestock and his land; land that works hard on the Palentine mountain thanks to his tractor; tractor that works on fossil fuel, in case the ecologists of carpet do not know how tractors work. [[Applauds]] By the way, I recommend seeing the documentary La España silenced, which will bring you closer to reality and you will also meet Andrea, who in Soria takes her car to go to the car factory where she and her mother work; a factory which will close to continue with the ideological delusions made of green sending to misery young and not so young. Spain is closing factories as a result of the 2030 Agenda and climate impositions, while Asia wins the race and gets rich. Stop complicating the lives of the Spaniards. Of course, air quality needs to be improved, but there is no need for a new ban. There is no need for a new blow to a sector that is strategic for Spain. His friends from the government have already beaten him; they beat him when they attack the diesel, when they raise tuition taxes or when they come late in the aid of the PERT VEC, the one in which they have left many SMEs out. And now they're looking for a new blow with a new ban. Mr Errejón, there are many reasons to vote against your initiative. Spain is experiencing an economic and health crisis and the priority is not to ban advertising, a sector in which thousands of self-employed people work, which has great creatives and in which we are international references. In Spain, the automotive sector is the first contributor to the trade balance, accounts for 10% of GDP and generates two million fixed and quality direct and indirect jobs. In addition, stop demonizing, because in this sector we talk about manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, dealers, workshops, components, not counting communication agencies and media, and everyone is threatened by this initiative. [[Applauds]] It is also incongruent to advance the deadlines set by national and European standards, because Spain already has a very demanding regulation and the electric vehicle has a very high price. I mean, I don't know how people with lower incomes are gonna do it. Are you worried about emissions? So work on policies that allow vehicle renewal. This will also help to reduce emissions and improve road safety, because Spain has one of the oldest car parks in Europe. We are not going to allow them to come and tell us how we have to move, what to eat or how we have to think, nor to tell us what the rise in taxes and prohibitions are the solution. And you're not the solution because you're all part of the problem. And, as part of the problem, I guarantee you that VOX is here to take away your faces - that we do not deny - and to work every minute of our life to give back to the Spaniards the hope and the future that you have all taken away from them. [[applause]] We will work with our Spanish agenda always in defense of the interests of the nation and rebuild everything they have destroyed sooner than later. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u115	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u116	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. Today's GNP brought to plenary by the More Country-Equo Parliamentary Group really consists of a further ban, a ban on achieving the decarbonisation objectives set by Spain and the European Union. This is a measure that goes beyond the widespread consensus on the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, which is not included in the National Energy and Climate Plan nor is it reflected in European legislation or in the Fit for 55 proposals. In this GNP, a reference is made to climate change, to air quality, but arguments are mixed from the first, which concerns CO2, with the second, about other gases, and it is a mixture of barbecues with merinas, Mrs Sabanes, honestly I tell you. It is a mere ban, aware of the high impact it will have on the media. I would advise you to clarify concepts, you who are the greenest in the world; to go to the revalidate, to the 1st of EGB or wherever you have to go, but first to clarify the concepts, because being the greenest and mixing these concepts has fabric, Mrs. Sabanes! The justification for this GNP also does not include any reference to economic aspects, employment or production aspects; you simply ignore them. We are presenting a GNP, which will be discussed tomorrow in the Committee on Industry, precisely for that purpose, in order to assess the impact of the government's climate policies on our country's industry precisely because they are policies like those you present here, which today do not have an assessment for industry, in general, Mrs Sabanes. And now I will begin to explain some of the reasons why we, the People's Parliamentary Group, are going to reject this GNP. Firstly, as has already been said, the date agreed in Spain is being ignored. Our country already has a regulation, such as the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, which marks the end of sales of these vehicles in 2040, and on the same line is the proposal of the European Commission Fit for 55, which points out the year 2035. Anyway, Mrs. Sabanes, it's a preliminary date. It is clear that this GNP is totally incongruous by moving ahead with deadlines set by national and European standards, and that it intends to do so indirectly. The sector is making every effort to comply with this path: two hundred electrified models on the market, but they find it very difficult to market them. As has already been said, there are many people who cannot buy these cars, and you seem to be obviating it. It makes no sense that, with a recently published standard marking a temporary milestone, you want to advance it in fifteen years. The ban on advertising an economic activity that will continue to be necessary has also been pointed out. What kind of technology will 60% of cars be covered if it is not with internal combustion vehicles, Mrs Sabanes? This GNP lacks all logic. And one thing that hurts me and worries me very much is that you demonise the automotive sector, tractor sector of other strategic sectors in the Spanish economy. Mrs. Sabanes, what are you doing? [[Applauds]] We have already talked about everything that this sector has done during the pandemic in this country; it has been said by other colleagues and I subscribe to it even though I will not repeat it again, and it seems incredible to me that you are doing this. You attack employment directly; you, who will have to defend it. The two million direct and indirect jobs are not only about manufacturing or selling, but also about advertising and marketing. And it is inconsistent with the search for improved air quality, which, as has also been said, has nothing to do with climate change or CO2. The vehicles that pollute are the old, not the new, even if they are of other kind of combustion. Finally, it is inconsistent with the approach to low-emission areas in cities, and we have also seen this in the Committee on Road Safety, to which I am a party. What the low-emission zones are looking for is to attack the old vehicle, not to prohibit the citizen from travelling in new vehicles that are much less polluting. Mrs Sabanes, you say no, but yes, and in the municipalities you have it clear; I don't know if you rule in many, but you have it clear. I would also like to focus on its limitations and prohibitions on existing ones, rather than analysing efficiency and encouraging users.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u117	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u118	It's over, President. Therefore, it does not seem the best policy to achieve these objectives. For example, there are very obvious shortcomings, such as Spain's delay...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u119	Your Honor, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u120	Mrs Sabanes, we are not going to support this GNP because we believe that the road is not a new ban and less demonising a sector like the one in this country's car industry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u121	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes, does your group accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u122	No, Mr. President; we thank you, but no.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u124	We are now discussing the motion for urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on measures to mitigate the crazy costs of industrial production, to regain competitiveness and to defend employment, with particular reference to the growing uncertainty for different sectors, including that of the electro-intensive industry, as well as the disappearance of the aluminium plants in Asturias and Galicia. As the author of the initiative, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. The operative part of this motion resulting from the question to the Government that the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism responded last Wednesday addresses some of the major emergencies for Spanish industry and also for specific territories. As I pointed out before the plenary of the House, the calls for attention to the future of industry not only come from the political opposition, but are also strongly pointing out its direct protagonists. I made specific reference in the debate of my parliamentary initiative to the public call for aid made on 9 February, that is, just two weeks ago, the Alliance for the Competitiveness of Spanish Industry, a very important set of strategic industrial sectors that gives employment to 15% of the employed population, which means almost three million stable and qualified jobs. This Alliance for Competitiveness, which can be attributed to an excellent knowledge of the situation facing Spanish industry, is at the expense of energy prices, as it is also constantly reiterated in the debates from this rostrum, an impact that draws us away from Europe and notes the inadequacy of the measures adopted by the Executive of Pedro Sánchez. I have summarized the broad demand for this set of energy industrial sectors at a first point in the motion, urging the Government to respond to the recent request of the Alliance for the Competitiveness of Spanish Industry with regard to the high prices of electricity and gas and, consequently, to bring Spain closer to Europe in the energy field, to implement new measures, having not achieved the current desired effect in the industrial field, and to accept urgently additional measures in view of the expectation that the high prices of electricity and gas markets will continue in 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to these very important and decisive questions for the present and the immediate future, I would like to make it clear that the representative of the Government did not say a single word in the course of the inquiry, as if it were not the matter with her. Nor is it new, the responsible for Industry never wants to know anything about what has been requested of the Council of Ministers by the sectors affected by the energy crisis that Spain is suffering from at the hands of Pedro Sánchez, among them, automotive, refining, paper, chemistry, pharmacy, food, beverages, cement and iron and steel. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's lack of commitment poses a certain risk to industrial relocations, that is to say, the flight of production to other countries where costs are not as far from being penalised as in Spain. This is the case in Germany and France, which have much more favourable energy differentials than in Spain and, if there is little, State aid that is multiplying in several times those granted by our Government, which has been proclaiming so far that they were not permitted by the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the second point of the motion refers, of course, to the fiasco of the Statute of the electric intensive consumer, which has been in force since the end of 2021, because the basic electricity-intensive industry needs better measures to ensure effective economic competitiveness in the industry and trade sector in Spain. The parliamentary initiative also refers to the situation resulting from the supply freeze, which has affected the automotive sector in particular and which has as collateral damages the unfair application of the increase in registration tax, which entered into force on 1 January 2022 but will apply to buyers of the past year who have not yet received their vehicle, which the Government itself estimates at 250 000. Also, speaking of gas and its importance in the energy transition and uniquely in many industrial processes, I refer to the parliamentary initiative, as I have reiterated in other debates from this very rostrum, to the inexplicable paralysis of the regasification plant built for almost nine years in the Asturian port space of El Musel, Gijón, which is without service. I should like to point out that in this important port of the State there are a number of glaring breaches that have a major social, industrial and economic significance, as in the case of the convention signed in 2005 to provide it with adequate road links that facilitate the transport of goods by road and eliminate heavy and dangerous road traffic in one of the most populated areas of Gijón, since the Government of Pedro Sánchez and that of the Principality, which presides Adrian Barbón, have crushed the convention. I would also like to point out the suspension for seven years of the motorway of the sea between this port and French Brittany, which is an important loss in the options of international shipping of industrial production, with which the rest of the autonomous communities of the Cantabrian region do have. Finally, the motion refers to what is known as the Alcoa case, a sale operation protected by the Ministry of Industry which, in addition to being a clamorous deception for Galicia and Asturias, has significance on the employment for the disappearance of hundreds of jobs, on the economy of large population regions and on the production of aluminum in Spain. The Alcoa case is now clarified in the courts after police intervention in both factories. Thinking of the workers, he called on the government to seek in-depth solutions that would allow the continuity of aluminium production in Spain at the Galician and Asturias plants, considering the temporary support of SEPI to guarantee the jobs. Mr President, you end by rejecting the amendment tabled by Mr Rego, Member of the BNG, who uses in his wording a terminology that does not correspond to the ideas that I try to defend, that is, that I do not drink with replacing the name of Spain with the nationalist vocabulary, which relegates it to the Spanish State. However, Mr President, I would ask you to be separated by points at the time of the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u126	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, for the defence of the amendments made and which will also fix a position at this time, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u127	Thank you, President. The electro-intensive industry is an essential sector in Galicia, which in a low-industrialised country like ours generates 5000 direct jobs and several thousand more indirect jobs, with a relevant presence in regions such as A Mariña, Ferrolo Costa da Morte, and for this reason it is also a fundamental concern for the BNG, because it also knows a situation of instability and crisis almost permanent in relation to a determining element, such as the cost of electricity, which drives us to give this debate and bring proposals for a solution in a recurring way. Today, it is clear that the Statute of the electric intensive consumer did not serve as a solution to the sector. Unfortunately, several proposals aimed at a more effective and ambitious mechanism, including that of the BNG, were not heard, and the recognition of its limitation requires further action. Therefore, in addition to reviewing and amending the statute, action must be taken to control the price of electricity. It is clear that neither patches nor good words are enough; it is not enough to say that we must approach Europe. That is why the Galego Nationalist Block proposes to change the regulation of the electricity sector to put energy production at the service of the public interest and social and economic development. On the other hand, the situation in the aluminium sector in Galicia and Asturias, to which the Member of the Forum refers, makes decisive public action essential. With Alcoa in stand by, mainly because of the government's refusal to intervene, the moment Alu Iberiana lives, in competition with creditors, requires more than ever public intervention to save the activity and the totality of the jobs. That is why we are proposing again, as we will be doing tomorrow in the Committee on Industry, to incorporate this measure into the resolution, because there will only be a real solution to the problem there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u128	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u129	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. With regard to the third point of this questionable motion, there is a significant fact that I would like to stress. It was thanks to an amendment by PeCAT to the draft law on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud that the increase in the registration tax for all new vehicles registered from the date of entry into force of this law until 31 December 2021 was reversed. Our initial amendment was to maintain the tax, with the reversal of the tax indefinitely, as was approved in Congress, although it was finally only achieved for much of the year 2021. When we tabled the amendment there was still no supply crisis in the car industry, as happened a posteriori with the lack of chips. And it should be remembered that this industry has two particularities in relation to the issue we are dealing with: on the one hand, it works on the Just in time production model, with which its supply stocks are very low, the car manufacturers stopped their production and, therefore, the delivery of the vehicles was delayed, and, on the other hand, the vast majority of the vehicles are produced once the buyer has reserved them, all of which has led to about 250,000 vehicles reserved during the 2021 fiscal year having to be registered, so that they cannot benefit from a lower registration tax. In our view, the spirit of the law includes all vehicles reserved since the entry into force of Law 11/2021, whether they were registered in 2021 or not. In introducing the amendment and a posteriori, in the parliamentary procedure of this law, as I have said before, it was not known that there would be that lack of chips that has forced the production of vehicles to stop, which is why the law did not provide for this exception, although its spirit. In conclusion, as it could not otherwise be, we are fully in favour of this point of the initiative. And with regard to the first two points, we also agree. Industry plays a very important role in a country's wealth, produces higher value-added goods, workers' wages are often higher than in other sectors and it is the private sector that generates more innovation. In an open economy, having a higher electricity and gas price than our neighbours generates a major competitive disadvantage for industry. That is why it is essential to review the energy bill, improving efficiency and savings in production processes and reducing energy costs for a sector highly regulated by the State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u130	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u131	Thank you, President. Of course, my group understands the concern for industry and we share, Mr Martínez Oblanca, that there is no commitment to industrial policy and that only patchwork has recently been used, basically from the ecological transition, to reduce energy costs so that companies do not lose any more competitiveness. However, we also differ in terms of the approaches that you are making to us today, because we are proposing a series of generic and dispersed measures that we do not believe will give industry the possibility of reducing its energy costs substantially, simply because there is no concrete and mixed industry with domestic consumers, while there is another series of measures for a very specific industry of autonomous communities. One thing is clear, and it is that the high costs of gas and electricity are wasting the competitiveness of the industry in general, and therefore, as you say, the Competitiveness Alliance has put on the table the need for the Government to take additional measures in view of this persistence of very high prices in the electricity market and in the gas industry, which has also been aggravated by the absence of long-term contracts, PPPs at a fixed and reasonable price, so we should put to the industry, on the one hand, that coordination with the Transitional Ministry to try to reconcile the energy-climate and energy-industry binomial and that concrete measures are being taken to reduce manageable aspects of regulated activities that fall within its competence, as well as measures related to the distribution activity that the alliance, among others, has put on the table, or those of that February letter to which you referred, measures that are much more concrete. It is true that, in the energy field, industry had placed its hopes in different mechanisms to reduce the price of electricity, such as the Statute of the electric intensive consumer and closed distribution networks, measures which have been limited and limiting, which, of course, have not been able to provide solutions to the industry and which we therefore believe must be improved, restructured or, if necessary, approved, like that of closed distribution networks, although perhaps in the latter case with a much broader view. She also did not talk about urging the government in this motion to compensate for up to 25% of CO2, to which the minister referred, and it was an amendment agreed by this group in the Climate Change Act. And I am surprised that he did not mention the primary energy auctions that the Government was preparing and that the Alliance has also requested. You have not mentioned this, when they are supposed to try to solve a competition problem so that the future market has greater liquidity and this can have an impact on the price of electricity. We share the substance of your motion, but not the measures put forward, because it is a very generic approach, as I said, and it will hardly have an impact on industry with the immediacy that is currently required. We'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u132	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u133	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating this motion as a result of urgent questioning on an issue of enormous importance to our economy, such as the situation of industry, aggravated by the extremely high energy costs. From my parliamentary group we agree with the proponent that the basic high-power industry should be given greater support through a more ambitious development of the Statute for E-Intensive Consumers. Our bet, however, is to grant 80% exemption from electric tolls, as has been the case in Germany or France for a long time. And we are short of other countries, such as Portugal, where a 94% reduction in access rates has been approved until 2022. We are talking about a sector, that of the electro-intensive companies, which generates half of our country's gross domestic product and employs more than 2.8 million people. We also agree, ladies and gentlemen, to bring Spain closer to Europe in terms of energy and to implement new measures which attempt, on the one hand, to fix what has not been achieved so far by the measures promoted by the Government and, on the other, to adopt new measures, in view of the worrying forecasts of high prices in the coming months. Since the beginning of the price escalation, from Citizens we have been pointing out that our country is at a disadvantage to our European neighbours. If we look at the data of the Association of Large-Electro-Intensive Energy Consumption Companies, these costs are 20% lower in Germany and up to 60% lower in France. Why is this happening? This abysmal difference comes in an unabsorbed proportion of regulated prices and charges and taxes. That is where the Government must start and really continue if it is to achieve a rapid, real and sustainable decline in the electricity bill and the electro-intensive industry. But, let us go further, we believe that a new form of ERT should be established associated with the situation of energy prices for those companies whose production is compromised by high electricity prices. From Citizens, we urge the Government to ensure the viability, continuity and profitability of the electro-intensive industry. To this end, special attention needs to be paid to two vital factors for the future of the sector: on the one hand, data centres, a fundamental infrastructure of the digitalised economy, which have the electricity bill as the main expenditure, and on the other hand, the penetration of green hydrogen as the only sustainable alternative for many electrointensive industries. The development of the green hydrogen industry depends on the existence of a consumer guarantee and in Asturias, for example, there is one. ArcelorMittal plans to invest with public aid $1 billion to decarbonise its Gijón steel mill to replace the process of manufacturing steel in high heat furnace with a direct reduction of iron ore by green hydrogen, which could be in service and operating in 2025. A supply of renewable fuel in industrial quantities will be necessary and in Asturias there are projects to produce and transport it. However, in order to attract these enormous investments, the Government has to abandon its path of improvisation and market intervention, and does nothing but push Spain away from these objectives and away from major investments as well. They speak in their motion, ladies and gentlemen, of the need to bring Spain closer to Europe in terms of energy and to prevent the prices of electricity and gas markets from continuing, in the year 2022, rising. We can't agree more. That is why we insist on the measures that we have been introducing since my group and which the Government has merely disregarded or directly vetoed. We have called for the development of a water use plan and a general study on the extension of the useful life of nuclear power plants, the abolition of the increase in the registration tax since 1 January 2022, the reform of the IRPF Act and the company tax to introduce a general deduction as extraordinary costs for electricity costs, for example, as well as the prolongation of VAT and value added tax reductions in electricity production. In short, ladies and gentlemen, our group will vote in favour of this motion as a result of questioning because we believe and share the diagnosis and the need to face a major problem for our economy, although we demand greater ambition from the Government. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u134	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u135	Good afternoon, good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with this motion following an inquiry by the Joint Group, by Mr Oblanca, by Forum Asturias, with some surprise; surprise not so much with the issues that it deals with, most of them relevant issues, most of them issues that we have also discussed in this House on successive occasions, but not so much with the issues, but with how it deals with them. It is a motion that even expressing legitimate concerns - which in many cases can even be shared in the diagnosis, although obviously not in the way of intervening on them or in who are responsible and responsible for these issues - however, it makes them a kind of unsustainable legislative device where issues that have nothing to do with each other are mixed together. We also do not know why this is done, if it is basically for lack of rigour, which we do not think is so knowing Mr Oblanca, or if it is because of the will to employ real problems - I would say that everyone, but if not, most inherited from the harmful industrial policy of the People's Party that Mr Oblanca supported for years - as political weapons against the action of this executive. A motion in which, for example, we are talking about bringing Spain closer to Europe in terms of energy, and this is being said and done by those who have supported each of the energy policy measures of the governments of the People's Party that have done so much damage to our energy sector - by the way, this is being said by those who also voted against withdrawing the sun tax -. On the other hand, we are talking about the Statute of the Electro-Intensive Consumer, and it is said that it was supported by a Government that filled its mouth for a long time by talking about the Statute of the Electro-Intensive Industries, but that was not able to carry it forward and that did not come out until this Government arrived. Then, to our surprise, we are talking about clearly legitimate and secure questions that are questionable, such as the private vehicle and tax compensations to individuals. As I say, questionable matter, but you will understand that I tell you that you do not seem to have much room in this motion. Next, he talks about a regasifier plant - beyond other debates that are relevant, such as whether or not it is relevant in the current energy and geopolitical context to address the issue of regasifiers and gas - which has also been declared illegal by Justice because of its proximity to population centres. And finally he ends up talking about something that, obviously, he has been asking us, we have been worried for a long time, as is the production of primary aluminium, and particularly two plants, the Alu Ibérica plant in A Coruña and Avilés, the ancient Alcoa. With all due respect, this motion, as we have been told precisely by representatives of the workers whom we have consulted on it these days, seems to us to be a sign of opportunism, but, whatever it may be, our parliamentary group wants, in order to finish, to make something very clear. After many years... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u136	Wait a minute, Your Honor. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u137	He said that from the Confederal Group of the United Nations We want to make something very clear. After many years of struggle by Alu Ibérica's staff in Avilés and A Coruña, after a fraudulent sale of both plants to some scammers - today condemned - and that the plants are maintained these months, and still today, at the hands of the workers, after all this we cannot allow two competitive plants of production of primary aluminum-matter essential for the energy transition - declared essential in the pandemic and that they give work and support to more than eight hundred families in A Coruña and Avilés, to remain on the road. Therefore, and in order to finish, we clearly ask - and we do so on the workers' side - for public intervention, perhaps temporary, by SEPI to ensure that competitive plants, that plants with buyers for their workload, do not stop producing at a key time to take care of and strengthen our strategic companies. All support to Alu Ibérica workers from A Coruña and Avilés who are calling for public intervention by SEPI. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u138	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u139	Good night. We discussed an initiative that is quite interesting, although it mixes quite a few ideas that seem in themselves different, as it speaks of the costs of light and gas, of the electro-intensive industry, of the registration tax, of a regasifier located in the port of El Musel, in Gijón, as well as of the aluminum processing plants, the ancient Alcoa. These are issues that may seem very different from each other, but they have a thread: industry. [[The lady]] The way in which the present group has expressed this, even the groups which have intervened in the afternoon and in the sitting, also show a fairly clear thing: we are all aware that Spain and Spanish industry are going through absolutely critical and highly complicated moments. The present is very dark for Spanish industry. However - and then I will explain myself - there is hope. In my view, on the issue of light and gas, the nuclear point of that price of light and gas has not been addressed. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u140	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u141	The reason is nothing other than the radical and irrational policies of this Government with regard to climate religion. They believe that, on the basis of these climate dogmas which, by the way, are imposed by the Spanish electorate, not by the interests of Spain, but that they are imposed, basically, by the European Commission, they believe that everything is good and everything can be justified. Because of these policies that light and gas are being applied, they are at the prices they are at. [[Applauds]] So, businessmen who have their restaurant, know that this bill of light that is multiplying is the fault of the policies of the Socialist Party, supported by Podemos, erratic and absolutely unbridled with regard to that climate religion. Mr. Farmer, you have to keep the milk you work with, with which you earn bread every day, you have to keep it in those huge refrigerators that consume a lot of electric energy, if you can't survive and can't carry your business forward, know that it's because of that Socialist Party and Podemos [[Applauds]] The electro-intensive industry is absolutely related to this issue, an industry in which, at normal times - I speak of a concrete example, of Asturias, which I have been able to analyse - 45% of its expenditure corresponds to electricity when around 50 euros per megawatt/hour is around. Today the light is around 200 euros megawatt/hour. That is to say, what used to be 50% is now around 70% of its expenditure. This implies that this industry, which is the same as Alcoa, for example, is no longer at all profitable. What's going on? That the industry, necessarily, closes and the Spaniards go to the street, and this industry automatically moves to India or China, countries with a much more lax regulation and which does benefit its workers. They're talking enrollment tax. Well, it's just that the tuition tax has been increased with a legal trifle. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u142	Excuse me a second, Mr. Figaredo. I beg your silence, please. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u143	I understand that there are very nervous parliamentary groups, but nothing is going to be resolved here today. [[Rumors.-Laughter and applause]] Enrolment tax has been raised by means of a Socialist Party triquiñuela, which starts in January. All those who bought their vehicle during this year and who did not receive it will wonder why they did not receive it. They have not received it because the Socialist Party and Podemos have dismantled a large part of the automobile industry. What's going on? That the cars are no longer manufactured entirely in Spain, but are manufactured outside and the Spaniards have not yet received them. Whoever bought his vehicle a year earlier and received it today is going to pay that tuition tax, which has gone up who? The Socialist Party, indeed. El Musel's regasifier, a fairly important energy infrastructure, has cost some €400 million. It began to be built in 2008 and has not yet come into operation; a real nonsense. That 400 million euros, by the way, is about what will be raised more with that increase in the enrolment tax, that is, what you are told is used to waste it on infrastructures that do not start up to work. But I say there's a future. Why? Because the Socialist Party, which is the cause of this ruin, has lost in these last elections in Castile and León - the thermometer put on the citizenry - 25% of its votes, has lost one in every four votes it received in the year 2019, a genuine electoral debacle that shows that the Spaniards are seeing what there is. [[applause]] If we extrapolate this result at the national level you would remain, out of the 120 seats you have today, in 82 seats, the worst result of your history. So, Spaniards, calm down, because there's still hope. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Gazquez Collado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Just two weeks ago we discussed energy and industrial policy here, and today we are doing it again. In that case, it was specifically about the hyper-intensive industry. From here it came out with very majority support- with 274 votes yes - that the issue will be addressed and will be legislated accordingly. So far, there has been no single movement of the ministries concerned or in the Council of Ministers. He was a paripé of Asturian socialism and the two Asturian communists defending here the same thing they later deny him in the Council of Ministers. We insisted on what we moved them 15 days ago. Employers and industrial workers in Asturias and the rest of Spain basically ask for three things: to reduce administrative barriers, to reduce their high taxation and a competitive electricity tariff compared to their peers in Europe and the rest of the world. By the way, electricity and gas whose price is not only bleeding our businesses, our citizens in their homes. It's amazing how isolated and alien to the reality that all of you live, and they do nothing to solve it. I understand that in the Moncloa or on the super cool floor of "Yolanda", 400 square meters, you don't notice what you have to pay for the heating, but outside it's very cold and citizens can't anymore. Electricity, gas, inflation, rising interest rates, a dangerous cocktail coming on us. In addition, the industrial and energy issue, in particular, is led by two ministers - with all due respect - examples of incompetence and inefficiency. The one that really commands, Minister Ribera, does it from fundamentalism, leading us to an energy transition without direction or alternative solutions. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u146	Quiet, please. Mrs. Gázquez, one moment, I'm sorry to interrupt you. I'm asking for silence. [[Pause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u147	Thank you, President. I was referring to the two ministers in the branch. Frankly, we have had bad luck: Minister Ribera, by fundamentalist, without energy transition, without direction and without alternative solutions, and the Minister of Industry herself - I also regret to say this, but it is a synonym of futility - annulled by the Minister of Transition, who is not able or able to exhaust her budgets. We don't even talk about the partners on the far left anymore. The intervention of the representative of Podemos was very curious. Better not to go to Asturias, better, because the truth is that the reception would be quite ungrateful, even by the members of the Workers' Commissions themselves, who do not know how they can carry this energy policy We can. The reality is that every day we get up with new negative data. Yesterday, for example, with the fall in the industrial output index in December, as we fell as Europe and the euro area went up. Let us tighten it up again, because there are clear lines that the Government should set as an industrial road map: an energy policy that makes industrial production viable and profitable; taking advantage of the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism To create wealth throughout the industrial fabric, throughout the chain - a report by the Cogiti, the Council of Economists and UCAM two weeks ago found that 74% of the sector felt that the funds would not reach SMEs, that is, that the auxiliary industries, from which the major industries have to supply, would not receive them - and that the dependence on strategic products and raw materials, not only on pharmaceuticals, but also on chips. The European Union has announced that it will mobilise more than €43 billion to manufacture 20% of the world chip market in Europe. This would logically reduce the strong dependence on this product that Europe has. We should make sure that part of this investment comes to Spain, that we must fight and that we must achieve, that is the objective, that is the challenge. We must not be mere figures in Europe, and we must take advantage of our strategic geographical situation and our infrastructures to provide a gas input into Europe from the south. In other words, to launch the necessary gas interconnection Spain-France that would avoid Russia's dependence and put into value a fundamental asset of our country, such as having the largest network of regasifiers in Europe and a network of first-rate pipelines. This is truly geopolitical, a real country policy, which they must practice, not those banalities to which they devote all their time and maintain the Spaniards. In short - and it ended with the same proposal two weeks ago - change their industrial and energy strategy, mark a feasible, competitive route, and they will have us by their side. Of course, we will support our Forum colleague's motion. Work, be in government, work, legislate and bet, really, on the industry in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr García Morís has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in her urgent appeal to the Minister of Industry, Mrs Reyes Maroto, she has already made a negative description of Asturias, which is unconstructive and not objective, something which, on the other hand, has us used to. You do not just understand that you can make opposition without having to talk badly about Asturias, its potentialities and its strengths in industrial matters, but you do not, and the rest of the right, as we have just checked, either. Despite the difficulties, the data are known to all, although it is clear that the right will never use them in positive, but quite the opposite. The reality is that these data show facts and not opinions, and clearly indicate that the Spanish and Asturian industry recover, with an increase in industrial production by 2021 of more than 7%, the largest increase since the 1990s. The same applies to the number of jobs in the industrial sector since March last year, recovering pre-pandemic levels. In this context, Asturias grew twice as much as the national average, 15%. It's data and not opinions, gentlemen of the right. So a little more sense of country wouldn't hurt them, for our companies, but also for their workers and for their workers. Industry is one of Asturias's hallmarks of identity, it is a basic sector to tackle the digital transition of the economy and the energy transition, but also for social cohesion, because it is a sector capable of generating stable employment. The Government is heavily involved in the process of industrial transformation towards a more sustainable and digital model, because we are talking about the construction of the future. The other day I gave him an example of President Pedro Sánchez's visit to announce Arcelor's project for decarbonization. Business, territory and governments hand in hand for the recovery and modernization of our industry and our economy. More than EUR 1 billion for the decarbonisation of Arcelor, in partnership with other industries for the production of hydrogen, something that you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do not refer to and that you could well put into value, not to mention the obstacles that you are putting European funds inside and outside our country. They come here to make a disloyal populism, because they know who is responsible for the situation of the Alu Iberian plants, as they know that the government works with the competent administrations to achieve an industrial and viable solution for the Avilés and A Coruña plants, and that in the face of an alternative of possible future the minister has committed herself and has pointed out that all possible instruments will be put in place to maintain the industrial activity in the territories, in full coordination with the autonomous governments. The electro-intensive industry is strategic and we have demonstrated it in many measures to support the sector. We are aware of the impact of the rise in energy and you know that we promote the status of electricity, which you criticize, but that it has given certainty and security to companies about energy costs and other instruments. Commitments and commitments also made through budgets, such as CO2 compensation from the electro-intensive industry, which rose from EUR 6 million to EUR 179 million. Isn't that for you industrial policy, gentlemen of the right? You have never considered supporting the general budgets. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u150	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u151	We'd like to know what solutions they've put on the table. No solution, no total absence of industrial policy. [[Applauds]] The establishment of these initial measures does not prevent the Government from establishing new forms of support in the future, provided that they are compatible with the European Union's regulatory framework. Minister Reyes Maroto announced last week the possibility of approving a PARTE to support the decarbonization process of the electrointensive industry, which focuses on industrial projects of steel and aluminum and helps to have competitive prices and investments in energy efficiency. This possibility has been well received in the sector; it seems that it has not been so among the right-wing parties. Businesses and workers in the sector are very clear about the political differences when one governs and when others do, when we do it with industrial policy, with projects, thinking about the sector and thinking about its transformation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Mr Martínez Oblanca, do you accept any amendments to those tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u153	No, Madam President. I would be grateful if the vote could be taken separately on the three points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u154	Thank you very much, that will be done in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in four minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We vote first of all to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, which regulates the extinction of the right to private use of water by granting the hydraulic public domain for the industrial use of electric power production, and the assumption of hydroelectric plants by the public entity Spanish Energy Production. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 7 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 53 plus 5 telematics votes, 58; against, 273 plus 2 telematics votes, 275; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u156	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, REFORMING ORGANICAL LAW 2/1982, 12 MAY, THE COURT OF ACCOUNTS AND THE COURT OF AUDITORS 7/1988, 5 APRIL, OPERATION OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS. [[File number 122/000197]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u157	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Group, on the reform of Organic Law 2/1982 of 12 May, the Court of Auditors and Act 7/1988 of 5 April, on the operation of the Court of Auditors. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 7 telematics votes, 337; 66 plus 5 telematics votes, 71; 263 plus 2 telematics votes, 265; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-22-CD220222.u158	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Good night, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night.
