ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. [[Rumors]] We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias to declare the strategic character of the industry of very high electricity consumption based in Spain. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House. Be very welcome at three o'clock, doña Dolores Carcedo García, doña María Teresa Mallada de Castro and doña Ángela Rosa Vallina de la Noval. [[Rumors]] I ask you for a little silence so that we can begin with the presentation of the initiative and the debate on the agenda item before us. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Dolores Carcedo García. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u2	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In a global economic scenario...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u3	Excuse me a second, Mrs. Carcedo. If you wish, in the rostrum you can remove the mask.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u4	As I said, in a global economic scenario of constant volatility and constant transformation, giving the industry of very high electricity consumption - essential in Asturias and Spain - a strategic character and a specific status in the face of the costs of electricity that undermine its competitiveness is to bet decisively on the industrial future of our country. In its communication A new model of industry for Europe the European Commission leaves no doubt: energy-intensive industries are indispensable for Europe's economy. Protecting this industry is the aim of the proposed law of the General Council of the Principality of Asturias, which today comes to this House for consideration. We are talking about raw materials and equipment industries in sectors such as steel, metallurgy, chemical or cement. It is a traditional industry whose relevance transcends its weight in our economic system because it brings unique values that must be taken into account: it offers direct and indirect employment, stable, quality and high qualification; it means a strong territorial stake and rooted in the risks of relocation; it has an undeniable tractor capacity over the territory, generating business fabric; it devotes important resources to innovation and technological development, and it is committed to the energy transition and decarbonisation. To all these singularities we must add one more, evidenced from the first rigours of the pandemic and evidenced in this new time of uncertain international relations. To protect this large basic industry is to bet on a safer and less dependent productive model of external agents, on a strategic sovereignty that we have learned to value even more now. A strong industry makes us stronger as a country. We know this well in Asturias, where the defence of our great industry is a collective endeavour. Asturias is a land of settled industrial tradition in which the weight of coal has marked the productive model over decades. He has experienced very hard conversions throughout his recent history. In recent years, the unstoppable process of decarbonisation and rising energy costs, among other factors, have caused the big industry to turn upside down with obvious economic and social repercussions. We are prepared for the transformation that times demand and, even more, we will take advantage of all the opportunities that this challenge offers, but at the same time we will not give up our industrial tradition. The industry remains the tractor force of Asturias and can coexist perfectly - because it has always done so - with our established mark of natural paradise, also with the impulse to SMEs or with the arrival of digital nomads next to the thriving agri-food sector or the multiple paths that open up science and innovation. Nothing is exclusive. [[Rumors]] The current government of Spain has taken steps in favour of this industry since 2018 and has significantly increased resources to compensate for indirect CO2 emissions costs. Aid for energy efficiency has proved to be a useful mechanism for large industry as well, and the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act covers the maximum percentage permitted by Community legislation to compensate for the effects of indirect costs on CO2 emissions. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u6	The Statute for E-Intensive Consumers, for its part, although it has been a step forward in providing a stable regulatory framework, has proved insufficient with regard to the highly E-Intensive Industry, as we pointed out in Asturias, Galicia and Cantabria. We know that the threats to the very high-power industry are several and of a different nature, and so the answers must be: multiple, complementary and from various fields. [[Rumors]] We call on the Government of Spain to provide a replacement mechanism for the interruptibility service and to move forward with the necessary industrial law. At European level, the implementation of the environmental tariff and also the reform of the system of fixing marginalist energy prices, which the Spanish Government continues to defend before the European Union, are essential. As more global solutions arrive, other mechanisms of industrial, commercial, energy, fiscal or environmental policy are possible - as the Statute of Electrointensive Consumers itself states. This is how we understand this bill, as a new step towards protecting our country's large basic industry. This is considered by the General Council of the Principality of Asturias, which also reflects the feeling of a broad political, economic, social and academic representation of Asturias united in alliance by industry, because maintaining the industrial character of Asturias is a priority, as is also the case for other autonomous communities and is the case for Spain. Expert in conversions and with a long history of resilience when that word did not yet exist, Asturias advances in the path of transforming its economic and productive system, fully aware of the challenges it faces, innovating, conserving and reinventing itself. We have a history of industrial tradition and we want an industrial future, which will undoubtedly be greener, more digital and more sustainable. This is what defends this proposal of law for Asturias and for our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carcedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you a little more silence out of respect for the speaker. I usually ask, but more so when we have as speakers representatives of the citizenry who come from other Parliaments. Secondly, to present the initiative, Mrs María Teresa Mallada de Castro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to address this House, the depositary of national sovereignty, in order to demand, firstly, that the very high-energy industry be regarded as strategic and, secondly - and irrevocably - that within three months a statute be adopted to ensure the competitiveness of the sector and to avoid the destruction of employment and the relocation of industries to countries with lower electricity costs. One might wonder what led a very large majority of the General Council of the Principality to support this initiative. It is simple, ladies and gentlemen: in Asturias we cannot afford to lose another company or to lose another job, because we have the worst working population rate in the country, one of the worst demographic developments in Europe, a progress in bad GDP and the problems of Asturias are so serious in general that if political leaders do not exercise responsibility and agree on the fundamentals, there will be no future for our land. Today is not the day to look for culprits, but, if anyone has an interest in knowing them, they just have to read the recent justification that the Asturian socialist government has made to create its last dynamic element of the economy, which is the Science Agency. In it, the executive of the party that has ruled Asturias for thirty-five years since 1982 literally says that there is little investment, little employment and little productivity in our region. He also adds that political leadership is lacking. If they say so, I have nothing more to add. But today it does not touch that debate. Today it is up to the shoulder and to do so in order to avoid a new breakdown of our industry, a sector that has been experiencing relocations, mine closures and closures of thermal power plants and that is vital in order not to end up turning our land into a jungle with too many wolves, thanks to the Socialist Party, but without employment. The situation is extremely serious. The electricity expenditure in Spain has doubled in our companies, forcing production stops or breaking down. And it is that the final price of megawattage in Spain doubles that of France and almost that of Germany, countries that also have compensations that are effective. I can share that the electricity sector needs a European framework that tackles regulatory dispersion, as requested by the CNMC, but until then we are going to use instruments that have proved to be valid for us. There's no need to invent anything. We had the compensations of the Rajoy Government's interruptibility auction, adaptable to European requirements, and we have the example of the compensations authorized by Brussels that have France, Germany or Italy. [[Applauds]] Miguel de Unamuno already said: 'Let them invent'. And, curiously, he set the example of electricity by adding: 'Electrical light lights up here as well as where it was invented'. But you see it's not like that. The electric light does not shine the same for our industry as for them, for other countries of Europe, and our compensations do not work because the Socialist government has denatured them. You have been continually cutting aid to the electro-intensive: from the 600 million of the People's Party to the poor 66 million in 2020, 170 in 2021, 277 in 2022, always below what the European Union allowed. For political reasons, they have multiplied the number of companies eligible for these compensations by ten, but they have diluted the aid so much that it is absolutely ineffective. And it has taken two years to pass a statute for the electro-intensive industry that turns out to be no good for the big consumer. [[Applauds]] All this by listening deafly to employers, trade unions, autonomous communities and official bodies, and in the midst of a sharp rise in electricity prices and CO2 costs. How can it be explained that in more than two years you have not been able to legislate an effective compensation mechanism for our industry? It is so rude that it is evident that the Socialist Party may be more averse to anything that sounds like a big company than its interest in helping the sector. Help our industry by supporting this proposal. This proposal was approved by forty-three of the forty-five MEPs in Asturias, only VOX abstained. If they do not support it, it will again be shown that they do not care that hundreds of jobs are lost, as they are demonstrating with Alu Iberiana. And, if they support it, they will have to comply with it in three months' time, as the bill states, because, if they do not, they will be making a theatre here today to wash the face of the Socialist Government of Asturias, which is delighted at that theater, because its president says that Parliament is a sham. Give the proposal the importance it requires, because it is an absolutely necessary initiative for the survival, in Asturias and Spain, of key companies for the maintenance of employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Mallada. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, to present the initiative, Mrs Ángela Rosa Vallina de la Noval has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u10	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, together with my fellow Members of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias, we are here to defend the consideration of the proposed strategic declaration law of the very high energy consumption industry based in our country. It is an initiative that was promoted by our group, but which was supported by the unanimous practice of the House and also by the economic and social actors of our community. It is therefore a proposal supported by the whole of Asturian society. Ladies and gentlemen, the first virtue of this initiative, and more so in these current times, is precisely that of unanimity, which is a good sign of the fact that with me, the spokesman for the United Left in Asturias, the spokesman and chairman of the People's Party of Asturias and the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group share their defence. We and the rest of the groups that have supported this initiative are convinced that Spain must not only have a basically powerful industry, but must provide the conditions for its consolidation. That must be a target of the country. But if one thing characterizes that industry is that it requires a very high consumption of electricity, so that the costs resulting from that consumption become its most important cost of production. In Spain, for many reasons, electricity is much more expensive than in many other countries of the European Union, and that in the medium term poses a serious risk to the competitiveness and viability of this industry, which, ladies and gentlemen, generates many direct jobs in Asturias - more than 10,000 direct jobs, many indirect jobs and many induced jobs - a very significant percentage of our gross domestic product and a significant amount of investment in R & D+i. All this - ladies and gentlemen, listen to me well - is at risk. We cannot afford that risk; nor can Asturias, in which some of the most important large consumer industries are located, nor can Spain, for whom the strength of this basic industry is also a condition of its own development and prosperity, be allowed. That is why this legislative initiative is justified. It is therefore essential that we declare the strategic nature of this hyper-consumer electricity industry for our country and that this declaration includes the corresponding administrative, fiscal and priority access and energy pricing benefits that guarantee its competitiveness within the framework of Community legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have promoted this initiative in the interest of Asturias, we will not deny it. It is part of what the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, defined in his recent visit to Asturias as the 'Asturian agenda' - an agenda that, by the way, he undertook to support; today, it may be so - but it is also of interest to the entire hyper-consumer electricity industry in the rest of Spain. It is therefore an initiative of general interest, the result of a pact for its defence, which advocates the equalization in all its aspects of policies aimed at promoting the competitiveness of the electro-intensive sector with those existing in other countries of the European Union. Strong economies are the economies where there is a powerful industry, we just saw with the pandemic. That is why he deserves your support and why, ladies and gentlemen, we ask him to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vallina. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A delegation from the General Board of the Principality of Asturias honors us with its presence in the Chamber to defend a legislative initiative by virtue of its constitutional capacity to raise the issue. Like last May, on the occasion of another bill promoted by the same institution concerning the field of health, this afternoon's debate allows me to recall the good times in which I began as a parliamentarian in the ranks of the People's Alliance, back in 1987, in the Second Legislature of the representative body of the Asturian people. With that intriguing memory, I join in welcoming the three Asturian deputies and in their people he greeted respectfully the whole of the Regional Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, as the three spokesmen have just explained, we are faced with the opportunity to legislate to equip the strategic electro-intensive industry, something that has greater motivation for those of us who are trying to participate, with very hard-working allegations, in the process of hearing and public information of the draft royal decree which intended to regulate the Statute of Electro-intensive Consumers; a process converted by the ministry of fundamentalist Teresa Ribera into a monumental farce aggravated by a drastic decarbonisation that led ahead of the energy sovereignty of Spain, cancelling the mining activity of coal - our only autochthonous fossil fuel - and closing the power generation power stations; in both cases, with the destruction of jobs without socio-economic alternative, which has led to the gradual desertification of the affected basins and comarcas. The use of the Statute of Electrointensive Consumers has resulted from such a magnitude that this bill to declare the strategic nature of an industry on which steel, zinc, aluminium, chemistry, cement, etc. depend, fills some of its major shortcomings and tries to alleviate the calamity that plagues the present of the basic industry and threatens its future. In this regard, he drew his attention to the fact that the statement of reasons itself states that if such a declaration does not take place, it would in fact mean the definitive condemnation of the Spanish basic industry which is highly consuming of electricity. That is what the Asturian Parliament says and it is not an exaggerated statement. Ladies and gentlemen, as some of us have been defending both here, in this rostrum and in different bodies of Congress, all those regulatory instruments and budgetary resources that promote their competitiveness and guarantee the thousands of jobs around them are decisive for the energy-intensive industry as a whole. We are therefore faced with an issue of economic and social survival, because there are times of growing concern for sectors that are also key to gross domestic product and employment in those communities where they are based. Industrial uncertainty is the result of the disastrous management of this government, aided, in the case of Asturias, by its autonomic counterpart. It is enough to note that last week, for an unusual initiative signed by six of the seven parliamentary groups of the General Board of the Principality, a full monograph on industry was held with special reference to the situation of the Alu Ibérica plant in Avilés, whose disappearance reflects a disastrous drift that translates into destruction of employment and which also has its tragic reflection in other communities, such as in the case of neighbouring Galicia. I support the workers misled by the Ministry of Industry. The electro-intensive concerns also have them in Cantabria, as Fr.José María Mazón, a member of the PRC Congress, constantly recalls, with his initiatives and interventions. Ladies and gentlemen, a law that responds to the general interest should provide Spain with a specific regulatory framework around the basic electricity-intensive industry. It is essential and a matter of urgency that this normative reinforcement in view of the absolute inability of the Government to pay attention to and remedy the major and very serious problems that threaten the industry and exacerbate its development. In this respect, it is appropriate to highlight some of its large costs which penalise and asphyxiate it, because in Spain the correction and cancellation of the electricity cost differential with the competing counterpart countries is not guaranteed, nor are the mechanisms and models for reducing electricity costs that are in force in other countries under the auspices of the European Union included. It should also be noted that last week the National Institute of Statistics made public analyses of the evolution of industrial prices, which, as was foreseeable, have been triggered as a consequence of the energy prices that have made Spain a leading European leader in electricity tariffs. Families, businesses, SMEs and industry pay more than anyone else in Europe, so once again it is appropriate to recall the text with which the PSOE and the United We Can seal their government agreement: We have developed an industrial development plan with the 2030 horizon for green transition and decarbonisation, which will maximize opportunities, improve the competitiveness of industry and create jobs of quality and prosperity, helping to increase the contribution of industry to GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, past the equator of this XIV Legislature, the balance sheet of the action of the Social Communist Government is inversely proportional to the commitment to its formation. Nor have they fulfilled their own offer to complete the approval of the Statute of the Electrointensive Consumers with the aim of enhancing - they said in their agreement - the competitiveness and efficiency of companies with high energy costs through compensations and payment exemptions in exchange for improving their energy efficiency and maintaining and generating employment. Pedro Sánchez himself, in his investiture, committed himself to the reduction of the bill of light, although we already see how it has been firing and impacting on an inflation that brings us back decades ago, along with an escalation of costs throughout the production chain that does not distinguish between sectors and size of companies. In short, equipping the strategic electrointensive industry will be good for Spain but insufficient if the modes and ways with which the social communist government is managed are maintained, and it will be completely useless if this bill becomes wet paper. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor. [[Mr. Ruiz of Pinedo Undiano makes negative gestures]] He's not taking the floor. All right, thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u14	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Welcome to those who have presented this initiative today. As you have said, the objectives of this proposal are: to declare as strategic the very high energy consumption industry - in particular, when it reaches a consumption of more than 1.5 kilowatts per hour per euro of gross value added and a commercial intensity in its sector of more than 20% - that this declaration has a series of administrative and fiscal benefits which will be fixed in that statute of the very high energy consumption industry and that this new statute will be approved within three months. The fact is that this issue is not new in this Parliament, it is a claim by the autonomous governments of Galicia, Cantabria and, above all, Asturias, following the removal in 2009 of that former G4 electricity tariff, which was the one that subsidized the cost of electricity-intensive companies and which the European Union considered to be in contravention of the European provisions on free competition. Moreover, when the Statute for E-Intensive Consumers was processed here, the three autonomous communities basically proposed to retreat to previous regulations, focusing on their interest in the status of a large electric consumer and requesting, among other things, the creation of a specific fee exempt from the payment of the charges of the electricity system by a maximum percentage, which was what could be allowed by law, as well as exemption from the annual contributions to the National Energy Efficiency Fund. And, in addition, they proposed the establishment of two categories of electro-intensive, proposals with which we in our day - I have to say - were not entirely in agreement because, as they were at the time, they limited the scope of application of the Statute of Electro-intensive Consumers at that time and went to the detriment of our industries in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, but simply because of the characteristics and typology of our own industry. Then we advocate for the study of those allegations, so that companies that could benefit from that Statute of Consumers of Electrointensives are not harmed. Today, again, it is still proposed that this type of large consumer should have special and differentiated treatment during the energy transition, because of the impossibility of transferring electricity cost increases to prices, but with a difference and that the approach they now bring here is much more open. Except in the definition of the concept of a very high energy consumption industry, which does define it, they leave all the wording and, where appropriate, approval of the new status in the air and say nothing of the current status of the electro-intensive, which is in force. Are you two going to coexist? Are you going to move each other? We understand that, having a regulatory framework from the Royal Decree 20/2018 for the promotion of economic competitiveness in the industry sector, by which the Government - to be said - also approved for the first time a Statute for Consumers that characterizes them, which defines these consumers, industrial enterprises or those industrial enterprises in which the cost of electricity represents a very high percentage of their production costs, collects their rights and obligations in relation to their participation in the electricity system and markets, for my group it would perhaps be better to put in place measures to improve that status, so that certain requirements are relaxed and the needs of these industries, of these autonomous communities, without harming those who can now benefit from this statute. Perhaps we have not just understood the need for another instrument when, as I said, we already have a Statute for Electrointensive Consumers; an instrument which must give legal certainty and which is supposed to be designed to improve the competitiveness of the electrointensive industry, but which also needs to be improved. However, we understand that it cannot be improved from a proposal as short as the one they propose today, because they leave many things to the arbitration, leave to the arbitration that future drafting of the statute of the electro-intensives. What we are saying is that if we already have existing legislation, creating a new one for something so specific should be framed and discussed, if appropriate, within the current framework. However, we also understand that there is a lot at stake, that for you it is very important to give security to these industries in your autonomous communities and therefore we will not be an obstacle to the proposal of these autonomous communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the consideration of a proposal for a law aimed at declaring the strategic nature of the energy-intensive industry in our country. This is, as you can easily deduce, an essential issue in the current situation of rising electricity and fuel prices, and it is - let us not forget - a question of protecting Spain's productive fabric, which is already badly affected by the economic crisis brought about by the pandemic and because the European funds still do not come with the necessary fluidity for the much propaganda the Government wants to make. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many families looking at this Parliament, waiting for decisions to be taken here and solutions to be reached, and for it to be done now, with a speed, of course, adapted to their needs. Allow me to dwell on the objectives of this proposal for a law, which we can break down into three basic pillars: first, as we have commented, the strategic declaration of the very high energy consumption industry based in Spanish territory and for this purpose it will be understood that an industry is of very high energy consumption when it reaches a consumption ratio of more than 1.5 kilowatts per hour per euro of gross value added and a commercial intensity in its sector of more than 20%; second, that such a declaration includes access to the administrative benefits of taxation and to the mechanisms of priority access and determination of energy prices to be fixed in a statute of the very high energy consumption industry, and third, that within the maximum of three months since the adoption of the law the Government approves this specific statute of the very high energy consumption industry. These objectives, of course, are laudable, but I would like to highlight the fact that today we are discussing the consideration of a text of this nature after this government - this one, and not another - will adopt after several years the electro-intensive statute, a statute which the sector believes is inefficient and which has been short. This fact clearly means that this government - this, I repeat, does not have the excuse for the inheritances received here - did not know whether or not it wanted to see the real needs of this sector. Obviously, a second reading of all of the above is that the electro-intensive status was short and every patch that the Socialist Party and the People's Party - People's Party and Socialist Party - have been putting on for years continues to suffer our industry. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is on the edge. We need reforms now, ambitious and quiet, and it is not worth dragging your feet, as it has been so far. It is essential that we understand, once and for all, that the pandemic has accelerated all cycles and that it is no longer worth pulling, as always. Bipartisanism must understand that its way of doing politics is no longer the one that is needed in the times that are now. Thus, it is clear that the Government cannot delay any longer in considering the development of the Statute for Electrointensive Consumers, with the exemption of 80% of electric tolls, as already enjoyed by the German and French industrialists, moreover for a long time, and without forgetting that the Portuguese will have a discount of 94% of their access rates in this same year 2022. What about the Spaniards? Here we continue to drag our feet to the tiring rhythm of bipartisanism. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not know or want to work hard on reforms, step aside and let us work for others, for whom we have a reformist and public service vocation. It would be easier if he simply accepted our proposals which we give them, which remain in his hands and which are his own, for the sake of the Spaniards. Returning to the specifics, according to the data of the Association of energy-intensive companies, on 31 January the comparison of final electricity prices of the electrointensive industry casts palmar data, since they are 20% lower in Germany and up to 60% lower in France. As Citizens have pointed out, since the beginning of the escalation of electricity prices, this abysmal difference comes in an unabsorbed proportion of regulated prices and charges and taxes. Regulated prices are four times higher than in Germany and sixteen times higher than in France and surcharges and taxes, five times higher than in Germany and three times higher than in France. That is where the dedicated action of the Government for a rapid, real and sustainable reduction of the electricity bill must begin at once. How does this government intend that with this data our industry, which is highly dependent on high electricity prices, can be competitive with the rest of the countries if it confronts this context of inflation and that nobody here does anything? In addition, we believe that the viability, continuity and profitability of the electrointensive industry must be ensured, including in any initiative two vital factors for the immediate future of the sector: on the one hand, the data centres, the fundamental infrastructure of the digitalised economy which was supposed to be among the government's objectives and which have the electricity bill as the main expenditure, and on the other, the penetration of green hydrogen as the only sustainable alternative for many electrointensive industries. The development of the green hydrogen industry depends on the existence of a guarantee of consumption not only in Asturias, but in all the autonomous communities with the electro-intensive industry. Spanish industry can't take it anymore. It is not fair that those who earn bread with the sweat of their forehead and pay their bills religiously have no real response from the Government of this country, nor that they continue to assume that high price of having populists in the Council of Ministers and populism in the BOE. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, think of them, correct them. Be ambitious with the reforms, because our industry really needs it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u18	Thank you, Madam President. The electro-intensive industry and even the intensive hyper-electro are fundamental in my country, in Galicia, as we are talking about about about 5,000 direct and many more indirect jobs. That is why it is a fundamental concern of the Galego Nationalist Block, which is why we defend in its day a status of the electric intensive consumer that gives solution to the high energy prices and that guarantees an accessible, stable and predictable electricity tariff. Unfortunately - and I think we agree with that - the approved statute did not provide a solution; among other things, the BNG's proposals to limit CO2 compensation or eliminate all charges and tolls that did not have a direct relationship with electricity production and management were not taken into account. But we also doubt that the proposal that is on the table and that we are being brought here today represents a solution; we doubt that it is through the strategic declaration of the whole electro-intensive industry, without repairing in which sectors yes and in which sectors no, and that criteria such as the intensity in a commercial sector of more than 20% of unconcreted administrative and fiscal benefits are being discussed. We believe that we must go to a statute, in line with what we always defend, and to a general reformulation of the regulation of the electricity sector, which is the key, including the possibility of an electricity tariff for those countries that, like Galicia, are surplus producers of electricity. We will therefore abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u20	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to welcome the proponents of this proposal for a law, which seeks to declare the industry of very high electricity consumption a strategic one. We believe that this initiative - I think it has already been said here, but we want to join in this idea - should be improved and worked on in various parliamentary procedures in which we will try to participate, but we are progressing that we will abstain in the vote on this initiative. We welcome - indeed - that they bet, in the end, on the industry. We believe that this government does not bet on industry as we should or should bet on such a government, from a country like ours. We believe that issues such as increasing the cost of electricity billing, issues such as the complications of regulating in favour of companies betting on cogeneration or the leniency that different voices have denounced, for example, on issues such as the recovery of Nissan in defining different projects that must reindustrialise areas and communities, such as the Community of Catalonia, are the result of the leniency, of a bad bet from this government. We believe that your initiative is good, because it is part of a very concrete idiosyncrasy that affects your territory, and that is why we are not going to be an obstacle and we are going to abstain from further processing this initiative and so that we can improve it among all of you. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u22	Thank you, President. Welcome, Asturian deputies. They call for a strategic declaration of the very high-energy industry, but we must ask ourselves what consequences it would have. On the one hand, they call for a stable, quality and lower-priced electricity supply for those industries which are particularly sensitive to the cost of energy. How will that be done without violating the competition rules of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? I would remind you that all direct aid granted by the Member States is prohibited, whether in the form of lost grants, concessional loans, tax exemptions, taxes or loan guarantees. Secondly, they call for specific auctions for renewables, cogeneration and waste facilities to benefit certain industries against others that are also drowned by the current price escalation and are also at risk of closure. More realism: Can the government force companies to offer PPP contracts to industry at affordable prices? No, no, But if what the electrics have done has been, precisely, invalidate many of the PPP contracts they had signed because they are no longer profitable. By the way, Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 of 14 September decreed the organization by 31 December of a first auction of manageable and non-regulated submarginal energy. The intention of the auction was to help marketers to reduce the costs and prices they offered to their final customers, industrial, SME or domestic, forcing dominant power producers to sell certain quantities at that auction. Why hasn't the government made the auction? Why have you failed to comply with your regulations? They also request an exemption of 80% of the transport toll. I guess we're all clear that if that toll doesn't pay for it by big companies, it'll end up paying for SMEs or users, domestic customers. Let us be clear, over-protection of those who consume more energy could result in a comparative aggravation of those SMEs for which the cost of production energy is also proportionally very high, although they do not meet the size and consumption requirements of the large ones. Is it only the competitiveness of the big ones that matters? Since Catalonia, claims have already been made to the Royal Decree regulating the status of electric intensive consumers of 2020. For example, it was requested to reduce the requirement to consume at least 80 % of the annual electricity in the valley tariff period, as it was considered too demanding for electro-intensive SMEs. Needless to say, at that time the Government ignored it. Let us try to propose solutions that are not for a few and that end up paying the majority. The proposal is full of good intentions, we know that, and therefore, although we have many doubts, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u24	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I want my first words to be welcome to the spokespersons of the Xunta Xeneral d'Asturies, well arrived, with special appreciation to the deputy Angela Vallina, who promoted this initiative as part of the social dialogue and who, after being approved at the Xunta by almost unanimity, arrives here today at Congress. [[Applauds]] Because this is an essential initiative for the intensive hyperelectric industrial fabric, yes, but not only because these companies - very high electrical consumption companies such as steel, metallurgical or chemical companies - supply basic intermediate products that are used for the production of a large part of the final products of our industry and that supply the market both inside and outside the state. The electricity consumption of some companies, given the current prices, can account for 50% of the production costs, as the Association of Energy-intensive Companies points out. This poses a problem for competitiveness, harming not only the intensive hydroelectric industry but all the industrial fabric that depends on it. Because, you will see, the cost overrun on electricity prices in the electrically intensive consumers has an impact on the entire production chain. That is why we insist that this is a necessary initiative, because it is our current regulatory framework that is finding the competitive capacity of our industry vis-à-vis neighbouring countries, such as Germany or France, and let us not say whether we are talking about extra-Community competitors, where energy prices are significantly lower. We must articulate the electrical system with the productive structure of our economy, so that it will contribute to improving the competitiveness of our companies, also by deploying the necessary mechanisms by the public administrations to keep in our territory the industry that is at risk of carbon leakage, something that in Asturias we know well and that happens, moreover, because of the lack of a determined struggle against the relocations that allow these practices to occur, leaving whole regions to the inclement weather. We must be aware that these measures can be carried out without compromising the ecological transition, a mandate that will be overcome - political wills, a mandate that the younger generations give us, that they know perfectly well that there is no planet b, and a mandate for the collective health of citizens today; a transition that has to be socially and environmentally just and that is in dispute. Here it is necessary to point to the oligopoly of electrics, of the electrical system, which is formed by a very small handful of companies. It should be noted that the disjunctive is not only between public administrations and the industry with very high electricity consumption, but that the role that oligopoly plays has to enter the equation if what we really want is to solve the problem by betting on a productive model on which thousands of jobs and thousands of families depend, because - and this is certainly the most important - we are talking about strategic companies for our industrial fabric but which are also strategic for the sustainability of entire regions. I think, of course, of the region of Avilés, of the workforce of Alu Ibérica and of the more than three hundred families that are already seen in the weather by the inaction of the Administration. I want and must be hard on this and nothing I say is going to be as hard as the reality that these workers and families have experienced over the past three years. And I'm thinking about San Cibrao too. Abandoning these industries is abandoning entire regions. That is why this initiative is also indefatigable, because it comes out on the defensive, because it comes out to protect thousands of families in heavily industrialized territories; families that, as in Asturias, sustain the country's own economy. I also share the words of the Secretary-General of the Workers' Commissions of Asturias, José Manuel Zapico, when he says that this is not about compensation or aid, but about laying the foundations for the sovereignty of the country and the possibility that Asturias can have an industry on an equal footing. Asturias deserves a quick response and deserves a future project because it is many years of being forced to go out on the defensive. Asturias - and other territories in the same situation - deserves a project of country that takes advantage of the capacity and know-how of workers and proposes a productive model that looks to the future. It is time to take the initiative, to regain the capacity we have to innovate. The Strategic Projects for Economic Recovery and Transformation - the PERTE - are a good reference to promote an industry that responds to sustainability in environmental and social justice criteria, that strengthen public services and that has run, that has puxu - as we had in other historical times - to generate employment, to produce energy and to guarantee future. In uncertainty, which is the word that I think best describes our time and which is the word that is enraged to my parents' generation when they think about the future of their daughters or grandchildren, we can fill it all with noise or we can make courageous proposals that are also effective. Unidad Podemos is resolutely in this second option, and those who want to contribute to the present and future of Asturias will have us at their disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u26	Thank you very much and good afternoon. We have talked a great deal about what we have been talking about in the afternoon and in this speech on this issue. In particular, several spokesmen from all political groups have spoken about the cost of light and have said: no, the cost of light for many reasons... Well, gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of Podemos, open your eyes and tell your voters the truth: the price of light is so high for their climate policies; for all those impositions that come from the European Commission and to which you support; for the closure of the thermal power plants in Asturias; for the closure of the coal mines. [[applause]] For all these questions, the price of light is so high and not for various questions in abstract. [[Applauds]] You're still talking about the very high electrical expenditure. Mrs Mallada, from the PP, talks about electrical spending. Mrs Mallada, if you want to attack and curb electricity expenditure, you directly attack all these issues and all these policies, and do not launch or support these smoke bombs that the Socialist Party is launching. In particular, the spokesman for Podemos - Asturian, by the way - demonstrates an absolute lack of knowledge of how this energy and industrial issue works. It says: some industries that, due to the high cost of energy, their expenditure on electricity accounts for more than 50%. This is not the case, these industries spend more than 50 % on electricity because it is one of the main assets they employ for their production system, not because prices are currently very high. This is because they sometimes exceed 60%, 70% or 75% of the cost, which should not be; but 50% is already normal. Moreover, this is what the sector demanded was the requirement to be recognized as electro-intensive, an issue that all parties here today have completely ignored. [[Applauds]] You have also spoken of a hard conversion. Well, it has been hard for some, for the whole mining sector, for the mining basins and for the industry, because the trade unionists - to which, by the way, Mrs Castañón quotes as pops of the mining conversion - have not had a hard conversion; on the contrary, these gentlemen have lined up with the mining conversion. The proof is that every day we come up with condemnations of trade unionists from one or another of the main trade unions; among others, the most famous - how not - Mr. Villa, Mrs. Lastra's political godfather, sitting here looking down. [[applause]] You talk about that resilient Asturias; you talk about that Asturias that has tractor force; you talk about that Asturias that had illusion... Well, I did, because you guys stole it. Here the question is that the council of Laviana, for example, has today fewer inhabitants than in 1950. Mieres, the cradle of the Asturian industry, has fewer inhabitants than in 1920. Avilés is below the population level he had in 1970. The Council of Aller, which in 1970 had a proud population of 28 000, today has barely 10 000. Cangas del Narcea, which in 1970 had 20 000 very worthy inhabitants, today it is hardly 12 000. And this has been caused by your policies, your policies; because if it is very ugly to deceive all the Spaniards - which is what you constantly do - it is even more ugly to deceive your own voters. [[applause]] Because all those workers, industrialists, miners, who with illusion voted to them believing that they were going to solve even some of their problems, did not know that you were actually the wolf dressed as lamb, and that what they did was to close one by one all the ways of earning bread and sustenance, but not from them but also from their children and grandchildren. [[Applauds]] And that's what happens today, that in Asturias there are fewer and fewer children left, fewer grandchildren left to guarantee that future, and this is the key to everything. Because the government of Asturias of the Socialist Party and of Podemos - Socialist Party that has ruled this ruinous Asturias for forty years - is dedicated to throwing smoke bombs and distractions so that the voters - their voters -, instead of looking at those nuclear issues, which are really the germ of the destruction of Asturias, look at these fireworks that you launch. Here we have Mr. Barbon, how he launches his bable language campaign, supported of course by Podemos. By the way, the spokesman for Podemos on the Board of the Principality is a Lord of Huesca, who supports the supposedly Asturian language. [[Applauds]] You guys keep talking about the COVID. They impose restrictions on fundamental rights for citizens to be forced to talk and to worry about these issues, rather than thinking about these elements that undermine their future and that of their children and grandchildren. And now you are launching this particular initiative, which is just another smoke bomb to disguise yourself as nuns and speak with a sanctifying voice, as if it were you - Socialist Party and Podemos, supported by the PP - to save the electrointensive industry with an initiative that, in just one folio, provides absolutely no solution. And it does not provide any solution because the Statute for Electro-Intensives, which was already adopted one year before this initiative was approved in the Asturian Parliament, establishes a very concrete barrier for an industry to be considered electro-intensive: it consumes 1.5 kilowatts per euro of gross value added. Many of you will not even understand what this figure represents, of course, because the explanatory statements and all the issues that the sector has brought have probably not even been read. This barrier is the one that establishes the status of the electro-intensive, and it is exactly the same one that establishes this initiative that brings us all here today by the hand. The sector has already said that it is an initiative that is useless, it has already said that this barrier that you establish only serves to multiply those industries that can opt for electro-intensive compensation funds, diluting, therefore, the amount that will be distributed among all of them. And in the end, what happens? That those industries which - as Mrs Castañón has misunderstood - consume more than 50% of their energy resources they need to produce, will not receive the necessary compensation. Talking about compensation is fine, especially in this situation, but it would be much better to talk about it in another way, to think about why electricity is so expensive in Spain, why when the price of basic electricity in Germany comes out at 200 euros - now that it is in the clouds - in Spain it comes out at around 320 euros. Why? For your climate policies, because you have been the adalids of climate policies. [[applause]] It was not enough for them to adopt the European Commission's approach, you had to improve it, and that is what is sinking the future of workers and industry in Spain. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u27	Thank you, Mr. Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Gazquez Collado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u28	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. My intervention is going to be quieter, I don't think screaming is going to make you any more right. At least, mine's going to be in this tone. [[Applauds]] Welcome to my comrades in Asturias, especially - forgive me - to Maria Teresa, my fellow member of the People's Party. Asturias is a region - I suppose you all know it, but it is good to make this preamble, because we are very proud of it - with industrial tradition, with an industrial vocation and with the hope of having an industrial future. The entrepreneurs in our region are basically asking for three things: to reduce their administrative barriers, to reduce their high taxation and a competitive electricity tariff against their peers in Europe or the rest of the world. Only with these three premises can Asturias regain its industrial power, a quality and secure employment, and have a competitive, sustainable and digital industry. In 1986, the secondary sector in Asturias accounted for 36.48% of GDP; in 2000 it accounted for 22.9 % and at present only 17.9 %. We are in free fall and without a net that stops us. And here are the data; the regions where industry and energy, the secondary sector, weigh more than 20% of GDP, their unemployment is less than 9%. For example, this is Asturias and this is Navarra. At the national level we are not better, we are exactly the same. In Spain, industry rose from 18.7% in 2000 to 14.6% in 2020, when it was expected to reach 20% by 2020. In addition, Asturias has gone from being an autonomous community that exported energy to being no longer competitive because of the cost of energy. Here I have to tell Mr de VOX, Mr Figaredo, my fellow Asturian, that no, it's not the People's Party's fault. The People's Party did not want an accelerated and projectless decarbonization. We had deadlines that marked Europe and that we were going to meet, not speed them up and take us to the abyss where the Socialist Party has taken us. [[Applauds]] It says the initiative of the United Left that today is brought to this House, supported by all groups, and I read intercomilated texts: It is an essential objective of the State to protect and defend industry as a fundamental pillar of economic activity. To achieve this objective, it is essential to declare the strategic nature of these industries. Of course I do! Do it, you're in the government! We do not need these initiatives in a regional Parliament and after you come to tell us about it in Madrid. Take him to the Council of Ministers, who govern. Moreover, they should have taken him two years ago, when the United Left already entered the Government of Spain. It is also true that the United Left lost its share with Minister Garzón, a minister synonymous with nullity and incompetence, such as his ministry. But well, every minute lost in legislating for our industry - in this case, for the hyper-intensive industry - is a missed opportunity for our competitiveness, and not just for the Asturian industry, also for the rest of Spain, especially for the Galician industry, which now stops producing primary aluminium by the decisions of this nefarious socialist government that prevents competition on equal terms. But the process is still more kafkian, because here we are familiar with a policy in which the coalition partners are confronted: Unite Podemos with the PSOE. But no, in Asturias we get more. In Asturias, United Left and Podemos are two different matches that are presented with different programs. So those usual fights that the coalition partners have - a week for foreign defence policy, another week for livestock policy, next week to know what's on us and, in addition, they are proud to discuss in the press - we have them in Asturias, in addition, among the partners of the coalition here, between United Left and Podemos, with different programs. This initiative that is presented today is signed by United Left. It is curious to see how Mrs Castañon defended her when this is the first time I see Podemos defending the Asturian industry. This is going to go down in history. It's going to happen to history because they only attack it. But well, to this initiative, which has been presented by the United Left, seven amendments were tabled by Podemos, which the United Left itself rejected. That is to say, here we are already taking the dispute to incredible levels. Do not clarify between United Left and Podemos, then do not clarify between United Podemos and the Socialist Party, how will we expect them to be clarified in a government of Spain! And then it has already been absolutely paradoxical to see the Socialist Government supporting this proposal now, when here in this House they have consistently voted against parties or similar initiatives of the People's Party. Welcome to sanity. But why have they not done anything since La Moncloa during these years to legislate in favor of the intensive hydroelectric industry? We've been lost for four years, because you've been in government for four years. Although I also understand the paper of Asturian socialism. Among your ranks, as you know very well - although you will deny it - you are said to have very little appreciation for the two ministers who lead the branch: the Minister of Ecological Transition, Mrs Rivera, and the Minister of Industry, Mrs Maroto. As little appreciation as we have in the People's Party. And in the Asturian PSOE they are wishing, as we wish, that this president removes them and names capable and competent people, not like these people, who are absolutely incapable and incompetent. In short, and in a constructive spirit, we are glad that they endorse a proposal from the People's Party and that they correct their mistake, but they are not short. They take more of our proposals: the tax cuts and regulatory charges contained in the crash plan for the reduction of the electricity and gas bill, and the rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group to the State General Budgets for 2022; the maximum legally permitted allocation, from the revenues of emission allowances auctions; the modification and increased allocation of projects from the Spanish Guarantee Reserve Fund and electro-intensive entities; direct access to electricity-intensive consumers to renewable auctions. All of them. And above all, take advantage of the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. The Ministry of Industry has barely implemented 5.8% on 30 November, and all this, of course, should be managed by an independent authority because they are not PSOE funds, not even Nadia Calviño's husband. Finally, change your industrial and energy strategy and you will have us by your side. This is real Spain, which needs solutions and which you live on the margins of, which today describes the economic press: rising interest rates; inflated inflation, i.e. structural; slowing GDP growth; tax pressure 4 points higher than that of the European Union. Give solutions to all this and do not set numbers to show responsibility in a regional Parliament and then continue to demonstrate irresponsibility - all three, PSOE, United Left and Podemos - at national level. They are in the government; they govern, legislate and really bet on the Spanish industry, and they will have us there. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Gazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr García Morís has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to begin by thanking the presence of my fellow Asturian Members at the plenary session of this House, representing the General Assembly of the Principality of Asturias, especially Mrs Dolores Carcedo, spokesman for my parliamentary group in the Asturian Parliament, Parliament which, in the use of its powers, raises this proposal for a law to declare the strategic nature of the very high energy consumption industry based in Spain. I therefore believe that the legislative initiative of our autonomous Parliament should be welcomed. Nor do I want to pass the opportunity without sending a greeting and a message of support to the Asturian industrial workers affected by the issues we are discussing today in this House, which, on the other hand, are also part of our concerns as political representatives and of the government's policy agenda in the field of industrial policy. In 2019, the weight of the Asturian industry in its gross value added was 19,69 %, above the State average. Industry is one of our signs of identity and plays a key role in our economy. The basic industrial sector for the productive system, necessary to tackle the digital transition of the economy and the energy transition, but also for social cohesion and territorial cohesion, as a sector capable of generating stable employment. As is well known, industry is undergoing a transformative process towards a more sustainable, digital, competitive model, which in turn acts as a tractor for other sectors, and in this paradigm shift the Asturian industry and also the policies of the Government of Asturias and the Government of Spain are moving, because there is no doubt that industry is a strategic future bet, and we understand that. In this context there was the visit of President Pedro Sánchez a few months ago to announce the project in Arcelor for its decarbonization. I quote his words: 'We are here to say that company, territory and governments are committed to the steel industry in Asturias..., which is the same as committing to the recovery and modernization of the Spanish industry and economy', the president said in his visit to Asturias. This industrial fabric directly employs more than 54,000 people in our region and, in turn, generates many indirect jobs, so for this government it is essential to contribute to its modernization, avoiding any kind of relocation in our industries, and so it has been working since 2018. That is why I think that the Asturian citizenship that is listening to us today, but especially the workers in the industrial sector, probably worry about hearing and checking the use that the right - and particularly the People's Party - makes here, in this plenary, as always, of industrial policy. That is why I am also very surprised that in these interventions that come from the General Council of the Principality of Asturias two stand out, from Mrs Dolores Carcedoy of Angela Vallina, who talk about this important initiative and, on the contrary, use the other intervention to speak badly of Asturias, and do so precisely who stamped his signature in the Plan of Closing the Mining in the Presidency of Hunosa. [[Applauds]] Because, when one hears the representatives of the right, and we have just seen it now, attack without contemplations - Mrs Gázquez - the industrial policy, both of the Government of Asturias and of Spain, with empty arguments, so poorly supported by data and so partisans, one cannot avoid considering whether certain parties really care about our industrial future, that of our people, that of our land, or if what really worries them is their future as a political party and their electoral interests. And I am sure that the workers, the workers and also the companies that listen to us from Asturias and the rest of Spain will be the same. You have to think about what we saw this afternoon in plenary. The People's Party, where it governs, stands out for a total absence of real industrial policy, and they did so when you had government responsibilities at the state level. They should be asked if they have already forgotten when José María Aznar's government privatized some of these public enterprises. Privatizing at any price, that was the maximum of José María Aznar's government. Because you, gentlemen of the People's Party, when you rule, privatize and, when you are in opposition, ask for public intervention. As I said, we did not start from scratch, we did not start from scratch, as we did when we assumed the government, after Mariano Rajoy. There was a lack of industrial policy. That is why I want to highlight the measures taken by the Government and those instruments and mechanisms that are improving the competitiveness of the electro-intensive industry, even if we aspire to more, because this is the starting point and we must recognise it, and that is what some of you do not do, so as to put sticks on the wheels, just as you are doing with the recovery funds as well. If they are not concerned about the country, they have little concern about the industrial sector. The status of electricity, which has been discussed here today, was a step forward, because it raises very important issues. It establishes a legal framework, gives legal certainty to aid and clearly sets out the CO2 compensations, a chapter on which we continue to work to maximize these compensations. This is an industry that requires high intensities of electrical consumption, hence we know and understand the concern that moves from Asturias to open the debate and to propose initiatives for the industry of very high energy consumption, because the industries that consume a lot of energy are indispensable for the Asturian, Spanish and also European economy. The introduction of these initial measures does not prevent the Government from establishing new support mechanisms for these electro-intensive consumers in the future. An industrial law is expected to be adopted, which will soon be referred to these courts, where the most effective and efficient instruments and mechanisms to support the industrial sector can be discussed. In short, we continue to work on that 2030 industrial strategy that defines this industrial policy. The Government is working on this key to bring together all the efforts between Asturias and Spain to ensure employment, the basic industry, which does not make us dependent, and an industrial sector that, of course, marks Asturias's character, which complements our land very well, and we know it, with other economic sectors, and that is why we will support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] At the end of the debate on this item, we bid farewell to the three representatives of the General Assembly of the Principality of Asturias, Mrs Carcedo, Mrs Mallada and Mrs Vallina, thanking them for their statement and their presence in this Chamber and in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u32	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group amending Law 19/2013 of 9 December 2013 on transparency, access to public information and good governance, in order to regulate statistics on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement. [[SMEs]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Del Valle de Iscar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u33	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a law amending Law 19/2013 of 9 December on transparency, access to public information and good governance, presented today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is part of an initiative adopted by a large majority in the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism last June. The aim of this initiative was to encourage SMEs to participate in public procurement and thus to have statistical data to analyse the situation with regard to public contracts awarded. [[The Lord]] Spanish SMEs are the great business fabric that sustains our economy, as they represent 99.8%, 64.2% of employment with a high capacity to generate new jobs and, on the other hand, the contribution to gross value added is only 62 %. If we approach this important sector with a magnifying glass, we see that 86% of SMEs have fewer than ten workers, and more than half have less than three employees. This situation hinders their competitiveness and their ability to access an important source of business growth, such as public procurement. According to a 2018 OECD report, public procurement procedures for SMEs in Europe reach an average of 52%, while in Spain it is only 28%. The studies indicate that the Spanish average company employs 4.7 people, compared to 6 in Europe. In Germany, the United Kingdom and Austria, their medium-sized enterprises double in persons employed to the Spanish. The European Commission has warned on different occasions of this situation of lack of opportunities for SMEs, both because of the disproportionate requirements for bidding and because of the high amounts of contracts, which make them inaccessible to many of our SMEs. The current Law 9/2017 on public sector contracts, which transposes different European directives, was a first attempt to bring public contracts closer to SMEs, since it favours the partitioning of large contracts into lots, the reduction of administrative burdens with responsible declarations, and a large number of simplified procedures that help SMEs to be able to submit to these competitions. This amendment that we are presenting today is part of the Strategic Framework for SME Policy 2030 that the Ministry of Industry recently submitted, and in the reports of the Office for Regulation and Supervision of Recruitment, which warns of this gap in relation to SMEs, compared to other European ones. We also start from a certainty that larger companies are much more resilient to crises and uncertainties, as we have seen over the past two years. Therefore, increasing the size of our SMEs is a task that concerns us all and that would have a significant effect on jobs, exports and increasing national GDP. A formula for this, and it is in our hands, is the increased participation of SMEs in public procurement. We do not miss the reality we are experiencing and the strong impact that the COVID crisis has had on our companies. The government-led economic relief measures during the ERTE pandemic, the provision of cessation of activity to self-employed people, the regulation of teleworking, credit lines and in-depth funding have saved businesses and thus jobs as well. The great vaccine for our SMEs is the funds of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, in particular Component 13, with a total investment of 4894 million euros, which incorporates an important package of reforms and investments that aim to facilitate the creation of enterprises, their growth and restructuring, improve the business climate, in particular by strengthening the functioning of the Spanish internal market, and also continue to drive the important processes of productivity growth through digitisation, innovation and internationalisation. Among the policy reforms that the Government is addressing, we can highlight the law of business creation and growth, as well as the law of startups to promote innovative entrepreneurship. In addition, they are complemented by a reform of the competition framework, which will soon come to light. All these ideas and projects presented by the Government are also complemented by the consensus reached over the past two years in the field of social dialogue with workers' and employers' representatives, which is also bearing fruit in the climate of labour relations, which are so important for the growth of employment and for our SMEs. Thanks to all these measures, in the face of the right's catastrophe and without falling into triumphalism, we can say that, without it having been two years since the crisis began, this last month we have heard news that Spain's GDP grew - it is still provisional data - by 2021 more than 5%, which is the highest rate of the last twenty-one years, and that last year 2021 in Spain constituted 21 % more companies than the previous year. Another great indicator that marks the evolution is the labour market, with a record number of Social Security affiliates very close to 20 million Spaniards, and with a very significant drop in the number of unemployed, already in practically preCOVIR data. By the way, last year's employment in Spain, compared to our right-wing position, accounted for 89 % of that employment in the private sector. [[Applauds]] This is not because of their disastrous labour reform, but because of the confidence of companies in the progress of the economy and in the policy promoted by this government. [[Rumors]] While in the whole of Spain the data mark a positive trend in recovery, unfortunately on my land this is not so. As you like to go to Castile and León so much to talk about Spain, because I will have to come too to talk a little bit about what happens in Castile and León. In Castile and León, the data show, at the end of 2021, that economic growth is much lower than the country's average; that we are 8 points below in the creation of new businesses; and that, according to the fourth quarter EPA, the number of unemployed is increasing by 2,400 people, while there is a loss of people employed by 9,000. That happens in Castile and Leon, in the Castile and Lion where you have been ruling for thirty-five years. With this disastrous data, and paralyzing an Administration, that of Castile and León, which would have to be busy and concerned to take advantage of the opportunities for economic recovery, to also take advantage of those funds that you seem not to like, but that all Spaniards do, generating stability and trust in the companies, Mr Mañueco comes up in the middle of the sixth wave of irresponsibly calling an election. Its service sheet for economic recovery is virtually blank: of the 232 million of the state's COVID line for SMEs and self-employed people, 180 million, 78 % have ceased to be distributed; with the multiple needs to be covered by the pandemic, and with the medical offices in Castile and León closed, the Junta de Castile and León generates a surplus of close to 450 million euros, thanks to transfers from the Government of Spain, since the mobilization of resources owning the Junta de Castile and León has been very scarce or almost non-existent. I just want to say that in Valladolid, my city, the city council has invested more in the companies and the autonomous of the city than in the whole of the Junta de Castilla y León. The PP service sheet, which has governed for the past thirty-five years, is the record of the loss of human capital, estimated at 285 000 people in the past twenty years, since Mañueco entered the first council in which he was responsible, both in rural and urban areas. Thousands of well-trained young people come out of our community every year, so necessary to foster entrepreneurship and SMEs and give my land a future. A throng of corruption and clientelism during these thirty-five years, which blocked the investment of companies in our territory if there had not been the consequent bite, being sadly known in business areas such as Sicily and León. The wind farm, the Gürtel plot, Púnica, leads to the opening of the oral hearing in very few days and until the previous president of the Junta de Castilla y León, Juan Vicente Herrera, has to testify in this case. [[a Member of the European Parliament: The EREs]] This continues to happen, it continues to scare investors from Castile and León. I think we will all have received in our corporate mail that a SME has had to go to the courthouse to the Junta de Castilla y León for the sabotage of a biorefinery project in Barcial del Barco, Zamora, which was going to directly generate two hundred jobs in a region that is epicenter of depopulation, where you have left us in these thirty-five years. Castile and León is a land of serious, hardworking and honest people. We don't deserve to be anyone's fluff in their delusional ambition to enter the Moncloa, with elections still far away. Two years ago, in an office in Madrid, Truncaro, the change he won in the polls with his citizens' partners, and now it is again the Madrid offices that anticipate early elections, thinking of their judicial processes, their internal power games, all but the citizens of Castile and León. [[Applauds]] Rule for what? They were told by a leader of his party: Rule for what? We do not know, because with this trajectory in Castile and León practically what you have presented is the same electoral programme of 1987, that is, instead of pesetas, you have passed it to euros, but it is exactly the same. Thirty-five years abandoned; that is the reality we suffer in our land. As for the 13th of February, a day that will surely also be of change and hope, as it was two years ago, I would thank you, for the good of our business fabric, because we are a focus of attraction because there are no other elections, that give a more complete idea of what Castilla and León is, of its SMEs, of its entrepreneurs, of its autonomous, of the universities and of the ability to innovate that the primary sector has. We would ask that Mr Casado stop acting like a new Frank on the farm and give a better image of our rural environment, where, apart from animals, people live, an ageing population that needs a lot from the public services that you cut off and those that you are depriving them of. Returning to the initiative we are presenting today, the introduction of the amendment to the Transparency Act will make it possible to know the degree of recruitment of SMEs in the public administration, to identify possible legal measures to be taken into consideration that will improve their participation in the public sector, to analyse the evolution of the public policies implemented with the aim of improving the participation of SMEs in public procurement and to detect good practices of participation of SMEs in the different administrations. We therefore look forward to your positive vote on this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u34	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that when I saw that the Socialist Party had put forward a proposal for a law on transparency I thought: how brave are these of the Socialist Group who are finally going to amend their government! [[Applauds]] After a thousand and two hundred breaches of the Transparency Act, they finally dare to bring an initiative to Parliament so that the government can correct this situation and we can at last know how many trips they have made in the Falcon, how much they cost, what people they have travelled, how they make them coincide, for example, with those electoral events, which seems to be elections in Castile and León, so we have been told by the socialist spokesman today, and we know that the trips coincide with party events. Also, with this amendment of the law, we will be able to know about this famous trip to the United States, that the other day in the debate.com we could see that there was no data of how many people there were, how much they cost the flights, how much was spent on taxis, how much was spent on hotels, how much was spent on maintenance, etc. A lot of issues that the Government has an obligation to address and which, by relying on a pre-democratic law, remains undisputed. I therefore believe that it was a good time to bring a proposal for transparency to know what the Government is doing. Everything that refuses to do, to say and to tell, how are these a thousand and two hundred times that has refused to give information or, I insist, like that trip to nowhere that was made to try to prove that you had something to say in the United States and that it was proved - and therefore no data has been given - that it was a trip in vain, but, yes, paid for by all the Spaniards. And if you want transparency, start now and let us know with transparency how each euro of those European funds that are going to come to Spain will be used. It is a good time to demonstrate - with facts - that you are committed to transparency. [[Applauds]] So, less demagogy. Do not take advantage of a subject like this to campaign in Castile and León, which I believe they have enough in the community to do that own campaign and, of course, it will be the neighbours and citizens of that community who will, of course, decide freely on 13 February the outcome of those elections. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u36	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u37	Thank you, President. SMEs generate the most jobs in the European Union. They accounted for more than 98% of enterprises, but only 40% of public procurement had been implemented, at best, and the barriers to access were numerous and diverse. In this regard, Europe has already taken steps to promote greater participation of SMEs in public procurement through the European Code of Good Practice to facilitate access to SMEs and public procurement, and subsequently through Directives 24 and 25, which have been laid down here in the Public Sector Contracts Act 2017, and in the 2020 Decree, which regulates the procurement of water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, called excluded sectors. By the way, laws that lay the groundwork for promoting the participation of a key collective in the economy - the SME - public tenders as principal contractors or subcontractors, removing barriers, creating opportunities for a part of the business fabric and favouring, on the other hand, the Administration, because this entails greater competition, better price and higher quality. In spite of facilitating access to public procurement for SMEs, we do not have data on their participation in public procurement, which leads us to ignore, on the one hand, whether such participation has increased and, if it has not increased, their causes, let alone the measures to be taken to improve such participation in their case. And it's that to make decisions we understand that data is needed. Today, public procurement does not, of course, offer us the necessary rigour or detail. For example, a button: the three-year report 2018, 2019, 2020 of the State Public Procurement Advisory Board 2021 in the block referring to the level of participation of SMEs in public procurement says that the statistics contained in this report should be considered with extreme prudence, given the precariousness of the sources that support it. That is why we agree that the administrations subject to the Transparency Act must also publish the percentage of contracts awarded to these companies, although we think that we should go further: try to have those data more disaggregated, which allows us even to know with much more rigour the level of contracts obtained by small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to large ones, for example. In addition, as stated in the bill, a GNP approved by the Industry Commission in June is being implemented. It is true that among its many points it was urged, on the one hand, to encourage SME participation in public tenders and, on the other hand, to produce statistics on SME participation. However, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, since you have brought this non-legislative proposal to the fore, here I would like to remind you that an amendment was also included not only to increase SME participation in public procurement, but also to allow SMEs to receive aid within the legal time frame of both the public administration and the large companies that contract with the administration and receive aid. Its purpose, in fact, is ultimately to comply with the Morosity Act, because what good is it for them to be able to access more public procurement if they then do not charge in time, with all that this entails. That is why we understand that this is a step forward and we will vote in favour, but do not forget that there are other things in that GNP that have also been approved, such as the issue of lateness, which is still pending. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u38	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Del Valle, what a piece of paper you have been made to do today when you come to have to recover what your leader and candidate in Castile and León lost yesterday in the debate at the hands of a gentleman who was at his house ; in the same way that the other representative of bipartisanship, Mr Mañueco, who in a lesson of transparency, which is what we have to talk about here today, would have to remind you that please answer the question of what a health adviser was doing by meeting a contract contractor a few days ago in secret and violating the agreements precisely on transparency in Castile and León. [[applause]] We are going to vote yes to this proposal for a law, because it seems to us positive to reform Law 19/2013, of transparency, above all to have - which is the object of this law - statistics on public contracts that are tendered and awarded to micro-enterprises and SMEs. In this, as I say, we will always find the liberals, because we have proved to be the party of regeneration and transparency, as we have demonstrated precisely in the land from which you come, in Castile and León, while they have left us, of course, because in transparency and in regeneration to Citizens we will not be won by anyone. But so far, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE; and I say so far because unfortunately we can no longer say much more about this reform. If one can say - it is mentioned - what appears in the explanatory statement of the text - moreover it has already been mentioned - when you literally say in that proposal that, first, SMEs represent 99.8% of the total business fabric, represent more than 62 % of gross value added and 64 % of total business employment, although really on the ministry page - you should know, because it is so published - it is already 72. In addition, SME participation in public procurement procedures is essential for economic activity in EU member countries. And it also says this statement of reasons that in 2017 it was estimated that the percentage of public contracts awarded only to small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises was 29.45 %, far from the desired ratio. That is to say, the reform we really need is that of transparency, but also correct the low percentage of small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises receiving public contracts. In fact, after eight or nine minutes of your speech, Mr Del Valle, you spoke about the GNP approved by the Committee on Industry in June 2021, which laid down, among other things, that measure of transparency in the procurement of small businesses. The problem, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, is that of all those measures approved in that GNP - which was also yours - we only have news of this, which is to do a statistics on public contracts for small businesses, but there is no news to date of any other real measures aimed at tackling the problem. You want to do statistics on the problem, but you don't want to propose solutions to the problem itself. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you have a lack of legislative ambition and an excess of propaganda; you act as in the pandemic, putting patches and only with improvisation in your measures, but what is needed are reforms, something that the liberals have already told you, which is what is really needed for Spain, for its citizens and, of course, for its entrepreneurs. The measure you intend to establish is to measure and evaluate how many public contracts are awarded annually to micro and small businesses, but it does not contain anything else to encourage public procurement by these companies. You have sought a diagnosis, but you do not provide any solution. They do not mention the other measures that are also in this GNP, how to improve the participation ratios of SMEs in public procurement, taking advantage of the possibilities offered by the Law on Public Sector Contracts or the Green Public Procurement Plan of the General Administration of the State, its autonomous bodies and the managing bodies of Social Security. They do not mention anything about promoting innovative public procurement, for which early public procurement maps will be drawn up to enable SMEs to prepare for access to demand, nor do they mention anything about making non-harmonised contracts more public, which, by their characteristics, are more accessible to SMEs. This is literally what you said in that GNP that was approved in June 2021. None of these measures are on the horizon of the legislation that you are promoting, but they are also the measures that are needed precisely to favour micro-enterprises and SMEs in the field of public procurement, as the OIReScon has said in the annual action report for 2020. The problem is that, as has also been said, the funds are now being received in Spain, in the largest amount that has ever come from Europe, precisely in order to implement structural reforms. The money is already here and Spanish companies continue to have exactly the same problems and obstacles they had in accessing these funds through public procurement. His spokesman for that GNP, Mr Soler, said that, in addition to having statistics, other measures had to be taken which were, precisely, effective in order to be able to introduce the possibility of booking contracts for small and medium-sized enterprises in procurement with the Administration. The question is, where are those measures? Remember that that GNP was debated, as we said, in June 2021, but it is that you presented it in March 2020. You have been in the Socialist Party for almost two years proposing that measures should be taken that would actually favour the entry of micro-enterprises and SMEs into public procurement and have done nothing. Mr Soler already said in that GNP that in 2018 only 28% of the successful tenderers for public procurement procedures were small and medium-sized enterprises, well below the EU average, which put this percentage at 52%. And we repeat, where are those measures? The last three-year report of 2018, 2019 and 2020 of the State Public Procurement Advisory Board of April 2021 says that more than 99% of SMEs, which are SMEs and micro-enterprises, only obtain 63% of contracts, but represent only 42% of the economic value. The problem is that this information, moreover, is not even disaggregated, so we also do not know which companies are really micro-enterprises, medium-sized or small. I repeat the question, where are those measures? Mr Del Valle and ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, take this as advice rather than criticism. Take steps to make progress in public procurement and in promoting public procurement for small and medium-sized enterprises, but above all, do so now, because if this reform goes ahead and we start to make statistics, all we're going to get is to get the colors out of you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u40	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u41	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote yes. Having said that, I will make some considerations. I thought that we had suspended next week's plenary session so that your ladies and gentlemen, to whom they belong, could campaign, and that is why we are campaigning this week from this rostrum, but I see that no one escapes from that. Therefore, I suggest that for the next elections we do not suspend anything and that the electoral campaigns do so from here, so we record our videos and pass them through our social networks. Having said that, I turn to the second consideration. We are going to vote that yes, we have already said so and that we agree, but my question is whether this proposal for a law, this amendment to the Transparency Act, which consists of adding a small four-line paragraph, fifty words, to Article 8(1)(a), is really urgent and necessary, could they not have included it in some of the more than sixty royal decrees-laws that we have passed or'validated in this legislature? Because, of course, it is not understood that we are now going to set up a legislative paper, that we are going to convene a Commission, to amend fifty words - including articles and conjunctions - to simply tell public administrations that of all their contracts, apart from mentioning minor contracts and quantifying what types of contracts set out each level of administration, they also say whether they have been awarded to SMEs or not. It would be easier and would really be justified by urgency and by the legislative procedural economy. Having said that, let's get to the point. They are concerned about micro and small and medium-sized enterprises. So far we're doing fine. I repeat what a small businessman told me, who was telling me to move him to the whole House and move him to the whole House: SMEs need less marketing and more real regulation than they get to SMEs. One has the feeling that we do a lot of political marketing with SMEs but I don't know if we regulate effectively in relation to them. SMEs now have a serious cash flow problem often caused by the fact that they are being paid within a time frame that is not acceptable, and that is what all your ladies and gentlemen are aware of. What have we done in what goes on in the legislature? I can tell you what we've done. We have put forward a proposal for a law - not like this one, which will surely have more fortune than the one presented by the Democratic Party - to establish a sanctioning regime for corporate lateness. It takes almost a year and a half to have time for your ladies and gentlemen to think about the amendments and resubmit amendments week after week, month after month and we are already year after year. What businesses need is early collection and small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, what they need is not to be statistically told how many public contracts they end up being awarded, but to be given access to public procurement. When the Public Procurement Act was processed, we took an important step. As rapporteur myself, and together with other colleagues, I have made some amendments - some of which we have been on the road to consensus approval - to facilitate access to small and medium-sized enterprises and also to make it easier for subcontracted undertakings from the contracting companies to charge when they were involved. But it's not enough, it's clear it's not enough. Is this measure bad? No, no, Are you going to solve something for small and medium-sized enterprises? Neither. Are you going to give us data that we already know and that we can assume? Yes, but the problem is not that small and medium-sized enterprises - which account for almost 90% of all enterprises in the State as a whole, which account for a large percentage of job creation and the added value generated in that State - do not have their corresponding share in public procurement. We are not going to fix this by means of statistics; we would have to fix it by amending the Public Sector Contracts Act, to which the majority groups are not willing, and the majority groups are not willing. We therefore approve it, applaud it and tell them that we would even be willing to validate it by means of a royal decree-law without parliamentary procedure, which they like or want. Now we are going to do so by means of a bill to which - I repeat - I wish much more luck than we have presented for the regime sanctioning corporate lateness. In any case, sometimes there are coincidences that generate that things can unravel. I hope this is also the case. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u42	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u43	Good afternoon. I want to share with you the pain of our group for the death of our colleague in the Miguel Aubà Senate, whom we mourn and long for, we will mourn and we will long for in personal and political terms. [[Pronounce words in Catalan.-Applause]] Nothing particularly revolutionary in this bill brought to us by government parties, the amendment of the Law on Transparency and Good Governance, which adds the possibility of publishing information about SMEs' access to public procurement. Mr Bel has so well defined the detail of this initiative that it saves me part of the speech. Of course, we agree with any improvement, however small it may be, in favour of transparency and information; information that we hope will then be used to articulate actions that will facilitate and improve SMEs' access to public procurement, given the evidence of the multiple obstacles they have to overcome in the face of the dominance of Bernabéu stage companies. They comply with this reform - as you say in the explanatory statement - with a GNP which the Socialist Group has tabled in the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Good for that too; you know that the chascarrillo is usually left with the three words of 'proposition not of law', the most important is that of in the middle which is 'no', it usually serves nothing. [[Applauds]] I am pleased that they are rescuing a GNP - it has been unheard of by a forgotten GNP in a drawer - which serves to carry out concrete measures. I think this is the spirit that we must give to all GNP. We understand, yes, that as this bill is yours it will pass without delay through the various filters of the Bureau and soon it will be a reality. But what, gentlemen of the government groups, is happening with all those measures also presented as proposals for legislation, with no palliative importance for SMEs but which, by their conjuration, are still frozen in the course of the amendments? I am referring, of course, to the proposal for a law mentioned by Mr Bel, which we have both defended several groups of different coats and which has been frozen for ten months at the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies - disqualifying which Mr Bel has directed to them - I have to consider them moderate, probably because of their convalescence - or because of their proposal to fight against corporate lateness, which includes a sanctioning regime as a key mechanism to discourage this practice that no one is already missing. Or what about other vital measures for thousands of SMEs and self-employed workers, such as the moratorium recently demanded by the Catalan employer Cecot? Imagine yourself being a small company in the middle of the sixth wave, with thousands and thousands of people infected every day, with an increase in casualties and with impossibility of developing a normal activity. According to data from this body, one in three companies has seen their activity reduced or had to close production lines, including business, due to lack of personnel, for casualties. A survey published by Pimec also shows that from 20 December to 17 January 70% of Catalan companies have had temporary incapacity leavers. We have experienced this in this House, because due to a layoff by COVID the discussion of labour reform has been delayed. On the other hand, the income of the quarter of VAT - without VAT - was met without fail yesterday. How can normal operation be required in these circumstances? For this reason, flexibility was requested from the Spanish Government and an extension of only thirty days was proposed in order to be able to properly submit VAT or social security declarations. What has the PSOE and Unite Podemos government done? Nothing, comrades; to enter when playing. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, apply this same sentiment and sensitivity first friendly to all acts and in all areas of their action. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u44	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u45	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is now debating a short, three-page bill with a single article, which aims to amend Law 19/2013 of 9 December on transparency, access to public information and good governance. As explained above, its purpose is to publish annual statistical information on the percentage of participation in contracts awarded to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises for each of the procedures provided for in public sector contract law. It is difficult to find arguments against a measure which, in any case, can only abound in greater transparency in the management of public resources. Eventually, it will also make it possible to carry out diagnoses for the design and implementation of public policies and the evaluation of them. Public procurement in Spain accounts for between 10 % and 20 % of GDP, on the basis of different estimates, and in the context of the European Union this percentage stands at 14 %. That is, not only does it involve extraordinary resource mobilization, but it is also built up as a powerful tool to influence our productive model. It must therefore enable us to improve the productivity of our economy, while ensuring greater social justice quotas, promoting, for example, the inclusion of precarious or directly expelled sectors, promoting a rapid and harmonious ecological transition and promoting values that our society today sees as good and necessary, such as tolerance, diversity and complementarity. It must also serve as a lever for our SMEs to participate equally in the production of public goods and common services. In fact, there have already been regulatory developments in Spain in this area. Mr. Citizen Spokesman, you said nothing had been done. I invite you to take a hemerotec hand and review what has been done in recent times, because I would like to recall, for example, the Royal Decree-Law 3/2020 of 4 February, which already incorporated support measures for SMEs that have gone clearly beyond what was provided for in the Community directives on public procurement that the Royal Decree-Law was called upon to transpose. This is just an example. We are also aware that the Ministry of Finance is making the relevant changes to the public sector procurement platform to enable the collection of data on SME participation in public procurement. Therefore, the measures taken in this initiative share this direction and consolidate it, as they are also included in the Strategic Framework for SME Policy 2030, whose objective is to set up a framework for action for Spanish public administrations, identifying mechanisms to improve the competitiveness of SMEs and their potential for growth. The socialist proposal focuses on the production of statistics, a term coined by the Prussian economist Gottfried Achenwall in the 18th century as a necessary appendix of the state. Therefore, and in reality, the application of mathematical logic to the practice of the State is almost simultaneously at the birth of the State. Since census-taking in the Greek state cities, numbers of the common have always been produced with a deeply pragmatic sense, and at the beginning, by the way, almost exclusively focused on the financial survival of the state itself, that is, on the collection of taxes and taxes. In any case, there is no abstract elaboration of the statistics. Its use, its construction, is always and necessarily linked to a practical purpose. Not only does it seek to observe, but it seeks to influence from the beginning. In other words, statistics, any statistics, are already politically oriented. In this case, this initiative states that its intention is nothing other than to ensure greater participation of SMEs in the provision of goods and services to the State and, thereby, to facilitate the development of these by means of productivity improvements, greater economies of scale, in line with the objectives of environmental sustainability and equal opportunities set out in Agenda 2030. Without a doubt, it is a laudable and also ambitious goal, why not? It is precisely for this reason that, while we share the relevance of the measures discussed here, this initiative knows us little by little, we have something short, as some other spokespersons have already anticipated, more when using a high-calibre regulatory device such as that of a proposed law. For example, this procedure could be used to create an observatory that would actively monitor the deployment of measures that are being carried out, that will be carried out shortly, that will identify and value the extent to which the available statistics allow for the development of adjusted diagnoses, in which measures unplanned deviations arise from the plans drawn up, etc. Measures could also be taken in relation to public procurement, apart from any prior information, because they are fair and consistent with what is already being done. I am thinking, for example, of a ban on hiring companies or groups based in tax havens. It might well be that this was not a statistical problem and yet it would be unfair for it to occur, even if only once. In this regard, we hope that the Government will soon be able to present a national public procurement strategy that will guide and order both the measures already taken and those to be taken in the coming years. Undoubtedly, the power of the tool deserves to develop a multi-annual plan of these characteristics that is able, precisely, to express all these potentialities. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u46	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u47	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, for once - some people will find it strange to say this - I agree with what Mr Bel has said. Indeed, I thought we were going to come here and listen to the spokesman for the PSOE to present a proposal for a law on the amendment of the Law on Transparency and Good Governance to collect the obligation to make statistics on the volume of public procurement that affects micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and we have found that Mr Del Valle - not me, the other, that of the PSOE - has given us a campaign rally on Castile and León. So that's why I said I'd match up for once with Mr. Bel. I focus on the subject, on what is on the agenda. We have already stated on several occasions that at that time - one of the previous speakers has also seen it this way - what concerns small and medium-sized enterprises most about their relationship with public administrations and with the whole network of public bodies and enterprises is the lack of diligence in the payment of public procurement prices. There is tremendous delay, and not only that, but, in specific public works, there are works that had small implementation times that affect small and medium-sized enterprises and that in many cases have had to be abandoned. As early as April, the VOX Parliamentary Group proposed a non-legislative proposal that the Government would take steps to avoid such late payment by public administrations to small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed and was rejected with the votes of the entire left of this House. In June, in the Committee on Industry, Trade and Tourism, when the proposal for a law on which this proposal is based was debated and approved, we also tabled an amendment, not only calling for a late payment plan to avoid this delay in the payment of public procurement prices affecting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also a sanctioning regime, and its Socialist Party members, members of that committee, did not want to accept the amendment. They preferred to accept a light, decaffeinated amendment, in which it was only mentioned that the Government was being urged to take steps to avoid that lateness, but they did not at all want to pick up the punishing party, which we believe is essential. On the other hand, just over a month ago, in this same Chamber we were discussing a non-legislative proposal on the possibility of amending the Law on Public Sector Contracts, as well as the Law on Desindexation of the Spanish Economy, in the sense that the requirements that the current legislation requires for the modification of prices and public contracts, which, as was said here, mainly affected small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that are suffering the most from the rise of materials, the other day we heard that aluminum has risen by over 200 %; wood by 70. They're crazy prices, and it's those small and medium-sized enterprises, which you say you want to help, the ones that are suffering them. Well, that non-law proposal was also rejected by your left-wing lordships. [[Applauds]] And now they talk here about wanting to help small and medium-sized enterprises, which want small and medium-sized enterprises to be awarded public contracts, and the only thing they bring is that they publish statistics on the volume of public procurement that affects them, and they also do so by amending the Law on Transparency and Good Governance, rather than the Law on Public Sector Contracts. And I was wondering why, and I have the clear answer: they want to wash their image. They are the most opaque government in the history of democracy in Spain. [[Applauds]] They appointed a President of the Transparency and Good Government Council who was rejected by the transparency associations. The press immediately pulled headlines saying that he was a person linked to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and that he could not chair a council whose function is, among other things, the control of the Government. He gave them the same, they appointed him, and the first thing he did was to go to Mrs Calvo's office, then Vice-President of the Government, and then to Mr Bolaños, then Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Government, to receive political slogans, for the next day to ceas the Deputy Director-General of Complaints of the Transparency Council, Mrs Zambrano, because she had dared to ask the data of the use of the Falcon by the President of the Government and because she had given the Government a period of ten days to present the list of those unknown members of the advisory commission in the first part of the VOCID pandemic. [[Applauds]] It was fulminated. There were headlines throughout the press; I liked Digital Journalist the most, who said that the dirt on the Transparency Council doesn't even go with Cillit Bang. That's magnificent. But there have been all kinds of them. It is rare that, with the amount of subsidies you give to the media, there has been unanimity in which there is dirt and little transparency. As I have little time left, although another spokesman has already said, I would like to remind you of what the ABC said yesterday: 1200 proceedings against the Transparency Act. [[shows the press clipping of the ABC newspaper]] And, besides, they use...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u48	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u49	...a Francoist law of official secrets, which must give them rashes. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the Members of the House of Commons of VOX, put on their feet]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u50	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Postigo Quintana has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Law 19/2013 of 9 December on transparency, access to public information and good governance is the first and only national law adopted in democracy on this matter. The adoption of a law on transparency was a social demand that allowed no further delay. It should be an indispensable instrument for giving citizens the right of control over political and administrative power. It was a fact and a historical milestone. Ladies and gentlemen, a question aloud: Was it the left, perhaps nationalism or independence, who promoted the adoption of this law, who gave the necessary votes to carry it forward? Was it the Socialist Party? The answer is simple: bluntly, no. Ladies and gentlemen, memory exercises are very healthy. The Transparency Act was a law of President Rajoy's government and that the PSOE tried to boycott by abandoning the paper with stridentity and bad manners, breaking the agreements reached and rejecting negotiation and consensus. The Socialist Group thus became one of the groups which voted against introducing for the first time into Spanish legislation a rule to make public administrations transparent and promote good governance. Now, more than three years after the PSOE has been in government, we have a bill that speaks well about Rajoy's Transparency Act and that is limited to introducing a paragraph to establish the obligation to provide annual statistical data on public procurement with SMEs. We hoped, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, that, as they voted against this law, they will now use it to modify, change or replace many parts of it, perhaps a reform to cover up that the Sánchez government is the most opaque of the democratic period or to whitewash the use of Falcon. But nothing at all. So, what do you want, ladies and gentlemen? The Socialist Group bases its proposal on obtaining more statistical data on the degree of recruitment of public administrations with SMEs. The ultimate aim of the explanatory statement is to increase the participation of SMEs in public procurement, but since this is the subject of the proposal, what is proposed by the Socialist Group to facilitate the recruitment of SMEs in the public sector? Nothing at all. All is limited to having more statistical data on the percentage of recruitment, but no specific support to the company. Ladies and gentlemen, do not tell me that this GNP presented by the PSOE is not empty. To want to change the law to demand more information from public administrations and companies seems rather a mockery, as this is the most opaque and darkest government in all Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] Between 1 January 2019 and 31 December 2021, the Transparency Council issued 1203 resolutions - it is said here several times - in which it points out and indicates that the Government improperly denied the information requested by citizens. It is paradoxical to note that, in order to conceal the information of their bad practices, they are also protected, in some cases, by the Francoist law of official secrets. What hypocrisy and cynicism. This Francoist law, according to the Transparency Council, is being misused by the Government to hide compromising files. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, the statistics of the Transparency Council on the Central Administration show that since Sánchez's arrival in Moncloa in mid-2018, cases have been triggered exponentially in which the Government and its ministers fail to comply with the resolutions of the Transparency Council by misinterpreting the assumptions provided for in this law, according to the Council itself, in order to conceal information that must be public. The breach of the President's promises of transparency has been so flagrant and so repeated and abusive that he has become a leader in the concealment of information. It is dishonest and an incredible defachation to want to know and have information about others being the most opaque and the least transparent. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we already know why you voted against it in 2013. The left in general, and the sanchism in particular, are the antithesis of transparency. They didn't want to, and they didn't want to be controlled. In relation to SMEs, I mean that I am from Segovia, Castile and León, and that I have been an entrepreneur and self-employed throughout my working life, thirty-five years, until I came here to Congress, so I think I know something about this. When it has ruled the PSOE, the business middle class, the SMEs, have been the great forgotten and the great losers. Last year, Mr Sánchez's government took over one of the oldest companies in Segovia, the Joint Base, with two hundred and fifty years behind its back and in which approximately two hundred people work. In the next two or three years he will disappear from Segovia. Also last year Mr Sánchez's Government cancelled the administrative concession of the three Segovian ski slopes in Navacerrada, taking forward, literally, nearly two hundred other jobs and putting the tourism sector associated with winter sport at risk of bankruptcy. He is now in court, but from Segovia and with the support of the Junta de Castilla León and with President Mañueco at the head we will defend with all our strength the ski resort and all the companies that generate employment in our land. [[Applauds]] So please, Mr Del Valle - that of the Socialist Party - do not tell us about depopulation, when they attack and load companies from sectors that keep our peoples alive. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, they demand that the government stop harming communications in Castile and León. And I cannot forget the important service sector in Segovia. There are aids that have not yet arrived in Segovia, neither the hoteliers nor the restaurateurs nor the commerce. No help.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u52	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u53	Where are the 7 billion approved in March last year in direct aid? Of course, in Segovia no euro. I'm done, Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u54	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u55	Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, please arrive at the aid to companies, which can be paid in due time, and stop closing companies by political decisions. Of course, we will vote yes, because we consider that the more information... [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u56	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u57	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on boosting connectivity and 5G technology in areas affected by depopulation. For the presentation of the initiative and of the amendment tabled, Mr Fagundez Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing here a non-legislative proposal with the aim, again, of combating depopulation in this country. We do so with the aim, and in line with the Government of Spain, that in the coming years 100 percent of the population of Spain will have 100 percent coverage in digital and connectivity throughout the national territory. And we do this, in this case, through the distribution and extension of the 5G, a technology that will allow us to carry the fiber or the extension of broadband to those very remote population nuclei and whose geographical location, spelling problems and, above all, their population dispersion prevented it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, unfortunately you always leave the Government of Spain alone in the fight against depopulation, even though you govern in many of the territories that suffer depopulation, as is the case with my territory, Castile and León. They leave only the Government of Spain, the only one that is taking action and measures to be able to fight this scourge that we have. In addition, we must denounce Mr. Casado's irresponsibility in this election campaign. First of all, it has called us to an election in the middle of the pandemic. It has also condemned us not to have a budget to be able to invest the European funds, able to get us out of the economic crisis suffered by the pandemic. But the most serious thing Mr Casado is doing is that he has gone to the territory to torpedo, in this permanent action of erosion to the Government, those projects that the Government of Spain is taking to Castile and León to generate opportunities in the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to this government's decentralization plan, we are going to bring specific projects to each of the provinces; to mine, to Zamora, specifically, the return of the military to the Monte la Reina military camp, a project that is not only going to be at the forefront of research and development in the province, but will allow 4,000 people to arrive in Zamora, a province that bleeds every year populationally. However, the last happy idea Mr Casado had was to go to Castile and León to threaten to bring the President of the Government to court for announcing a progress in the Council of Ministers on this project. These are their aid to the Junta de Castilla y León and its citizens in their struggle for depopulation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u60	I have to tell you that this strategy is going to go wrong again. You dug up Mr Aznar the other day to campaign, and that is the same thing I am telling you now from this rostrum: to leave the territory, to leave the citizens of Castile and León, in the uses that Mr Married has, in that fight with Mrs Ayuso to lead the People's Party. The strategy's not going to work out for them. Now they intend to hide Mr. Casado and Mr. Aznar. But the only ones who are not going to shut up are the citizens of Castile and León, who already know them well, after the thirty-five years that have ruled that autonomous community. [[Applauds]] Now they come to explain to us that this depopulation is little less than a biblical misfortune, a biblical plague, in which you have absolutely nothing to do with it. The reality is that during those thirty-five years in which you have ruled, you have not taken a single initiative to combat depopulation. As I said, they have left the Spanish Government alone at the head of the fight against depopulation. And, in the face of their inaction during these years, other autonomous communities, such as Aragon and Castile-La Mancha, grew up in population, with problems very similar to those we have. What you have achieved is that 250,000 citizens of Castile and León have had to leave the territory. That's his inheritance, the poisoned inheritance of all these years. They have dismantled public systems, especially health, and so it is impossible, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, for this territory to have a future. But we are not going to get carried away by that inaction that you are carrying out from the government. We will continue to work from the Government of Spain to carry out these specific projects that generate opportunity in the territory, we will develop this budget, which contains more than 10 billion euros to fight against depopulation and we will develop these one hundred and thirty measures, which will bet on digitisation, which will bet on the maintenance of basic services, which will bet on generating employment and wealth in the territory, in the face of all this inaction, in the face of the lack of public policies that you are showing in this area. And I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to say to you that, despite the management done during these thirty-five years, this government will continue to work for the citizens of Castile and León to offer them a future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position on this occasion, first of all Mr Guitarte Gimeno, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, for my part, I will try to focus more on the issue of GNP. And we are grateful that, through this initiative for the deployment of telecommunications networks to address the demographic challenge, parliamentary groups are progressively approaching our Plan 100-30-30 to provide physical accessibility and digital connectivity to areas of the country suffering from territorial imbalances: thirty minutes to a service centre, thirty kilometres to a high-capacity road and one hundred mega-symmetrical speeds of access to the Internet. The statement of reasons for GNP seeks to link the deployment of new telecommunications and the economic development of all people in any geographical area, an issue on which we agree, but in this matter, as in others, it is necessary that the principles set out in this House become laws, that the development of regulations and the action of all administrations remain consistent with the same principles, and that is not yet the case. Moreover, it is necessary that the plans approved by the Government move from the role to the practical one effectively, as should be the case with the Plan for Connectivity and Digital Infrastructures and the 5G Technology Impulse Strategy, adopted on 1 December 2020, the first axis of which aims at the extension of broadband in order to promote territorial vertebration, including measures to encourage the deployment of broadband in depopulated areas. More than a year later, we are now being offered a PNL on impulse to 5G connectivity and technology in areas affected by depopulation. Does this mean that the aforementioned plan is not working? Or is it necessary to remind the Government itself to effectively develop the measures already adopted? Ladies and gentlemen, digital connectivity for all means that broadband and the 5G network must be available to those living in rural areas and in areas affected by depopulation and that all people have access to digital culture and develop basic digital skills. The Government, administrations and businesses must therefore promote a digital culture that is friendly to all age groups and social groups, with training strategies that reach the elderly and those living in small towns and deprived areas. And in order for telecommunications to drive the correction of territorial imbalances, our amendments advocate that the deployment of the 5G network be carried out with the aim of ending the digital divide, starting with the territories that are behind, with a priority order that we estimate in the following: that it begin with the provinces that the government has included in the map of regional state aid according to population density...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u63	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u64	...to continue with the contiguous regions, which have a very similar depopulation problem and to continue with the provinces with a density of less than 25 inhabitants/km2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u65	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u66	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. The GNP that the Socialist Party is presenting to us today has a very good lyrics and music, but we also think from Cantabria that urging the government in this matter is very necessary right now, and it is very timely because the government needs to be pressured, and I believe that most Members of the Socialist Group do not know to what extent it is necessary to make the investments envisaged in the European funds. At the Ministry's seminar last week with the Autonomous Communities for the implementation of the November decree regulating the granting of direct aid from the funds of the Recovery Plan, it has been difficult to carry out the activities of the very high speed broadband networks, mainly because of the obligation to be of public ownership, which would leave out many small municipalities, and, secondly, because of the deadline of 31 December 2023. Furthermore, the criterion for defining eligible equipment, depending on whether it is software or hardware, is not clear because of the disparity in criteria between the Government and the autonomous communities, nor is it clear what happens to investments initiated as from 1 February 2020, as the European Union regulation establishing the recovery mechanism says. Fortunately, in Cantabria we are very advanced in this area, because the implementation of the Cantabria Connect Plan, approved in November 2017, has been a total success. 95% of Cantabria's population has broadband, 57 municipalities have received grants for 71 projects, and this has been fundamental in the time of the pandemic. We do not want to think about what would have happened with regard to teleworking and many other issues with regard to so many people and in so many areas of Cantabria without it. It must be remembered that citizens also value how much and how well some public administrations do, such as the Industry Council and the Presidential Council of the Government of Cantabria, both in the hands of regionalists. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we are going to vote in favour, but they must pass on to those responsible for the government who have to put the batteries on. We are not only playing with money, but also the possibility of acting in critical situations and the future of the next generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u67	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u68	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I thought the debate on the elections to the Junta de Castilla y León was last night, but, after the meeting of Mr Del Valle and also Mr Fagundez, it is seen that it is to this rostrum where Castilla y León has to be brought to collation. This is the most opportunistic initiative I have ever seen, and the truth is that there was competition. One of the government's parties wants to take measures aimed at boosting 5G connectivity and technology to help curb depopulation in rural areas; in the words of Mr Fagundez, fighting depopulation. And, look, I don't know how to say this to you without being rude, but... type a little bit, because, while you bring this non-law proposal here, your government is processing a telecommunications law that doesn't include a single measure of what you bring in this non-law proposal. [[Applauds]] Moreover, they have not even introduced any of these measures in the amendments that are being dealt with on the telecommunications law. And I ask you: When have you changed your mind about the extent of 5G fiber and depopulation, before or after the call for elections in Castile and León? Because, oh, by chance!, the inhabitants of rural areas are the majority right in the community that is now in electoral campaign. It said the great Francisco Quevedo that no one offers as much as the one who will not fulfill. Ensuring that a citizen has more or less rights on the basis of birth or residence is a maximum intrinsic to our liberal project, and this implies that Spanish people are not allowed to have access to the same services as those living in cities because they live in sparsely populated rural areas. Since 2019, where it is represented in the governments, Citizens have been pushing the orange plan against depopulation, and, for example, this has been done at the Junta de Castilla y León, where, thanks to the action of the Spanish liberals and Paco Igea, for the first time in forty years more people are attracted than they are going. We have indeed put forward proposals to facilitate the deployment of 5G in rural and depopulated areas since 2019 - I repeat - but we have also included these proposals in the amendments to the telecommunications law that is currently being processed in Congress. In front of his words, the PSOE words, the real actions of Citizens. Faced with the lack of voluntariness in this initiative, the Citizens' amendments to the telecommunications law, amendments to ensure that citizens in rural areas also have access to an Internet connection of at least one hundred megabytes/second in the short term, amendments to enable the National Market and Competition Commission to carry out speed-of-connection assessments to avoid the existence of a two-speed Internet, that of cities and that of rural areas, and amendments to create a single window, which avoids administrative procedures for the deployment of high-speed networks in depopulated areas, or the elimination of taxes on 5G networks during at least the first five years of service, among other things. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, if the Socialist Group really intends to carry out some of the points in its non-legislative proposal presented here, the best thing you can do is to vote in favour of the Citizens' amendments to the general telecommunications law, because, as regards the toast to the sun of this non-legislative proposal, I tell you that you lack two very important matters and that is why we have amended the proposal. On the one hand, you say nothing about digital skills, and I ask you what we do not to leave out of these opportunities offered by the 5G to those who have not received training on high-speed networks. And on the other hand, you don't talk about cybersecurity. Digitisation is a huge opportunity, and yet as the Internet presence of these users and companies increases, more exposed are going to see new types of risks and cyber attacks, so it is key to invest in strengthening cybersecurity. It's over now. We have tabled an amendment, as I said, to add these two aspects, digital skills and cybersecurity, but I would like to remind you that just a couple of months ago you rejected the Citizens' amendments to the budgets that were in this line of action, so I ask you to be consistent and accept them now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u69	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u70	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group is bringing us today to debate a non-legislative proposal with two issues that are clearly intersecting, and each of them would give or should give perfectly in order to have a deep and measured debate. On the one hand, the question of depopulation, an issue so often announced in this House but so rarely addressed in depth and on which - it is important to say - there are different perspectives on how to address it in this House; I would even say that there are antagonistic perspectives. On the one hand, there is the perspective of the right regarding depopulation, that of those who, after years of destroying public services, of laminating life opportunities for young people in the field of our rural world and, ultimately, of cancelling the opportunities to settle population and economy, today, sadly, repeat the same hypothesis - that is yes, they take pictures in campaign in Castile and León surrounded by pimples - and they instigate - something that is worse and very serious -, explicitly or implicitly, assaults on sites of popular and democratic sovereignty, as we have seen yesterday in Lorca. And from here, the first thing I want to do is send our greetings and support to all the Democrats in Murcia and Lorca for the situation they lived in. [[Applauds]] In short, there is the proposal of the right on depopulation, which is exactly the usual one, mixed in addition with that conservative hypothesis on completely empty birth speeches, and, on the other hand, there is the vision of the left, at least that of the left to which I represent, which is an option that affirms that the best, the only hypothesis to fight against depopulation is to maintain quality public services, to support local economies, circular economies, and proximity economies so that our young people understand that they can have a project of present and future in the rural environment. Secondly, this GNP brings us to debate another fundamental issue, which is connectivity, technological development and, in particular, the development of 5G technology, on which we cannot discuss lightly, without entering into fundamental issues, such as the geopolitical debate as to which global actors and powers are operating and we must take into account for the development of 5G technology with rigour and seriousness. Having said that, of course, our position on this GNP is going to be favourable, of course. Of course, we support, we defend, we carry on our programme and we try to work where we govern on the fact that it is essential to vigorously boost connectivity and technology throughout the territory, and particularly in rural areas. In fact, we have proposed an amendment where we are talking about deepening the coverage of ultra-fast broadband access networks and where we are talking about deepening the coverage of voice and mobility services. When we talk to people from the rural world of our country, unfortunately, after many popular years, particularly in Castile and León, what they tell us is not so much that they need 5G or 4G - of course they do - but they need telephone coverage to call their veterinarian, to call their doctor, to call their family, and that is something fundamental. In any case, as I said, we will support this GNP, and I will express two final reflections on technology and sovereignty. The Americans say that technological sovereignty is a political imperative and say from China that telecommunications is a matter of national security and that for a nation not to have its own facilities in this sector is like having no army. I think it is clear that the deployment of 5G communication networks is being an important part of a geopolitical war in which Europe seems to be in the middle without taking part. I think we need to worry about the role we want to play in this, if we want to play a dependent and subordinate role, dependent on China and subordinate to the United States, or if we really want to invest in R & D+i so that we can play a role as a European actor from European technological sovereignty, if we are going to be kidnapped by powers who want to employ us in their war with China, or if we are going to exercise strategic autonomy and defend a 5G European development in collaboration with other international actors.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u71	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u72	I'm done. In short, ladies and gentlemen, talking about technology is talking about who develops it; that is, whether we want to have technology from Europe or if we just want to buy it from China and the United States, and that is the debate we also need to have. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the Socialist Parliamentary Group only remembers Santa Barbara when it thunders. This afternoon's election has been an electoral initiative, Mr Fagundez, and also unsavory in his intervention. They have tried to position the depopulation debate in the full electoral campaign of Castile and León, as if it had not been Castile and León and a government of the People's Party, with President Herrera at the head, which put the debate on the political agenda of this country at the 2017 Conference of Presidents. [[Applauds]] In your explanatory statement, Your Honor, you refer to the 2030 Agenda to wink at your communist partners in the government, and you must have arrests after the Communist Minister of Consumer Affairs' statements against livestock farming. That's what President Casado has gone to Castile and León, in support of farmers, which is the largest agri-food sector and the most important in productivity for Castile and León. [[The lady]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative is late and has no ambition or commitment. The connectivity of the rural environment was the bet of the People's Party. The Digital Agenda 2014, and the data corroborate it, already found that the more broadband was spread in rural areas, the population grew to 2%, social security membership to 3% and could also increase the per capita income of these populations. Forty per cent of the income of small municipalities with less than two thousand inhabitants is concentrated in only one third of them. You know why? Because they have quality Internet access. And you know why? Thanks to the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I remind you of the three hundred megabytes/second program for 100 percent of the population and the 550 million euros in the 2018 State General Budgets, which allowed quality access to the Internet. And you know what you did? You left this program in the drawer, because you confused it with multiplying in three hundred positions of trust and advisors in one hundred percent of the ministries. [[Applauds]] And you know what they have? Today they have three hundred thousand people in Spain with zero connectivity. They have three quarters of the municipalities with less than two thousand inhabitants, where 5.4 million people live, without quality connectivity or speed; they only have 30 megabytes/second, which is as much as having nothing. And do you know who's in line for fiber optics coverage in Spain? Castile and Leon, the quarters by the tail, and Galicia the last. And at a speed of 100 megabytes/second, Castile and Lion the second by the tail, and also Galicia. Does this have anything to do with the distribution of reconstruction, transformation and resilience funds? We will be attentive to the control, implementation and distribution criteria that the government will have to make in the budgets that it has marked in the Digital Agenda of 2025; there we will be from our control function. [[Applauds]] The initiative has no ambition or commitment, because the role endures everything, and we, from the People's Parliamentary Group, have complemented it. We need a mechanism of compensation from public funds in conditions of transparency to ensure the provision throughout the territory and that access to the Internet is universal, compensating operators who do not reach where they are not profitable. They have also forgotten that the digital divide is compounded by the social divide, and the deployment of the 5G cannot become an element of exclusion from the rural environment because of the lack of digital capacities, which are typical of the circumstances of this population and also of the small size of these enterprises. Deployment must therefore be accompanied by a digital training programme through innovative social initiatives and public-private collaboration. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a Vice-President and Minister for the Demographic Challenge who, in each of her policies, water, environment, energy, is sectarian and attacks rural fear. When you want to get to 5G, there's no one left in the countryside. It has closed Navacerrada, it has banned hunting, it has increased the price of light and also that of the costs of the fuels in a cold Spain and that it is also more distant from the access to the services. Of course, it has not put political solutions to the problem of depopulation, which remains without strategy and status. Therefore, what they have done has been politicizing this matter, concerned about re-editing their populist pact, with the vote also of Teruel Existe. Isn't it, Mr. Guitarte, that tomorrow you're going to vote in favour of labor reform? That's why they feed the platforms of empty Spain. But they won't be lucky; because Tezanos' polls won't be believed, will they, Mr. Fagundez? The shot's gonna come out of their ass. The Latvian Spanish know how to choose the best, and the best are the governments of the People's Party, which guarantee the provision of their quality services throughout the territory, as they have done with education and dependence, in which they are pioneers; and also because they know that they only guarantee differentiated taxation the commitment of the People's Party and sufficient funding through the autonomous funding promised by President Casado. And, yes, in 2023 he will also rule the People's Party in Aragon and Castile-La Mancha. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in the first place for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u76	Thank you, President. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you present us with a GNP like that already registered in Ecological Transition for discussion there. The truth is that it is a bit surprising that you bring such initiatives, because it is you who are in the government. This is only understood, from our point of view, from marketing and from wanting to do a bit of autobomb as well. And it is precisely this debate that coincides with one of Spain's demands for me badly called empty, right in the middle of the electoral campaign. We do not understand that the Socialist Party urges the government to carry out or promote certain initiatives when the government has already announced the Digital Spain 2025 strategy, with fifty measures grouped into ten strategic axes to drive the process of digital transformation in five years, within the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. A digital connectivity plan, a draft new general telecommunications law and a cross-border infrastructure attraction plan are being prepared. In addition, yesterday the first vice president, in an appearance in Andalusia, told us about all the goodness and all that is being done about the deployment of networks. If this is the case, I do not understand what this GNP is about. As he said yesterday in that appearance - and it was also said in another GNP in the Senate - to ensure within the universal service broadband Internet access to 100 megabytes in rural areas, and we were reminded that they already drew a public consultation in September 2021 to define the criteria of the ONLY-5G Networks program, with which 5G and 4G infrastructures will be deployed in areas with 4g coverage Insufficient; moreover, it is a program that has already been solved. On the other hand, the telecommunications law recognizes the right to universal access. It defines it and further provides that, by means of a royal decree, and taking into account social, economic and technological developments and conditions of competition on the market, the minimum set of services to be supported by the broadband Internet access service may be modified and the necessary bandwidth determined. And this is where we should work to improve accesses and collect not only a certain band, but the right band, because we talk about a hundred megas. Why not 50 or 5G? Why not other alternatives depending on the territorial, geographical, economic and social reality of the various areas where they are to be implemented? Reality, moreover, is far more clumsy than all this. As many colleagues say - and myself - that we live in rural areas, how does the arrival of 5G arise if in many villages there is not even a 4G? And, worse, in some areas you can't even talk on mobile, all because the infrastructure for the installations and the maintenance of the fiber optics do not exist for the simple reason that they were not profitable. It is true that this is intended to change with the arrival of European funds and, therefore, we understand that at best we have to do less marketing and implement more actions, because all this technology is creating a lot of expectations, especially in rural areas, and it is not going to be that it will then remain all that, in intentions. These are initiatives that have money from European funds, but we must also say that we see little implementation of these funds and, by the way, for the time being, neither citizens nor businesses are seeing it or noticing it. That is why we tell you that instead of bringing this type of GNP to fruition, because that would be the best finding that the Government is a government of word and fact and complies with the citizenry, which is ultimately going to see an improvement in its quality of life. We agree with many amendments, particularly those tabled by Tomás Guitarte. We hope that they will be accepted by the Socialist Party and, if necessary, we will vote in favour of GNP and the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u78	Thank you, Madam President. We agree with the content of this non-law proposal, how are we not going to be!, but we see some problems. The first, what better way for the PSOE to ask the Government to act; given that the PSOE is a Government, it would be good if it acted. And the second is that we think it is right to talk about widespread coverage with 5G, but we think it would be better if more peremptory needs were met in the present. Because, at least in Galicia, we are satisfied that, not only in rural areas, but in many peri-urban areas, there would simply be broadband coverage with 20 mega. This is what the Galego Nationalist Block is calling for in many initiatives, in cases of urban or peri-urban areas such as Gondomar, in Viveiro or in rural areas such as O Courel, because we are still in a situation that we believe must be dealt with urgently, and not only in relation to depopulation, but also with characteristics that seem to be usually forgotten, such as the population dispersion that characterizes our country. We are also presenting an initiative - I think it should be resolved - in relation to this criterion of free tariff and regulated tariff, which ultimately harms most of our country's councils. Because the regulated rate, which should facilitate access to the Internet, makes it expensive to the extent that it sets the highest ceiling and prevents access to the most advantageous rates offered by companies. Therefore, also take this aspect into consideration or, as has already been said, introduce these proposals into the draft general telecommunications law. The Galego Nationalist Block has done so through amendments and we hope that they will be taken into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u80	Thank you, President. The purpose of this bill is for Congress to give majority support to component 15 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan with respect to digital connectivity and 5G deployment. It also wants it to be done in coordination with the autonomous communities and local authorities. This coordination is somewhat inconsistent with the fact that the autonomous communities and local authorities have been left out of the design of the recovery plan. Some of the clearly improveable aspects of this component 15 are: one, the model of use of public resources. In Catalonia, a local network of its own and regulated prices has been chosen, but the state model is to subsidize a private network. Two, access to trunk networks at affordable prices. Many unpopulated territories are crossed by a fiber optic trunk network, even by more than one. These trunk networks can be public, state-controlled or private telecommunications companies. A very economical way and without the need to spend tens of millions of euros of public resources on new trunk networks or make new investments is to legislate so that telecommunication operators can access these trunk networks at an affordable price. When talking about an affordable price, it must be borne in mind that the number of potential customers is much lower in rural areas and the dispersion is greater compared to urban areas. Three, encourage local telecommunications operators. Another lack of this component 15 is that it is not a priority for telecommunication operators in the affected rural areas to be responsible for deploying ultra-fast broadband to their territories. If one of the objectives for ultra-fast broadband connectivity to unpopulated territories is to generate business opportunities, this measure achieves it completely. Four, encourage investment in locally owned fibre optics network. Several rural areas, faced with the inaction of private telecommunications operators, have chosen to create their own fibre optic network through joint ownership by municipalities, foundations, private proximity operators and private individuals. These initiatives have shown that they are economically viable and encourage the creation of private telecommunications operators in the territory. The 5G. In order to be able to offer telecommunications services through 5G technology, ultra-fast broadband connectivity is essential. For this reason, and in the fight against rural depopulation, action should be prioritized for 100% coverage of the broadband population, with a speed of 100 megabytes compared to 5G. We are in favour of the advancement of digital connectivity and the deployment of the 5G, they represent opportunities for the territory and especially for rural areas affected by depopulation, but we are going to abstain, as we understand that there are many aspects to improve, such as those detailed above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u82	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Depopulation is a global phenomenon that affects in a very special way certain areas of the State, especially those we consider rural. This depopulation generates and increases enormous economic inequalities between territories and favours a process of exclusion of important sections of the population by not being guaranteed access to basic services such as health, education, mobility or, as the case of the GNP that brings us here today, connectivity. Evidently, the European funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism are an opportunity to help develop effective responses to this demographic challenge. Digital rights are, for all purposes, a fundamental right which in the new global context must also be an effective right. The Government of the Generalitat has been working for a long time to guarantee this right through the development of the first digital regulatory framework in Catalonia: the Catalan Charter for Digital Rights and Responsibilities, rights that we as citizens, businesses and European institutions of the 21st century deserve to have perfectly consolidated and guaranteed. [[The Lord]] If we understand the Internet as a public good, everyone has to be able to enjoy its access on equal terms. This should be universal, equitable, affordable and with the necessary bandwidth, regardless of personal, socio-economic or geographical circumstances. While much progress has been made in recent years, there are still many territories in which universal access to technologies, information and communication cannot be consolidated, but the effectiveness of this connectivity will be consistent with its maintenance. We need to make sure that the coverage is not only deployed, but also that it is well secured, and here we ask you to be consistent and accept an amendment that we have tabled to the telecommunications bill, which is currently being processed, such as the right to a damage repair time of less than 48 hours. In short, there is great potential in rural areas to develop new value chains and connectivity in this case is essential. Let us join the essence of the Cork Declaration, which is a better life in rural areas. To achieve this is to release this potential located in the territory, to give opportunities to promote the quality of rural life, to satisfy the aspirations of young people in relation to their jobs and to facilitate generational relief through the rural environment. The corporal. Listen to me, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, because sometimes you think you have an absolute majority and you don't need to consult anything. At other times you need to bring to Congress a PNL that urges you yourselves to carry out a project. If you want this connectivity and deployment to be effective, change the verbs to deepen, facilitate, push; change them for work, deploy and support, lest when they deploy the 5G we are enjoying 8G technology; that is, they do it too late. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u83	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u84	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSOE urges the government, that is, it urges itself, with a GNP that wants to make us believe that with connectivity and 5G technology, citizens from the city will be mobilized to the people, they will telework and the problem of depopulation will end. The 2030 Agenda orders and the PSOE fulfills the dictate with hollow words: sustainable, resilient, cross-cutting objective and tractor policy. Its agenda stigmatizes the rural world, the most deprived areas. The Spanish Campo, its inhabitants, its traditions, its lifestyle and its economy agonize because they are in the vanguard of the progressive elites. [[Applauds]] Neither the PSOE nor the PP, which has been in Castile and León for thirty-five years, will solve anything, because precisely their policies are the problem. Nor will their white marks, made up of themselves, old politicians who emerge as the ghost ship of The Dutch wanderer. You also need the 5G, but to connect with the reality of all Spaniards, of that quiet, silent and faithful Spain. [[Applauds]] The autonomous system has created numerous centralisms that seek to homogenize the provinces by attacking their diversity and coping. Throughout Spain, 5,000 municipalities have lost population since 2001, 6 out of every 10 Spanish localities. Since the beginning of the century, 13 provinces have seen their population reduced: Zamora, Orense, Lugo, Palencia, León, Salamanca, Asturias, Cáceres, Ávila, Cuenca, Jaén, Soria and Teruel. Twenty years have been enough for almost 2000 villages in Castile Y León, 86 per cent, to lose population and 146 to fall more than 50 per cent. In León, my land is 9 out of 10, Spain's second in a more than remarkable decline. In the last year, 4733 neighbors, 15,300 in twenty years. The province of León is ageing and moving faster than the rest of Spain. Above all, it is due to its very low fertility, one child per average woman, much worse than the already squalid 1.3 of Spain. They dismantled mines and power plants in a hurry, with no alternatives, no future, condemning young people to exile. The problem is that no children are born. [[Applauds]] Castile and León, the largest territory in Spain and Europe, is emptied by abandonment. It's a terrible failure. They prefer to replace us with illegal immigration rather than foster birth with fiscal and social measures for families. [[Applauds]] Look, this is Castile and Lion You don't have to tell them what the red color of the map means; it's population loss. [[shows a map]] Do you honestly believe that 5G is going to change color and young people will return? I answer them: no. [[Applauds]] I know they're bored with the numbers, but they're their numbers. You and you are responsible. [[pointing left and right]] This Saturday Pedro Sánchez was in Zamora with promises two years ago, for example, the quartering of Montelarreina, which time turns into lies. [[Applauds]] It is the same scenario of a year and a half ago, in which the deputies of VOX de Castilla y León proposed measures capable of reversing the problem and demanding the elites of Brussels who redefined the extent of depopulation in Spain. Their GNP is very unambitious because they do not know how rural areas work, do not support the creation of businesses or decide to start their businesses in depopulated areas with differentiated taxation, thus creating employment, family and children. The primary sector that restores dignity to farmers, farmers and the agri-food industry is missing and they decide to make investments through this 5G to make their farms much more competitive. We must defend products whose prices are on the ground. Thirty years ago the CAP budget was 60%; today it is 33. You know why? For pure and hard ideology. [[Applauds]] It has to reach the Internet throughout Spain, but above all it has to reach the water interconnecting basins and defending farmers against the criminalization of irrigation. Part of the abandoned Spain is dry Spain. Abandon the 2030 Agenda and adopt this Agenda, the Spain Agenda, where all these proposals are collected that will very soon apply to the Junta de Castilla y León, Andalusia, Valencia and then to all of Spain With the support of an important majority of Spaniards, more than you believe, because VOX is unstoppable. [[shows a document]] Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Thank you!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u85	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Fagundez Campos, are any of the amendments tabled accepted?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u86	Yes, we are looking forward, Mr President, now we will pass them to the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u87	All right, thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the suppression of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. [[File number 162/000892]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u88	We continue with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the abolition of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. Mrs Riolobos Regadera has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. 'Sanchez ceases Garzón and abolishes the Ministry of Consumer Affairs'. This is the news that most Spaniards expect. Because we have a consumer minister who is irresponsible and incompetent, because he does not defend consumers, but creates problems, has no agenda or almost activity and has undertaken to damage the reputation of strategic sectors that are very important for job creation in our country, in Spain. I have here a list of the twenty-four sectors whose reputation has already been affected: farmers; farmers; veterinarians; entrepreneurs and self-employed; State Security Forces and Bodies; the Head of State; tourism; meat; oil; ham; sweets; telecommunications; advertising; technological sector; sugar drinks; energy drinks; sugar; game; toys; cooks; restaurants; bars; customer service and autonomous communities. There is probably no sector that has not touched the Minister of Consumer Affairs in a bad way. And why? Because this minister puts forward his communist ideology and his personal interests to those of Spanish consumers, because he applies the Cuban model of misery and ration book. It is a ministry that has very few competences, because virtually the majority have been transferred to the autonomous communities, but the Minister of Consumer Affairs is committed, obsessed, to imposing on us how we have to eat, how we have to buy and how we have to behave. The Directorate-General for Consumption, which has lasted for forty-six years with the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, now has as its ministry a budget of 65.8 million euros, which is nothing, 0.01 %, if we compare it with the total budget or the 30 billion of the Ministry of Labour or the 38 billion of the Directorate-General for Police. The powers, as I told you, are almost all transferred, it has not passed a law in the two years of its existence and is always immersed in harmful polemics that they do only harm. And do you know what the ministry is for? To place the minister, to keep Mr. Sanchez' chair and to place all the friends of the United Left of Malaga. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez is responsible for Garzón's damage to the Spanish brand. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you have a lot of arguments to vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal and that the minister should be suspended, but I will give you some more. The drop that filled the glass was the case of The Guardian. Sánchez's most harmful minister has internationally discredited the best meat in the world, which is Spanish meat, of very high nutritional value, and has put livestock farmers, veterinarians, food industry, autonomous communities and even municipalities on a war footing. It is an example that President Mañueco of Castile and León immediately came out to defend the agricultural and livestock sectors of his autonomous community. It's an example, and a round of applause for Mr. Mañueco. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, after twenty-two years of work in the field of public health and food security, having experienced the crisis of rapeseed oil and mad cows in the first person, I can say that the progress made in the quality and food security of Spanish meat is spectacular, it is leading in the world, it is Europe's envy. [[shows a photograph]] I tell you one thing: no one understands Mr Garzón's criticism of the meat sector. There is something that is unacceptable, and that is that there is a minister of the Kingdom of Spain - and this is very serious, it is a great betrayal - to a foreign country to speak ill of Spanish meat. That's a betrayal. It's very serious that I'm lying, because we all know that's not true. We have in Spain the best veterinary control services of a health nature and we know that all European regulations are being complied with. [[shows another photograph]] It is very serious - and another betrayal - that the Minister responsible for food security, that is, the Food Safety Agency, should do so. Do you know what's going on? That Mr. Sánchez didn't say or do anything. No minister in any country in the European Union would still be in the government after having made these three betrayals. We came from something very serious, which is a campaign that starred the same minister speaking of 'Less flesh, more life', and then dared to say that she was criticized because men believed that it affected her masculinity. What a fool! Sánchez said: chopping to the point, unbeatable. And nothing else, he stood still, he didn't do anything else. When the CPI, the shopping basket and the light rise are unstoppable and there are many people and families who cannot reach the end of the month because they have lost purchasing power, the Minister of Consumer Affairs betrays the oil, ham and cheese sector, because he wants to put a red label on the French NutriScore label. And it also attacks the exquisite creative sector of candy manufacturers. Do you know that the ColaCao, which is a product that along with milk we have been consuming seventy-five years a lot of generations of Spaniards, and that has allowed us to improve in size and size, will be affected by this regulation? [[Rumors]] When inflation comes out, when we have energy poverty and queues of hunger, the Minister of Consumer Affairs lowers the value of cooking by taking out a cooking recipe by copying Stalin. He has ridiculed in a remarkable way - and has made the ridicule - with the toy strike. And it has been crushing the tourism sector, the advertising and gambling sector with total cynicism. Look at you, now the government is going to spend 3 million euros on promoting the state's game - that is, among the 18 to 25 year olds. When all the scientific societies are asking for the fight against obesity, Mr Garzón does what he does is to keep the VAT on masks. We Spanish citizens do not want to be told what we have to do. What we want is what President Casado is asking, which is that Minister Garzón be stopped and that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs be abolished, because with a general direction we put in place the electric social bonus, we create the AESAN, the fractional payment of parking lots and many things that have benefited consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, many consumers, farmers, farmers, veterinarians and entrepreneurs in the sector who have been harmed by Mr Garzón are waiting for their vote, because Mr Garzón's trophies must be stopped. Good afternoon and thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u90	Thank you, Your Honor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendment, I have the floor, by the VOX Group, Mr Chamorro Delmo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to debate in this plenary a non-legislative proposal on the abolition of Minister Garzón's Ministry of Consumer Affairs. To this end, it is proposed to amend the relevant royal decrees in relation to the ministerial organizational structure that underpins this Government. The VOX Parliamentary Group does not want to reduce this initiative to a ministry and we have proposed an amendment for a drastic reduction of the mastodontic structure of ministries, so that almost half of them are eliminated and thus set an example of reducing public spending and efficiency. [[Applauds]] In particular, we demanded the elimination of three of the four vice-presidencies and ten of the twenty-two ministries so that the new structure of the Government would move from twenty-three people to thirteen, with the president at its head. The oversized structure of the Government accounts for a minimum cost of almost EUR 16 million per year only in high-ranking salaries. We want Spain to stop having the government with more ministries in the European Union. However, despite considering this initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group to be insufficient, it should be noted that this proposal focuses on the Ministry of Consumer Affairs in the context of the entrepreneurial statements of Minister Garzón attacking livestock, the meat sector and the quality of our exports. He is a minister who has previously attacked various economic sectors - such as the toy industry, the candy industry and the tourism sector - or who pushes the Nutri Score label against our Mediterranean diet. Garzón's latest statements are a real attack by the Government of Spain on an agri-food sector that is very important to Spain's national interest. As I said in the Permanent Chamber, there is no justification for these statements by Garzón, even though the consensus media have tried to whiten them. What a Spanish minister can never do is make absolutely false statements abroad, saying that our meat is of poor quality and that an industry in Spain is dedicated to contaminating soil and water and then exporting meat from abused animals; declarations made in addition to a British newspaper financed by the powerful global animalist industry. [[applause]] This government not only has an oversized structure with absurd ministries, such as the one that governs the totalitarian communist Garzón, which pays all Spaniards in the midst of a brutal crisis and which should, of course, be suppressed, but every time they make statements of this kind they show that they are working against the interests of the Spanish people and our productive system. [[Applauds]] This Government executes foreign dictates alien to our interests, whether they be global social engineering agendas for the benefit of anti-national economic elites, or the interests of that communist-led international communism that infects the entire Iberian sphere. Elites and neocommunism reach out in forums such as Davos or in that globalist agenda, the 2030 Agenda, which wants to end meat consumption and which absurdly criminalizes farmers and livestock farmers, saying that they are the cause of climate change and pollution; an agenda that has been signed by consensus all the parties of this Congress, all but VOX. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Your consensus is depopulation, ruin, corruption, demographic winter, lack of profitability and closure of farms; as we are seeing in Castile and León, where the agrarian weight is ten times above the national average. Livestock and farmers are no longer able to cope with your constraints and production costs. They're mobilizing all over Spain. The pressure we put them to is untenable, as happened yesterday in Lorca. Our solidarity with the national agricultural sector and our constant thanks for feeding the Spaniards! [[Applauds]] It is necessary for the Spaniards to be aware that these herrings against livestock, agriculture, our gastronomy or against our productive system are false.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u92	Your Honor, you must finish, please. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u93	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. Our desire to regain our sovereignty is unforgivable. In VOX we will not allow you to do with our agri-food sector what you did with the industry in the 1980s and 1990s. [[Applauds]] In VOX we have it clear. In the face of anti-national consensus...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u94	Your Honor, your time is up. Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u95	... Our only agenda is Spain. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Thank you!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u96	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. I take it that the arguments I used last November during the debate on Section 31 of the Budget Act for the Ministry of Consumer Affairs have been reproduced. Consequently, to support this non-law proposal which calls for the abolition of this unnecessary body, created solely on the basis of the particular interests of the communist social coalition in order to distribute power quotas. Also, Mr Garzón, beneficiary of this portfolio, is dedicated to manifesting - even in foreign media - harmful opinions for important economic and productive sectors of Spain, trampling administrative powers that are alien to him and to undermining the highest institutions of a State that in this year 2022 has placed under its management 39% more public funds than last year. Ladies and gentlemen, no Spanish is free from the irresponsibility of a loquacious minister on social networks, but who is muted by inflation, disagrees with the measures to stop the escalation of the shopping basket and participates, together with the rest of the government, in the nonsense of the electric bill that the PSOE-Unidas coalition We can commit to work on their agreement prior to the investiture and that is impoverishing society. Finally, the hygienic abolition of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which should be accompanied by a substantial reduction in the number of seats in the blue bank, should be the first step towards the rationalization of the gigantic and costly macro-structure of the Pedro Sánchez Government. There is no similar country in the European Union to Spain with such a ministerial deployment of posts and loads. After the equator of the XIV Legislature, nothing justifies its maintenance; hence it is necessary to apply a significant pruning in the number of ministries, beginning with the useless and harmful cases that occupy us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u99	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There was no reason to create a ministry like Consumer, which manages less money than a pedanía: 66 million euros. There was only one reason, which was not in Spain's interest, but in Sánchez's interest: to give a place to someone who had sold a game for a seat. That was Mr. Garzón. And what has Mr. Garzón devoted himself to in these two years? Two things. One, to give the note and, two, to screw up. That is the assessment we can make of a completely incompetent minister as Mr Garzón is. It is clear that there can be no more time in the Government for someone who has dedicated himself to kicking one of the key sectors for this country, such as the livestock sector. Shame on you, Mr Garzón, with everything that the livestock sector and agriculture have suffered during these two years of pandemic! It goes abroad and with the money of all the Spaniards, instead of defending one of our star products in a fundamental market for us, as is the British market, goes and despises it. Do you imagine that, instead of working in the Spanish Government, Mr. Garzón was a commercial company of a private company and was around the world scorning the main product of that company? Where would Mr. Garzón be? Well, it would be on the street, which is actually where it should be, because there is no other place that corresponds to someone who tramples one of the fundamental products for the economy of this country. [[applause]] And Mr. Sánchez is dedicated to the posture with Mr. Garzón, to eating a little cut and saying that he does not share the statements. But if Mr Garzón is a minister of Spain it is because Mr Sánchez does not cease him. Therefore, the person responsible for Mr Garzón's statements is not Mr Garzón, he is Mr Sánchez. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u100	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this non-law proposal and the arguments we are hearing really serve us to live an example of what is a practice of manipulation and lying. They ask to abolish the Ministry of Consumer Affairs because they say that since its creation it has been involved in harmful and scandalous polemics. Well, I did an exercise in memory going to the hemeroteca to contrast your arguments and what I found is that it was you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, who in all cases mounted the manipulative scandal. It was you who created the scandal. They have tried by all means to boycott and promote noise, rather than a calm and in-depth debate on the consumption habits and production systems of these consumer goods. Why do they want to prevent us from having a necessary debate on diets and their sustainability? Why do they want to prevent an in-depth debate on the food production system, which is ruining most farms and livestock? Yes, that's the system they're defending, the one that's ruining farms and livestock, regardless of the number of livestock heads or the number of hectares being cultivated. I will tell you why they are trying to prevent this debate: because they are trying to maintain the current situation. They try to maintain an agricultural and livestock system that is benefiting a minority that is speculating in every order. In Euskal Herria Bildu we are very clear that the model of agriculture and livestock that must be defended is one that allows livestock, livestock and farmers to live well, while producing healthy food. That's why we're going to reject your non-law proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u102	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to extend much; I could have intervened from the seat. The People's Parliamentary Group presents us with a non-legislative proposal for the abolition of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. This is a case of physical phenomena. I don't know how to define it. It would be something like this to happen here, but to have consequences there. I mean, we discussed this here, but the looks are on and the actions are designed to have an impact on Castile and León's election date. This is another election act of the People's Party, which has caught cacho - as is said chastisely - with this theme and wood the monkey until he speaks English. Lend to President Sánchez, to his partners, to those who believe they are his partners, and to anyone who doesn't think like you. I'm warning you: don't put us in this barrier. It's your problem. You want it to be everyone's, but it's a subject of yours, for your unique and exclusive benefit. Having said that, it is not my group that abandons the defence and cause of Mr Garzón, his ministry or any other minister or minister. That's not what we're here for, and we're not here to rid those little battles. We have much more important tasks than walking into the game of the chair, from taking you away to put me; because this whole story in the background is about that. So, we're not going into this game. Do we disagree with Minister Garzón? In so many things, as with other ministers - and with some, so much more - but this is not the issue. You bring here a non-law proposal that mixes ministry and person as they please and, in the end, in this deliberate confusion, we do not know if what is left is the ministry or what is left is the minister; if you would not care that Garzon was in another ministry, because what concerns you is that there is that ministry, or if what matters to you is that the minister is fulminated, regardless of where he is'ministering'. If we had the power to set up ministries and organize the government, would we have had a single Minister of Consumer Affairs? No, no, They are right when they ensure that consumer skills are in the autonomous communities. We know that. Well, we know that too! But it seems that you only know when it's good for you to fish, because other times you don't have any packaging to defend and propose centralized issues that are purely autonomous. We also thought the agency was better off where it was. No problem. Now, said this - and I come back to the beginning - this is not the core. This is the shell that justifies your request, which is another. They mix agriculture and livestock issues with electoral political interests. Political interests we all have, and they are legitimate - for that we are, to defend political interests - but it is not the same as having punctual, momentary electoral interests, when everything goes well and, therefore, we give to the on in the fan and see if we are entangled in fishing something. My group is very clear what model of agriculture it defends - moreover, it does so where it governs - what model of livestock we want, what type of consumption and what food society we want - that we exercise where we are ruling - and why we bet. We don't need to create fictional tales in this rostrum. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, do not count on us to follow this game. They're their interests, they're their priorities, and we're not going to get into it. Others in command have joined. There they are and their interests. You defended in this rostrum, when you had absolute majority and ruled, that it is the responsibility of the President of the Government to appoint his ministries and ministers and that no one else can enter into it. I guess it'll still be the same now, too. It will therefore be up to Mr Sánchez to decide whether or not the minister is going on or whether the ministry is going to be or not. If you want to talk about consumption, livestock, the bill of light or meat, we do it elsewhere, with another rigor and with another seriousness, and not through a non-law proposal that only serves what it serves. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u104	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u105	Thank you, President. We are going to vote in favour of abolishing the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, but for reasons very different from those presented by the People's Parliamentary Group here today. Our motives are endogenous to the ministry itself. It should never have existed. They hypertrophyed a general direction and turned it into a ministry because the 'insomnia pact' contained the creation of sufficient ministries so that the people of Podemos could place all who aspired to be ministers. If it were for ministerial action, there are objectively far worse ministers than Mr Garzón. Without going any further, Mr. Grande-Marlaska would have to be stopped long before Mr. Garzón: he has fabricated evidence against my political group after the Pride, he has stopped public servants for partisan issues, he has carried out a prison policy of absolutely embarrassing discharges... Marlaska has much more reason to be stopped than Garzón, but Mr Garzón has committed a serious clumsy talk about the Spanish meat industry, although not in the terms that the People's Party says, but with the aggravating effect of doing so in an important foreign reference medium. It is true that here hypocrisy has been involved in the electoral campaign of Castile and León. The PP and the PSOE have been pretty miserable about this, and I'm going to prove it to you. Look, the People's Party was tweeting against the microgranjas a little while ago. [[Shows a document in which you can see several tweets]] Here I have the tweets announcing the Stop Microgranjas Platform or saying that a medical report warns of the health consequences of the microgranjas. So, be clear. [[Applauds]] This was before he would be willing to talk to every sheep of Castile and Lion. But the Socialist Party has also been quite miserable and in its day called for the removal of micro-farms in the European Union, although today they are also built into the adalids of these models. [[shows a document in which you can see several tweets]] I mean, you've done with this what you do with everything - you and you - which is lying. [[pointing to the seats of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and Socialist, respectively]] Where they said one thing they said the other and, as there are elections, they have seen here a row. What message do you send to whoever is in favor of the micro-mills? And who's against it? What message do you send who's against it? Have you or have you brought new data to this sudden change of position? [[pointing to the seats of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and Socialist, respectively]] The truth is that we do not understand very well what has happened, except for the statements of Minister Garzón. What message does the political class constantly send, when there has been a change of opinion from night to morning for the unfortunate statements of a minister? What respect do you show for movements that are legitimately against micro-farms? [[The lady]] But what respect do you show to those who are legitimately in favour of micro-farms? Both have been documented, and both argue their positions in a deep debate that has been held for many years. You, PP and PSOE, are able to change positions for a net electoral reason. They don't respect anyone. By the way, they're getting out of hand. Yesterday they promoted the assault on a city hall. Are you going to promote people coming here to storm the Congress of Deputies disguised as sheep merina? You don't care about micro-ranges or emptied Spain; you don't care about everything. What matters to you is to revalidate the position. You don't mind people leaving your people while the mayor is from your party, because that's how you keep the parliament. Everything is a lie and, if tomorrow is necessary, you will again be against the micro-mills, because you already know that everything is worth it. The moment comes when this relativism will pass you invoice, when the total absence of principles will be paid. People are sick of lies. We know that Sanchez has no word or principle, but, gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you will not throw Sanchez out of Sanchito. Even Aznar warns you. However, their opportunism and their lack of respect for those working in the meat sector do not prevent us from considering, for reasons of origin, that this ministry should be abolished. It can be saved by the Spaniards. Nor is it a ministry that has shown a lot of credit when the energy bill is absolutely triggered. On the other hand, there is the very discredit to which the President of the Government submits to Minister Garzón when he answers, with jokes: I, the chop, little done. By the way, how many times are they going to resort to 'personal speaking'? Because we see that with the crisis in Ukraine the people of Podemos also speak on a personal level. Hey, you meet these gentlemen in the Moncloa, not in a barbershop. Gentlemen of the PSOE, you have a problem, and it is that you have to assume the price of incorporating populism into the government. It's his sarna with pleasure, it's his toll on power. The government is undivided and populism does what it knows. The best way for someone to speak on a personal level is for them to speak from their home. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u107	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Guillermo Díaz, with all affection, I love it when you say certain things about what happened yesterday in Lorca. It's a danger, it's a danger. Either we wake everyone up and put on a rope or this danger will go on. Winds have been sown and storms began to pick up yesterday. Gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group and gentlemen of VOX, you are torn by an artificial controversy that you continue to feed by statements from a minister to a foreign newspaper. You use these statements as an electoral weapon in an absolutely immoral way; you call them antipatriotic and tear your clothes. On the other hand, Mr Casado is going to Europe so that the funds do not arrive here, creating doubts about how these funds are being distributed despite the fact that the European Commissioner for the People's Party tells them that they are being distributed well and that there is transparency, and the People's Party and VOX are silent. That's patriotic. That's Spanish. They don't say anything there. Anyway... The livestock sector and the agriculture sector are left with demagogues and they lack that once and for all we regulate the position of absolute domination that the distribution has. Until that is done, farmers and farmers will continue to suffer. This is to be abolished, to be abolished by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. I am not going to be the one to defend Minister Garzón; I believe that United We can already do it and probably better than me. I just want to point out the contradictions, the traps and the hypocrisy that distils this proposal. They say that in the current context it seems superfluous to them and that it does not seem relevant to their existence. Is there any organism more superfluous and more useless - because it has no activity - than the Spanish Office? It's kept by PP and VOX. Start with the things you can do, small things, things that are useless, superfluous. You also say that most of the powers are transferred to the Autonomous Communities. I welcome the fact that in this case most of them are transferred to the Autonomous Communities, but you only ask that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs be abolished. In health, education or culture, most skills are transferred to the Autonomous Communities. Does it make any sense that there are such ministries? On the other hand, you are sure that you never intend to suppress those ministries. Then you talk about several things, first, about sugar campaigns, and second, that the minister said less meat. The Spanish Society of Community Nutrition says in a scientific publication that sugar is a superfluous food, that its consumption is not necessary and its intake can produce overweight and caries, and also recommends occasional consumption. Finally, they have referred to Stalin and Cuba. I don't want to imagine a world or a Congress dominated by the alliance of PP and VOX, I can't imagine. They'd want us to be in Indian line and with the card in our mouths. I don't even want to imagine. That there are reactionary elements in the Armed Forces? Of course, in the Armed Forces, in the Police and in this Congress; this Congress is full of reactionaries and if not, I refer myself to the evidence. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u108	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u109	Thank you so much for the love shows. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u110	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Rumors.-Mrs.Angolo Romero utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Angulo, silence, please. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u111	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. 'Things veredes, Don Sancho'. The whole bench of We Can applaud Citizens! I see that variable geometry is changing and that's a little scary. But the truth is, he's told it well. We all know, the subject of livestock was a fake news. 'didn't say that', 'have used it'..., is the usual system - put it in your head - of how the right and the right function. Actually, if we talk about this non-law proposition, I think it's easy to understand that to me, the issue of whether this ministry we put it, take it out or leave it, or whether there are 22 or 53 gives me the same thing. My project is a state of its own and, therefore, as if they want to have 210, if we can leave. But what is true is that, put to ask that a ministry be abolished, we must do so for reasons other than ad hominem, as has been done so far. It is, therefore, more a request to the minister for reprobation than an approach of a governmental structure. I take this opportunity to say that, if you want, we can talk in this Congress of government restructuring. The proposal goes by suppressing Education, Culture and Sports, Consumption, Health, Defense and already put, let us not forget, the House of the King. If you agree, we'll talk about it any day and get to it. What's interesting about this? The previous speaker commented: it will end as in Lorca. That your lies are going to end that supposed take of people, your right by the hand, and that's extremely dangerous. [[Rumors]] No one is listening to me right now, but I know that in two years' time they will be regretting this kind of policy they have done. They said they only needed to be dressed in sheep merina, yes, and barbecue. Because they are all in this kind of working against each other without being able to discuss anything. I know it's wrong to say it because it's not my party, but it's true that some of Minister Garzón's interventions were simply true, and for a minister who's telling the truth, it would be good if it continued for a while. What did he say? For example, the minister said: 'There may be reactionary elements within the State Security Forces and Bodies'. The only thing I have to say in this case is that it was disappointingly prudent, because it is proven to be plagued with energetics and reactionary people. I'll give you an example. Without going any further, last week, in Barcelona, a national police officer assaulted photojournalist Jordi Borràs. Then, he admitted to court that it was for ideological reasons, to the cry of the living Franco! and live Spain! He was sentenced to one year in prison, to compensation of 7,000 euros and to pay the costs. Do you know he hasn't been stopped? And then they come to say that the minister is not right! What it was is overly prudent, I say it again. Yes, sir. You have the State Security Forces and Forces and the Army plagued with reactionary elements. Let them know, no matter how much they deny it, that's true. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u112	Excuse me, Mrs. Vallugera. I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u113	Yeah, I can't hear myself.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u115	I'm on it. They are annoyed by the criticisms linked to the tourism sector. He says that it is of low added value and that the salaries paid and the jobs created in many cases - not always - are precarious and compromises the ecological viability of many of the costs. I'm sorry, that's true. Therefore, what you ask us is that we suppress a ministry to reproach the minister. They make it complicated, I tell you. We're not gonna profile ourselves, though we'd say it's not our war either. So, let's vote no. But, however, as some have realized that there are transferred powers and the others have realized that it is the number one enemy, please, to whom we are voting today that no, and now belong to certain autonomous communities and protostates in the future, do not attack our own powers. We have already had to vote against the transposition of the directives on consumption and we will do so again whenever necessary. He has us on his side as to what he proposes ideologically, but he respects the competence of each of the administrative levels. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u117	President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party and VOX call for the abolition of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs by using a bubble launched against Minister Alberto Garzón, a bubble that has been dismantled, no matter how much they insist on repeating the lie. You are left with the ministry and, above all, with the measures to protect consumers. In the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, which assumes the power of consumption in the second Rajoy Government, the protection of 40 million consumers was relegated to a modest general direction. That is why Spain is one of the most backward countries in Europe in consumer protection and why this government has had to order consumer relations in a globalised society. The Game Act, passed in 2011, had allowed juvies of apprehensive people to make the drama of ludopathy their business. Until three months ago, the publicity harassment of gambling houses against our families was unacceptable. In their GNP they ask to reduce the powers in game management a It is a matter of finance and tax collection, but know that this government has decided that game management obliges the protection of people as consumers. They are concerned that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs has restricted the advertising of gambling houses, or that the advertising of food intended for children will be regulated. It bothers them that Minister Garzón is fighting to protect our neighborhoods and our young people, or that the actions of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs make sterile the well-paid hirings as lobbyists of their former ministers or former deputies for gambling companies. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, tell us: has this PNL written it by any lobbyist or have you done it alone? If lobbyists can no longer influence the government's action, are they worried that the companies that pay them so well will throw them on the street? Minister Garzón speaks truths with technical and scientific rigour and without fear of lobbies, and he does so with scrupulous respect for European consensus in this area, with full support in the recommendations of the United Nations agencies and in the Sustainable Development Strategy of Spain. But the People's Party does not care at all about protecting consumers and that is why Spain has not so far had a law that says that customer care is a right, that companies can't tide us over by telephone. Now, for example, lines 902 are free and companies cannot charge for everything, and massive abuse and fraud in consumption can be effectively pursued. Thanks to two years of work by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, fraud and fraud will not be profitable again, and I would like to thank Minister Garzón and President Pedro Sánchez, because they have placed consumer policy at the forefront of government action. [[Applauds]] For these reasons, consumer policy differs from social or health policy, it is a ministry with a special voice in the Council of Ministers and in the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs, and so the defence of consumers also guides our economic activity. But you choose to maintain inequality in business-to-consumer relations. It is legitimate, it is the class struggle and its wallets always above the people. They are annoyed by the modest spending on consumer protection policies, but they are dedicated to giving money from all Spaniards to their friendly entrepreneurs, dreaming of revolving doors. [[applause]] The bank rescue of De Guindos has cost us 66 billion euros, which was not going to cost a euro; up to 3,500 million the rescue of the toll freeways in the pockets of OHL, Azvi or Sacyr, all in the papers of Bárcenas; or 1350 million the closing of the warehouse of the Castor, dearest that stage. In their crazy career for behaving like VOX, they hang lies against the Ministry of Consumer Affairs with any excuse. Farmers and farmers, never forget that VOX and the People's Party were the only ones who voted against the law prohibiting the sale at the expense of agricultural products. His cheating lies cause violent extremists to assault democratic institutions, as happened yesterday in Lorca, with the justification of the presidents of the People's Party and VOX in that city. [[Applauds]] They want to end democracy. To desist from continuing to sabotage our work to expand consumer rights. We're going to vote against them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u118	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u119	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not going to go into the VOX amendment, which has got them soft, because they just wanted to abolish twelve ministries, right? We all know that that's why they really took away the entire government and put one in charge as God commands.But, well, the Democrats know that much more expensive than democracy is the dictatorship that some still yearn for. [[Applauds]] We will enter the proposal made by the PP and explain the reasons why they bring it. They do not bring it because they care about the image of Spain, as has already been said, because if they care about the image of Spain they would not go to the ground in Europe to prevent the arrival of European funds; it is not because of a savings to the public coffers, because then they would not have chiringuitos like that of Toni Cantó or like that which Mr Abascal had in the days of Esperanza Aguirre; it is not because of supporting the farmers - it has just been said - nor the farmers, because they have voted against the Food Chain Law and against the prohibition of sale at loss; the reasons are others. The spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group in a recent article said that there was a Rajoy minister who was doing the work of four communist ministers. And, of course, I was led by Mrs Ana Mato, who was the prime minister of the sector in the Marian governments. This lady, who wasn't able to see a Jaguar in her garage, was hardly going to see the problems of consumers and users, was she? That's right, the travel agencies I think they never had to make a claim because their trips seemed to be quite classy. But, well, let's comment on what the PP has done since Mrs. Mato's time. The first thing was to try to threaten consumer associations, such as Facua, because she did not like the criticisms she was making and the association had to be gagged. That affection for Facua was manifested when they arrived at the Junta de Andalucia, in my city, in Cadiz, where the first thing they did was to close the provincial headquarters in Facua Cadiz, where they had been for more than thirty years. It is a fixation with all consumer associations, in this case against Fafua. In addition, they abolished the National Consumer Institute, the General Directorate of Consumer Affairs and put the sanitary co-ops in place. They have moved their concern here about the VAT of masks, which have a regulated price, and millions have been distributed free of charge, but the copayos did not matter, the copayos were magnificently. There people didn't have to choose between paying for the drink or eating, did they? Nor did they worry about buying the Sovaldi, which they said was very expensive. And, of course, do you imagine that, just as you left hepatitis C patients, we would have taken a year to buy COVID vaccines since they could be bought? You would have told us barbarities, and rightly so, but those things we don't do, you do them in that protection you say about consumers. You legislate so that the banks that forced their customers to claim the ground clause would be forgiven for their costs. You have mentioned Nutricure as a betrayal of the Spanish agri-food industry. You, who took him to the Senate in May 2020, demanding the government to implement the system in three months. If you're making a fool of yourself in order to attack the government. You yourselves call yourselves traitors to Spain. [[Applauds]] The reason you want to remove the ministry is because it remains in evidence. They have talked about electricity, because in this sector this government has removed the sun tax that you invented; this government encourages the renewables that you paralyzed; this government, when the energy crisis has reached across Europe, has suspended the tax on the value of electricity production that Rajoy designed; it has reduced the VAT that you raised; it has cut the benefit of the electricity to which the PP left the electricity price, when it decided that it was no longer the government that was going to put the price. It has also created the minimum vital supply, improved the social bonus and is being legislated against the so-called fallen benefits of heaven. All these proposals that this government has carried out to help people - you who care about people - have voted against, that's what people care about you. [[Applauds]] As this government increases the time limits for product guarantees, you do not reject in Europe the scam of planned obsolescence; while this government puts resources in the fight against ludopathy, you where they govern lower taxes on bingo, casinos and slots. This government improved the Leases Act, which you worsened to the detriment of the tenants and fosters the public park of housing that you sold to the vulture funds. It's just that we're night and day, night and day. [[Applauds]] Because, while for us Article 51 of the Constitution is of vital importance in the defence of consumers and users, for you these rights are a further obstacle to eliminating in that crazy idea of the free market that you like so much. As Mr Casado said, trade union, labour and tax barriers must be removed because they bother businesses and you too believe that consumer rights are annoying. Well, we're not going to follow your line, ours is totally different. What needs to be suppressed is not the government's policy of consumption, but the disloyalty and the bulwark of an absolutely destructive opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Riolobos asked whether your group accepts the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u121	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u122	All right. In that case, it shall be voted on in its terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u123	We then discuss the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 30/2021 of 23 December, which provides for urgent preventive and containment measures to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Health has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to request the support of this House for Royal Decree-Law 30/2021 of 23 December, which takes urgent preventive and containment measures to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19. It is a question, ladies and gentlemen, of submitting to this House the said royal decree-law, which enabled the adoption of very necessary measures which today, in accordance with the constitutional provision, require the validation of this House. Before addressing the content of this rule, I would like to share with Parliament that since the detection of the omicron variant there has been a great many actions carried out both in the bodies of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System and through the Conference of Presidents and Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, co-governance remains the key in the fight against this pandemic. I know that the majority of this House shares this statement, this reality, but, therefore, once again, the President of the Government of Spain convened on 22 December the XXVth Conference of Presidents, in order to analyse the epidemiological situation, will recall, in view of the increase in cases throughout Europe, also our country, as a result of the Omicron variant and adopt, in a consensual and coordinated manner, the measures that were implemented the following day in an extraordinary Council of Ministers in order to put them into effect quickly. As you know, the meeting of that Council of Ministers on 23 December approved the Royal Decree-Law which brings me here today and which amends, ladies and gentlemen, Law 2/2021 of 29 March on urgent measures, also, of prevention, containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis by COVID. In this royal decree, ladies and gentlemen, together with the adoption of important measures, of great importance, the restoration of the compulsory use of masks in any open-air, public-use or open to the public, except for the practice of sport or in natural spaces, ladies and gentlemen, you will recall, in view of the very high circulation of the COVID virus, that it was advisable to establish measures that would act as a barrier, since, as pointed out by the Ponencia de Alertas in its position regarding the use of masks, this is one of the measures that has had the greatest impact on the control of transmission, especially if it is done in combination, also, with other non-pharmacological measures, since it reduces a risk in the transmission of diseases, in this case, by drops and aerosols. I share with this House that at that time we were in a cumulative incidence of fourteen days of 784 per 100,000 inhabitants, a incidence that was high, will remember your honors, until 3414, the highest figure known so far, which was reached on January 21st, and until 2694 today. One measure, ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that, following the adoption by our country, it was followed by other countries such as Portugal, France or Italy and that it has also been endorsed by the World Health Organization in the words of its director for Europe, Dr. Kluge, by stating that confinements would not have been necessary if 95% of the people wore masks, when they were not currently 60, and referred to the whole of Europe. It is also, ladies and gentlemen, reiterated the CCAES reports in which it is evident, given the exponential increase in cases we have experienced in this sixth wave, the importance of the use of masks - I repeat - because of their barrier effect and their collaboration, therefore, in the reduction of transmission. Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of the mask has been one of the most important preventive measures, which has made it possible to protect citizens, which has made social interaction possible. This has been more necessary than ever in this sixth wave, when we have had accumulated incidences so far never seen throughout Europe or our country. Another important element of the fight against the virus - which will also allow me to comment - along with prevention, is vaccination. The vaccination strategy that we have followed in our country, carried out by the Government of Spain, through the Ministry of Health, together with the Autonomous Communities and the Autonomous Cities, is fundamental. Today, we have 90.8% of the population over twelve years of age with a complete pattern. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to this very high percentage of vaccination, together with booster doses, it has allowed us to deal differently with this sixth wave. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we have always been taking measures according to the epidemiological situation at every moment. For what? For nothing more and nothing less, than to help ensure the protection of health with the establishment of caution and protection that strengthens preventive behaviors, in short, ladies and gentlemen, the culture of care. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, along with this measure that I have just commented on, the Royal Decree-Law also established the power of the Government to amend, by royal decree, and on the proposal of the person holding the Ministry of Health, hearing the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, the mandatory use of the mask - I quote literally - when the appropriate sanitary circumstances so advise. The reason, ladies and gentlemen, is that the legal reserve does not give the necessary flexibility and adaptation that the effective fight against the pandemic requires at every moment when the epidemiological situation has been encountered and can be presented to us, as we have seen over these two years. In this sense, it is also necessary to share in this Chamber that this has been the position of the Alert Office of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, considering that the use of the mask is regulated by a flexible rule, which allows for rapid changes, and in this case, the amendment of article 6 of Law 2/2021, which amends this royal decree-law. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, and consequently, the amendment made by this royal decree-law regulates the essential conditions under which the regulatory rule will decide on the compulsory use of the mask, as well as its exceptions, always in function of the epidemiological evolution and with the necessary and indispensable participation-as it cannot otherwise be - of the body par excellence in co-governance, which is our Interterritorial Council, because we have always, together, been making further progress. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Together with these measures, this Royal Decree-Law, and to alleviate the burden in the National Health System, has incorporated the possibility of hiring retired health personnel, as had already been done earlier in the pandemic, while maintaining the compatibility of their benefits with those of retirement. Thus, Article 2 of this Royal Decree-Law amends, in turn, the Royal Decree-Law 8/2021 to maintain in this case, ladies, until 31 December this year 2022 the possibility of hiring professionals, both medical and nursing, already retired. Article 3 of the Royal Decree-Law also provides for the recruitment by the autonomous communities, by INGESA and also by the Ministry of Defence of professionals with the title of specialist obtained in States not members of the European Union. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, the rule states that they must have a proposed report, subject to the assessment committee, as regulated in Royal Decree-Law 459/2010, for the recognition of the conditions of foreign degree professionals of specialists in health sciences, in this case obtained, as I have said, in States not members of the European Union. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a measure which had also been proposed earlier and which had also been highly demanded. On the other hand, finally, this royal decree-law, which I submit for the consideration of its lords for validation, establishes in its first final provision the amendment of the forty-sixth additional provision of Law 11/2020 of 30 December, approving the General Budgets of the State for the year 2021, which laid down appropriate measures to ensure the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions and other public benefits, with a view to this an increase. It should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that it was clear from the wording of the law that there was a willingness to benefit in the above-mentioned increases to those pensions and benefits of lower amounts, such as non-contributory ones, as has traditionally been done. However, given that this desire for differential treatment was clear, the provision did not make any distinction in the formula applied, so that non-contributory pensions lost part of the increase provided for in article 44 of the Act, since they were less affected than the other pensions by the deviation from the CPI. Hence the importance of including it in this royal decree-law so that such a thing would not happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. Everything so far set out in this rostrum is the basis for the request for validation that he requested from this rule. In addition to the reasons given for the health measures, I would like to share with this House that have been requested mostly by all the different territories. The presidents of every political sign - of every political sign - have been sued, not only through their advisers or advisers in the inter-territorial council, Wednesday after Wednesday, but also in the Conference of Presidents and Presidents. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state in this House what I said about this when he appeared at a press conference after the extraordinary Council of Ministers where we adopted this royal decree-law, because I believe it is relevant. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a strictly temporary measure, for as long as it takes until the pandemic risk indicators reach the right levels, as our own interterritorial council establishes, on which we are all represented. And I must announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are on the right track. Day by day we continue to lower the accumulated incidence, and this means that we are getting closer and closer. Because with all the prudence, ladies and gentlemen, we have doubled the curve of this sixth wave and are in the process of descending. Therefore, this measure demanded by virtually all the presidents is closer to being remodulated. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. We are aware of the time since the pandemic was declared, the impact on our lives, the tiredness - why not say it - of citizenship and the impact that the virus has had on our lives during this time. We are also very aware of the efforts of our healthcare professionals, the importance of having a strong, resilient National Health System that places us in the international benchmark, and the collective performance of an entire country in the vaccination strategy, because among all of us, ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to vaccinate an entire country. We've all been able to do it. Our knowledge of the virus has been advancing with the help of science, expert people, and along with the very high vaccination coverage, exemplary behavior of our citizenship and epidemiological evolution, which is beginning to present more and more endemic characteristics, makes us ask ourselves new scenarios to move from an emergency surveillance to an objective surveillance of higher quality. And in that, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to make progress in the strategic responses that are needed at every moment. That is why he has requested before this House the validation of this royal decree-law, with the desire of all, of the whole country and of this government, to continue to make progress in taking care of the health of our population. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u127	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mrs. Pastor Julián.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my most sincere memory to the victims of COVID and their families, as well as to thank all the health professionals in my country for their commitment, their generosity and professionalism, and all the public servants. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank all the researchers and professionals who, with their efforts and knowledge, have contributed together with the admirable Spanish society, without any doubt, to the success of vaccination in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third decree that you bring to this House to regulate the use of masks - 21/2020, 13/2021 and now 30/2021. For the Government, this has been the only matter to be dealt with, along with the meter and a half, to combat the pandemic in this House in two years, and they have left the autonomous communities, which have had to legislate us to seventeen models of pandemic management before a virus that does not understand borders and fewer autonomous communities. You, looking elsewhere, without legislating the substantive issues - as other countries like Germany have done - and having to intervene even the higher courts of justice. In fact, no one understands that you talk to us about masks on the outside and don't worry about the lights. How is it possible that two years later Spain does not have a standard to deal with a pandemic? Why do they refuse to create a public health agency and quality of care? And the rest of the proposals from the Reconstruction Committee, where are they? Minister, contempt is not just for this House, contempt is for the citizens. Minister, we're still in the pandemic. Yesterday, the latest data reported by the ministry point to 259 people who died as a result of COVID, 3820 people who died only in the last month, an absolutely inconsumable figure. As unabsorbed is the total number of deaths since the beginning of the pandemic. The Ministry of Health only accounts for 89,405, but the excess mortality - according to INE - exceeds 122,000 deaths. Madam Minister, your Government's real legislative record is regrettable. I can also point out to you that you are introducing into this royal decree-law matters of particular relevance - whether you have had time until 23 December to bring them to this House - for a single purpose: to force parliamentary groups to support you. Who has seen them and who sees them, lords of the Socialist Party! November 12, 2015: Pedro Sánchez dixit: If citizens give me their confidence, I intend to give Parliament the centrality it deserves and limit the use of the decree-law. Great premonition; it was a total premonition. Look at the raw reality: you carry 115 royal decrees-laws approved. Only in the XII Legislature - in which they were a year - passed 35. And to end, if I may, I would like to remind you that the CT has declared unconstitutional the two states of alarm decreed by your Government, and they have not allowed a pandemic management commission of inquiry in this House. But I tell you more, Minister, we have been denied respect and the word given to the People's Parliamentary Group. They undertook to process the Royal Decree-Law 21/2020 as a bill, it took nine months for it to be processed, and they did not accept one of the amendments, nor one, and today they intend to validate a Royal Decree-Law adopted on the 23rd - their Christmas announcement, which I call it'mascarillas' - but they remain preoccupied with not bringing to this House the background issues to fight the pandemic. Minister, I'm going to give you a quick little reminder of the coherence of your government's masks: 19 May 2020, ministerial order - we were in a state of alarm, as you know -; spread of the virus; over 27,000 people had died. Do you know how long it took them to pass the masks? They were not approved until 19 May 2020. Awesome! You approve the mandatory use of masks when there were already more than 27,000 dead. We came to this very House with masks two people, Mrs Olona and myself, and we remember it well. And on June 9, 2020 a royal decree-law, on this occasion with a transcendental modification: they add the meter and a half. That is true, in the Royal Decree-Law of 29 March 2001, they force the use of the mask, but regardless of whether or not the meter and a half is kept; and on 24 June they re-decrease its use, but already specifying that it will only be if the meter and a half can be guaranteed. I mean, this is absolutely embarrassing. They've never had a scientific-technical report that swallows it. That delay in acting, that improvisation isn't just on the masks, it's everything. They declared the state of alarm after 8 March, although they had a very perceptive minister in the government who already saw what was going to happen; WHO had already declared on 30 January the alert; they came late to decree the closure and control of the airports, to the purchase of materials, to diagnostic tests, to the perimeter closure; they insulted the Community of Madrid for setting up the Zendal hospital; they came late to control the strains, they came late to lower VAT, and they came late to lower VAT and set a maximum price for antigen tests. On all these matters the ECDC manifested itself and you did not do so on many issues. Yes, they have advanced in one thing, Minister, the only thing they have advanced is in that unbridled car bomb policy, in announcing June 26, 2020: We have defeated the virus, controlled the pandemic and doubled the curve; and in communicating on June 24, 2021 that the masks had given way to smiles or in proclaiming the flu, that we must have courage. It's all been propaganda, it's playing with the illusion, the illusion felt by millions of Spaniards who want to get out, we want to get out of the pandemic. Madam Minister, take action and validate a decree-law without having a scientific report that endorses it you have recognized it, who have answered us a question saying that you did not have such a report, but a few days later we found out that you had made a survey; I hope that Mr Tezanos did not do so. This is not the first time in my group that we have told you, please, to take action with scientific-technical reports, that you create a committee of scientific truth, that you have not done so. They had to read it from the legal point of view; the Supreme Court did so by saying: With a specific regulation to deal with the pandemic that details the possibilities, as many possibilities as could be precise to offer maximum legal certainty. And they have also ignored the mandate of this House in everything I have said about the Reconstruction Commission. They have under no circumstances facilitated such a public health agency and quality of care, nor a genuine epidemiological surveillance network. And this decree - insofar as it was little - is a strong finding that this government is not interested or does not have the support of its partners to bring to this House the legislative measures that the National Health System really needs. They have stood behind the autonomous communities with their wonderful co-governance, that is to say, the disgovernment; that is, when our professionals leave the skin vaccination and the European Union facilitates the vaccine, we put on all the medals. And if that were not enough, ladies and gentlemen - and here I have to refer to Article 1(2) of this royal decree - you have the courage to empower the government to modify in the royal decree the compulsory use of masks - I wear it, it took it away from me - and I am imagining that we can get up with the BOE saying it masks today, and the following Friday saying no. We understand that empowerment exceeds the Government's ability to regulate this by regulation. We are not faced with a mere modulation of what is laid down in the law with regard to the use of masks, but it addresses the inclusion of new assumptions and the elimination of exceptions, thus exceeding its normative capacity; decision, Minister, arbitrary which generates legal uncertainty and, ultimately, legally more than questionable, and above all articles 2 and 3 and the final provision. I would like to inform you that our group has presented two initiatives in this House, one on the compatibility of the pension for health professionals and the recruitment of specialists in health sciences from non-EU Member States, and the other on the maintenance of the purchasing power of non-contributory social security pensions. We cannot consent to the Government's blackmail of including these two necessary measures in an absolutely futile decree-law. If you do not want to support our initiatives, as you bring almost two royal decree-laws a week, you can bring a tomorrow, because you will not be spoiled by the statistics with 73 decree-laws that we carry, ladies and gentlemen, in this legislature. [[Applauds]] I'm done. For all these reasons, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my parliamentary group cannot support this decree-law, because it would be as much to endorse that Spain today, two years after the start of the pandemic, does not have an effective regulatory framework that prevents us from going back to the show that we have experienced these two years in the future, with seventeen plans of all kinds, descaled, Holy Weeks and Christmases. And from here I keep telling you that you will always find us, Minister, with the hand stretched out to agree on all the measures that make our health system stronger and that they will bet, too, on our professionals. That is why we have offered a state pact to all political forces, because health is worth it, Minister. I will end by telling you that the health workers we are parliamentarians have not been vaccinated, they have been vaccinated. The vaccine has indeed been magnificent in this country and we are satisfied with the degree of vaccination that Spain has, but, as I say to you that, I say to you that time is running out, Minister, for this government. We are living a spectacle, because the Ministry of Health had to be stronger than ever, had to have more presence than ever and, above all, act, as the international health regulations say, minister, as health authority that you are. Now it tells us that the masks will put them or not, hearing the interterritorial council - not approved, but heard -, that is, when you see it timely and convenient. For we, Minister, cannot support it, feeling it very much. Above all, and by the way, we want him to talk to us once; he has never raised the phone to ask us what we think of a rule that brings to the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pastor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister of Health. It seems, Mrs. Darias, that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u131	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u132	... with the turn against Mrs. Pastor has caught you with the step changed and without replica; you will know. It has been two years since the World Health Organization began to give the first warnings about the coronavirus pandemic that has been hitting Spain and the world since then, and that so many lives have cost in its various waves and variants. Until mid-March 2020, the Government disagreed with what was going on in other countries and ended up applying in a surrogate manner, violating fundamental rights, a first state of alarm that at the end and like the second would be declared unconstitutional, at the request of the resources of the VOX Parliamentary Group. A substantial part of the regulatory framework of the Royal Decree-Law that you have just presented to us - nothing less than the thirtieth of 2021 and which mixes labour and pension issues - also makes major reference to masks whose use, as you will recall, was one of the first discordant elements in those early times of infection. Now, given the need to use them as an essential element of prevention, it continues to be necessary for the Government to develop a formula to extend the VAT reduction of masks, also extended to those of the FFP2 type, without the need for the regular blessing of the Minister of Finance, inflexible in her assault on the citizens' pocket through taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, another aspect of this request for legislative validation refers to the recruitment of staff. In October 2020, on the occasion of another royal decree-law omnibus, it supported measures to exceptionally expand human resources in the National Health System with non-Community staff. Since then, the ups and downs of the different waves of contagion have revealed the lack of institutional and administrative support to the staff, because when there have been times of lower incidence, they have been irresponsibly accompanied with less recruitment or worse working conditions, unfairly disregarding the colossal effort of the health workers, who have paid for it with the highest rates of contagion in the world. Today, hospital care continues its sacrificial activity under conditions of permanent fatigue, and primary care continues to overflow, in a new demonstration of the government's inability to lead and coordinate the fight against COVID-19. Therefore, I will reject the validation of this rule and, as Mrs Pastor has rightly pointed out, I also ask the Government to respect the main function of the General Courts, which is to legislate, which is supplanting with this true alluvion of royal decrees-laws. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u134	Thank you very much, President. Minister, this decree is a new blackmail to Parliament. It is blackmail because it is used to mix pensions with masks, and so come and say here that if we do not approve masks it is because we do not agree with pensions. We are going to tell you that it is not enough, that it is enough to blackmail this Parliament, that it is enough to use the pandemic to turn Parliament into a colagade to which all the decrees bring as if this were a tragala, that I believe it is time to respect this institution, that I believe it is time to say things as they are and that this decree is an absolutely banal measure. But it is also that the way to approve it is a huge frivolity. The answer this Parliament should give is therefore no. [[The Lord]] I'll tell you why the content is a total banality. It is a total banality because the only thing they have managed to do to tackle the pandemic is to remove the masks and then put the masks back on, without a technical report, with contrary opinions from many epidemiologists and, of course, with a sound of staging, with a sound of staging because first you come out, convene a Conference of Presidents, a Conference of Autonomous Communities and an extraordinary Council of Ministers to return the smile to all the Spaniards and, at four months, come here with another Council of Extraordinary Ministers, another Conference of Presidents and another Conference of Autonomous Communities to put the mask back on us. Look, do you know what was effective in fighting the virus? That the people who had to go to all the pharmacies in Spain and queue up at the gates of Christmas would have had another price on the tests. That was a measure to fight the pandemic and, far from that, you did it in January, as if this were the rebates, and you also did not worry about ensuring the supply of the tests. It is that this Government has been making absolutely banal decisions for two years and without making any really forceful and truly harmonised decisions. It's just that we've been telling him for a long time now that it's time to set objective criteria for this. Because what cannot be done is that, sometimes, with an accumulated incidence of three thousand, measures are taken more relaxed than sometimes, with an accumulated incidence of eight hundred; and it is not because of hospitalization, because we also see very high hospitalization rates. The other day I set the example - and I again set it today - of a community, which is mine, Navarra, where the hospitalization rate has been higher this year than last year on the same date, when vaccination is supposed to have prevented that, and yet measures have not. What we need is for the Spanish Government to provide a guide once and for all to say: certain objective parameters correspond to certain measures. And not that we are continually in improvisation, because people are tired and have every reason to be tired, because we have been suffering from this for two years now. And we see a Government that has done nothing but leave the functions aside, hand over the hot potato to the autonomous communities and, in many cases, even to the courts of justice. That is why Parliament's answer should be no. Of course, ours is going to be a no-brainer and absolutely convinced. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u135	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u136	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, Minister. Well, I want to start by saying that they have brought us back a sac-type decree, in which we are mixed up with the issue of pensions and, in the end, in a voting situation of all or nothing. We think it's a bad practice. For our part, we say quite bluntly that we are not going to accept this kind of abuse from now on. With regard to the part of the pandemic, the part of the COVID decree, we do not share it in its day, we do not agree with those measures and I want to explain why. We consider that in that decree these measures are no longer appropriate for the sixth wave and, moreover, on full holiday dates. Why? Because basically there are no useful and empirically based measures. Above all, there is a lack of direction; clear messages and contrasting measures are missing, because, after two years of pandemic, in a decree that comes with masks for the outside and retired to work, there is something missing, there is really no need to take necessary measures. And the dangerous thing about that situation is that they create waste, create tiredness and, above all, walking aimlessly what really creates fatigue and social stress in the face of a pandemic or a crisis. That is what this decree should answer to and we do not agree with it. As for the mask, of course, mask is indeed a fundamental instrument, but it is essential if it is used well. What's going on? What many experts tell us is that wearing the mask outdoors, so because yes, it is not effective. And I've heard some experts using the following simile: Wearing the mask outdoors on the street, but entering a bar, an establishment, taking off your mask, sitting on the table and being two hours without that mask, is like the driver wearing the helmet on the street and when he goes to the bike he sits down and takes off his helmet. The main task we must do right now is that the mask is used well, because that would really be the barrier or the instrument to stop the pandemic, because that is what has stopped us. Since December, at Christmas, here it has been fired precisely because the mask has not worked. It is important to give clear instructions, because the population is tired of instructions of tax measures that they see can be useless. I am referring to decisions that have created a waste and that may lead us to think that the mask is just as necessary, for example, as analyzing the air of the interiors, which would be a fundamental element. Why is the COVID passport more necessary, for example, than indoor aeration or indoor air control? Those issues were the elements that would be needed to move to a new phase. We need to move on from stage, eliminate confusion and create measures that are real and that give us tools to respond to this crisis. Look, there were no health personnel hired as reinforcements for the pandemic, the monitoring networks have been dismantled, the public health network is overflowing, primary care collapsed, tracking equipment dismantled, many of the laboratory people eliminated and in the decree we find nothing to respond to this situation. We are in a different situation from two years ago, it is time to stop applying the same measures to situations that are very different; it is time to get out of the loop of the restrictions that do not work and think about new and more effective measures. In this sixth wave it has been shown that vaccines work, protect and save lives, thousands and thousands of lives. I believe that virtually all people agree on this, it is only necessary to compare the data between people vaccinated and not vaccinated in the case of hospitalizations, killed, etc., but governments must act responsibly. Imagine how good it would be if the whole planet had been vaccinated in the same proportions as we are in the Spanish state: we would be in a completely different situation. But the government can put pressure on Europe and others to make that a reality. Here we have the privilege of having vaccines and a huge involvement. As a result, 90% of the population... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u137	One second, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u138	Thank you. People have been vaccinated en masse and have complied; it is time for Governments to comply in that regard as well. And how do they have to comply? Restoring the health service, strengthening it. Faced with that responsibility that citizenship has shown, courageous steps must be taken. On the subject of straw, I should like to make two comments here. First, with regard to minimum pensions, it is high time that there were no minimum pensions of 720 euros; with 720 euros a single person in a house cannot live. Secondly, as far as straw is concerned, we agree with what is proposed, that it should be reinstated for all minimum pensions, but we must denounce that this instrument of straw has disappeared for this year and for the following years. What the straw did in these years of inflation was that the purchasing power lost during the year was regained again with that straw. From now on, in this year we are living there will be a loss of purchasing power for pensioners of more than 5.5%; even if inflation is not more than 2%, the loss of purchasing power will be 5%. I propose to you in this Parliament that we recover this year's instrument of straw as an element of maintaining the purchasing power of pensions. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say that we do not agree with these measures, but we will abstain in this decree by respecting pensioners so that they can regain some of that purchasing power. We're going to abstain, but it's going to be the last time we're going to accept a blackmail of this kind, bringing in decrees of this kind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u139	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u140	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, minister. I intervene to establish the position of the Basque Group both in the validation of Royal Decree-Law 30/2021 and in its subsequent processing or not as a bill. We're going to set a position by analyzing three different aspects. First of all, for us - in the area of public policy where we are, both with government responsibilities at institutional level and in the legislation we are in - what is now an absolute priority is the question of the defence and protection of public health. Therefore, in whatever it is to take measures to deal with and prevent the spread of the pandemic, our position will be consistent and will always be governed by the principle of prudence. It is possible that many of the measures that different institutional areas are taking can generate controversy at some point, even in scientific areas, and do not achieve consensus or unanimity, but that is reasonable. For example, if we review the measures that are also being taken at European level, we find that simultaneously in Austria there can be a curfew at ten o'clock in the evening while, from today on, in Denmark, COVID-19 is not considered a disease of social concern. Or, going further, we have Israel which, as of today, also has a law that will differentiate different contexts while, for example, France puts at the same time the mask in some spaces on the outside. That is because, as we have seen over these two years, the behaviour of the pandemic, although it has similarities, is not always homogeneous. The waves do not begin with the same intensity and the descalation does not go in the same direction either. Therefore, I insist, our position on these public health issues will always be governed by the principle of prudence. We don't want to take any chances that, by risking too much, some life is on the way. Secondly, with regard to the decree - and other speakers have commented on it earlier - it is another popurrí. This is bad practice and actions provoke reactions. It is something they are usually doing, to include in the same decree-law measures of a disparate, different nature, that what can be interpreted, in fact, is that it is a blackmail with which they want to get the proposals they are bringing approved, as for example how we will vote against the updating of pensions of the people who have lower pensions. It is difficult and it is a political practice which, frankly, I understand is not governed by the political honesty of being able to differentiate between the various proposals and so that the different parliamentary groups can determine our position. And, thirdly, I would like to talk about the disposition or empowerment of the Government of the State in order to be able to establish by decree whether or not to use masks. For this reason, as I said before, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the validation of the decree-law, but we are going to vote in favour of the processing of the text as a draft law because, although it seems to us opportune in order to gain in agility, to give greater effectiveness in the response to the pandemic, to draw up this question of reserve law - which is the situation in which it is now, as it is in Law 2/2021 -, what we think is right precisely - and now I close the circle of my argument - because of this different approach, because of lack of homogeneity in some cases, is that the State Executive can effectively have the capacity to determine, depending on the epidemiological circumstances, whether or not to use masks, but also the autonomous health authorities, which are those who have competence in the field of health and who can respond more quickly to this question. Because we have seen that there are autonomous communities, as in our case, in which various very strong waves have entered, and we need our rulers, our health officials, to decide immediately whether or not to use masks in Euskadi without having to be asking, begging, begging for the government to decide whether or not to wear masks, because in that interval we lose a time that is gold. Many times as far as the mask is concerned, in the future - and in the Commission we have talked about it repeatedly - we have to change the approach and start thinking about endemic scenarios, because it is more than likely that waves can appear in some places with great intensity and that the virus also resists to leave, while perhaps I think-you are canary and I was setting the example of Euskadi - on an island of Canary Islands it is not at all necessary to use mask. That is to say, if the behaviour is not homogeneous either at the beginning of the wave or along the wave or at the end of the wave, then the decision-maker does not have to make a homogeneous decision either, but it has to be that competent and closest health authority in order, in fact, to gain speed, speed and make the measure effective. For this reason, we will vote in favour of processing as a bill in order to incorporate this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u141	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u142	Thank you, President. We have given serious thought to proposing alternatives to masking on outdoors of equal effectiveness. For example, if you're going to take a walk on the beach and you're only able to wear a mask or I propose the lucky horseshoe It's exactly the same proven its effectiveness and has the same scientific evidence the mask on the outside when there's a safe distance that is horseshoe, that you can hang it, you can carry it in the backpack. [[shows a horseshoe]] We also claim the rural world, so claimed these days. [[Applauds]] The scientific sustenance is the same. This is more serious - outside jokes - than it seems, because when you are going to impose an obligation you must argue, and you have been unable to provide any scientific study that supports this measure. By imposing arbitrary restrictions in addition to seriously attacking freedom, they give wings to the conspirators and to those who question the entire public debate about the pandemic. You have treated the pandemic from the beginning as a marketing crisis, so Sanchez's homilies at the beginning. They devoted more effort to inventing happy expressions than to acting with scientific rigour. Where is 'the new normality'? What has been of the 'we have defeated the virus' in June 2020? What about the'smiles come back' thing? By this same propagandistic approach they allowed the restrictions to seem like a thing of the autonomous communities, but when the vaccines arrived in Spain they immediately put the government's stickers on them. What has happened to them is that with the arrival of winter and the exponential increase of the contagions it had to seem that they were doing something. It didn't occur to them what and someone said, "Let's put the masks back on the outside; it's no use, but it'll look like we're doing something." This is the key to the matter we bring here today. But nature does not respond to marketing, nature is the largest cemetery of utopias that exists. In Citizens, during the pandemic, we have always been guided by the greatest scientific evidence. We've been wrong, for sure, but we've moved by honesty. Here is the People's Party, which said that with the health legislation there was enough to deal with the pandemic, that nothing had to be changed. That was a few months ago. Today, it defends a pandemic law that repeals all of the above. There is VOX, which the first thing they did was ask for the very harsh state of emergency, which suppresses rights and freedoms beyond the state of alarm and then opposed the state of alarm by hard. All opportunism. In Citizens we listen to scientists from various branches and advise ourselves from the beginning, sometimes at the limit of what we were able to assume. It wasn't always simple, but it was always the right thing to do. They came to tell me on one occasion that science was one more point of view, against a virus! [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u143	Your Honor, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have much time left and it is very tormenting for all those who want to attend to the speaker, and above all for the speaker, that constant murmur. I'm begging for some restraint. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u144	Thank you. They came to tell me that science was one more point of view, against a virus! What is most effective against a virus, vaccine or Marx's Capital? There can be no excess of science, it's not another story, it's the only one subjected to a method. Science is not objective because scientists are objective. Science is objective because there is an objective method after its conclusions. Here, what you face is the scientific method against political propaganda. We have no doubt, in Citizens, in the face of a pandemic, we are with the scientific method. There have been times when not all darkness has been able to light up with science, especially at first, we knew almost nothing about the virus, about how it gets infected, about how to avoid mass mortality, we didn't know. There were shadows that science would take a while to illuminate, but that gap could not be filled with magic, conspiracy or propaganda of its own, and so did most of the groups in this House. There have been attitudes that I hope history will judge sooner or later, playing the conspiracy, saying that the vaccine was a control tool, being ambiguous with the effectiveness of the vaccine, with a thousand daily deaths and here the battle of the story was taking place. The Spanish political class, faced with a situation of life or death, instead of applying the scientific method, does a survey. Today it is a clear example of this way of acting, that we seem to be doing something, when perhaps there was nothing to do, except to continue vaccination. I tell you what the government's main scientific argument is to force us to vote for the mask on the outside, which is voted alongside the pension update. They unite him to try to force the affirmative vote, they use the pensioners. By the way, I'm telling you something that only Citizens say, which is that pensions have grown ten times as much as wages in the last decade. The frozen salary of that super payer who supports the pensions and whom you don't help and never take into account. They're getting it straight with us. We're not collectible, they're not going to force us to vote for the mask through the twisty bullshit of bringing here the pension update next to them. Politics in a serious democracy must rule in the name of reason and evidence, against myth and superstition. It is a great evil for politics to treat its beliefs as oaths of fidelity and not as an assessment of the result of a rational process. The scientific criterion that exists after the application of the mask on the outside is the same as the anti-vaccines, it is the same as there are those who believe that climate change does not exist, it is the same as there are those who believe that homosexuality is reversible through therapies or the same as those who believe that men are born with a congenital predisposition to mistreatment of women. It is a rare occurrence to rule from behind facts, data and scientific evidence. They do it in economics, they do it in criminal politics, they do it in educational politics and they have done it in the middle of a pandemic. A bloody and very recent example we have been able to know through the journalist Juan Soto Ivars, that the Ministry of Equality only publishes the murder of a child if it is at the hands of his father, erasing all those who are at the hands of his mother. Killed children are the least. The same is true of minors who abuse, who will depend on the political sign of the guardian, of the Administration which is responsible for these minors when they are, for example, prostitutes. This social engineering must cease immediately. When in four hundred years they study how decisions were made today in politics, they will see how we see the processes of Salem's witches. We, Citizens, are a party that emerged as a response to magical thought, against those who believe that the ground grants privileges, against druids who thought that stones have powers. We are a party that emerged as a reaction to nationalism, which is the paradigm of superstition and sorcery in politics. When you turn away from reason, when you turn your back on the scientific method, when you want to row against humanism, when you want to dismantle the Illustration, citizens, gentlemen of the government, don't call us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG has acted since the beginning of this pandemic with absolute responsibility. It did so despite the mistakes, the vavenes and the improvisation of the Government at many times, and we will continue to do so. We also always opt for the precautionary principle when we are talking about people's health, and we will also continue to do so. But, in any case, we are surprised that when the Government adopts a decree on 23 December with measures in full expansion of the sixth wave of the COVID, it only incorporates the recovery of the masks abroad. No other containment measures implying that the Government is responsible for controlling the situation, but instead transfers it to citizens. No measure of containment, but also of strengthening public health, of strengthening primary care. They did not even implement that commitment made during the Reconstruction Commission to eliminate the replenishment rate in health care. Older people, of course, incorporated this commitment to incorporate in due course the recovery of the purchasing power of pensioners in the same decree. Insufficient, but absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u147	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u148	It is not good for progress in decent pensions, but we believe that this must be done and this is one of the fundamental reasons why the BNG is going to vote, despite everything, in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u149	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u150	Thank you, President. Minister, they bring us a royal decree where, again, subjects of great importance are mixed with other issues that perhaps have little or nothing to do with them. By bringing the decree-law in this way, in our view, the Government makes two important mistakes. The first is not to take care of people's trust. We are in a pandemic; the scientific community has already warned that forcing us to wear masks outside at this time is forcing us to comply with a measure that is not effective. What would be effective, and still effective, is telework; what is effective is to give paid permits for families with children infected; what is effective, and it is an emergency, is to strengthen primary care, and what is effective is to regulate the price of antigen tests. We have been asking for all this for months and, in fact, we were listened to with the tests, but only after a chaos in the pharmacies. Secondly, the Government makes a second mistake in attacking the confidence of its parliamentary allies as well. You have included in the same decree the obligation to use the masks on the outside together with the extra pay or the hiring of retired health care workers. In the end, what it means is to force us to vote in the same package a measure that no one believes in. We cannot support them, but out of respect for pensioners we will abstain. But parliamentary support is achieved by negotiating and not twisting the procedures. We hope, in any case, that, throughout the process, professionals, scientists, citizens in general and this House in particular can be improved and trusted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u151	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u152	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, minister. Absolutely useless, aesthetic, superficial measure. Nonsensical policies, with no effectiveness. It doesn't help at all to control the sixth wave. That is how many experts in this country qualified the obligation to wear the mask outdoors decreed by the Government last December, a measure allegedly intended to contain the sixth wave, but which has proved to be totally ineffective. On 23 December, the day the government announced this measure, the cumulative incidence at 14 days was 911 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, today we are slightly below 3000 cases. The mandatory outer mask has not been used to contain a curve of contagion that has ascended vertically. The omicron variant has hit virtually everyone, right, but here the government has acted with some slowness in facilitating access to the main tool to contain this sixth wave: antigen tests. In our group we have always tried to have a responsible attitude towards the management of the pandemic, we have supported the Government when it has been necessary because we were aware of the enormous complexity of managing an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis, but after two years of pandemic, with many exhausted people, any action taken must be very well justified and science-based. This has not been the case, because science emphasizes that the essential thing is to protect oneself inside. For this reason, we, like the vast majority of this House, like many experts in this country, were extremely critical of this decree. That is why we are very upset that the Government has subjected us to this blackmail, including in the same royal decree a measure that they know that if voted separately, it would not go ahead, along with a temporary measure to strengthen the healthcare capacity of the health system with more health care and with the upgrading of pensions. We're telling you, minister, not like that. [[The lady]] Madam Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we are going to abstain in the validation of this royal decree because our sense of responsibility makes it impossible for us to vote against such important measures as strengthening the care capacity of the health system and revaluing minimum pensions, although because of their forms and their trillism in bringing together in the same royal decree such disparate issues, we should not vote for them this abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u154	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, I am not going to run out all the time, as I believe that much has been said about what this royal decree means and what it contemplates. Today we present a new decree on urgent measures to prevent and contain the health crisis caused by COVID-19. Nothing new. We believe that this initiative should be linked to health-related measures; that, in principle, would be what we would expect. We can agree, for example, with the point on the recruitment of professionals with specialist qualifications obtained in non-EU Member States. In fact, we see well that the autonomous communities have this possibility of hiring, of strengthening the care activity with staff with degrees from outside; we believe it is important, and right now. We would even see well the question of the compatibility of the retirement pension with the provision of health services. We see that possibility well in order to strengthen the assistance activity for the same purpose as well. In fact, it is an issue that we raised at the time in that same space. In this regard, I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge precisely all those persons involved in the health field who have been offered to work during the pandemic, in a clear gesture of commitment. It has already been done at some point, but I think it is important to recognize it. In this same line, and given the dimensions of the sixth wave, the Generalitat enabled the recruitment of students in the last years of nursing and medicine degree to perform tasks of health assistants. Therefore, they are not measures that are remote from those that are being worked on in the Autonomous Communities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u155	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u156	Whether or not we can agree on the subject of masks, regardless of this - whether or not we can agree with the proposal being put forward - we do not agree with how it is done. We do not agree with the Government's proposal to re-regulate the mandatory use of masks with the inclusion of new assumptions or the elimination of exceptions, depending on how the different waves are happening. We believe that such a measure cannot have a generalist character, since the impact, as has already been said by other groups, varies according to the territory, but it can also do so from variables such as demographic density or even descalation schedules, as has already been mentioned. Therefore, it varies; really, there are variations in the impacts and in the process of managing this pandemic in different spaces. In this sense, we defend the capacity of the autonomous communities to make such decisions on the basis, precisely, of their experience in the management of the pandemic, as they have done so far - let us not be fooled - from proximity and from effectiveness and speed, the speed of action. If we want to extend such a measure to the entire state, we believe that it should be in the inter-territorial council where consensus should be sought. The unilateral decision taken in this royal decree-law is not, precisely, respectful of what you yourselves define as co-governance, because the need for consensus in the interterritorial council is relegated to a background. In fact, what they do is to put into evidence and question the very futility of the council. Therefore, it is not so much what this concrete measure, the mask, represents, but how it has been done and how it is defined. This is perhaps one of the most important points that other groups have expressed. In conclusion - I said that I would not go too long - I would like to say that it seemed to us of pure filibusterism - it has been commented here - as always that they have introduced in this royal decree-law a matter of pensions that has nothing to do with matter. Obviously, it is a measure that obviously seems good to us - it would only be missing - since it is that the persons who receive a non-contributory pension receive during - created - the month of April a kind of plus, of extra pay double, but, sincerely, it is out of place; this is not the space to work. You already know that we do not like the indiscriminate use of royal decree-laws to legislate. We can justify them at a time of alarm and in an emergency period as we have been, but I think we should forget this way of legislating, and even more so if they propose laws like omnibus, decrees laws with elements that have nothing to do with the title proper to the law. You are repeating the same strategy used by the previous governments of the People's Party, and I recall that at the time you were criticizing your way of functioning. That is why we are abstaining. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, not to hold discussions in the Chamber. It is impossible to follow the speaker. Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, right now we've been in a pandemic for two years and, in this long process, we have an A face, which is the one that represents our professionals, our health professionals, with their effort, with their sacrifice, with their commitment. They carry more than 90 million vaccines, more than 90 million doses. We have thirty-eight million people with a complete pattern, 86% of the population. We are the second European country, after Portugal. And I say that because this is a reality. Perhaps in this the gentlemen of the PP also want to continue with their usual negationism. Mrs Pastor has begun by conveying a message to all the relatives of the deceased, to whom I, of course, join, as well as our parliamentary group. In a row, he has also brought a message to the health workers about their effort, their sacrifice, to which I join. But do you know what Mr. Moreno Bonilla is doing in Andalusia? Dismiss toilets. Madam Pastor, you cannot come to Madrid to say one thing and in Seville do the opposite. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u159	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u160	We tell the toilets they're fine, but we leave them lying on the street. When I heard it, I thought: I don't know if Mrs Pastor is talking about Andalusia, because she knows that there the situation of primary care is quite complicated. The other day there was a very important debate on health in the Andalusian Parliament and do you know where Mr Moreno Bonilla was? In Castile and León, electoral campaign. [[Applauds]] I don't have a problem with Mr. Moreno Bonilla going; it's more, if he sees that his partner doesn't arrive, that he throws a cable at him. But let there not be a day when there is a debate on health, because - you have said it here - it is very important, it is vital. Going to Castile and Leon is getting out of the way, getting out of the problem. We must face it: the same thing that the minister is today and that the other day appeared on her own initiative, Mr Moreno Bonilla had to be in the Andalusian Parliament. And that's why I tell you and I repeat that you can't say one thing in Madrid and do the opposite in Seville. [[Applauds]] Like I said, we've been in a pandemic for two years. This wave has been much lighter, because the clinical situation of the omicron has been much lighter. So, that, somehow, has given a breath. But face B is that we continue with the same problems, that is, with professionals, the creators of the success of vaccination, in a precarious situation, with lack of means, with lack of resources. A year ago United We can put forward a non-law proposal here to put an end to the precariousness and temporality that was approved. And what has been done? Well, look, I repeat again what is happening in my land. The collectives, the unions, before the wave said that 6500 were needed in Andalusia. Where are they? I can also talk to you about Castile and Lion and I can talk to you about Galicia. Madam Pastor, health skills are mostly transferred, i.e. that responsibility is shared, and if you say something here, you have to say the same thing in Seville. Look, if you call on the phone, they might not get it, but not because they don't want it, but because they're overwhelmed. If you ask for an appointment for a doctor, they will give it to you within fifteen or twenty days, and this also happens in Andalusia. Minister, I think constructive criticism is also important... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u161	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u162	... within our parliamentary group. I have to remind you - I told you the other day in the Commission, but it is important - that in the opinion of the reconstruction table, where all the parties agreed that an important effort should be made to strengthen primary care - this was in July 2020 - there were 1088 million, and you said the other day that some or all of it had been spent on vaccines - that is what you said -. I understand that we have to buy vaccines and that we can be leaders in vaccination, but it is also important that we look for that money that was going to strengthen primary care, that we find those resources so that primary care is in its proper place. Because it's very good to applaud our health care providers and call them heroes, but they themselves say what they need is resources. In Andalusia there is a demonstration on the 19th - see, Madam Pastor, how well things work- of all health professionals. You will go out on the street precisely because of how well you, the People's Party, are doing in Andalusia and in all the communities where you are ruling. So, how did the saying go? I'm not leaving now. I think it's recipes I have, that for me I don't come... or something like that. [[Rumors]] You understand me, don't you? Then apply the story a little bit. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jara Moreno has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u164	Madam Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are again here to talk about rules and prohibitions that have failed to contain the pandemic, such as Royal Decree-Law 30/2021 of 23 December, which, among other things, regulates the use of masks. We say it loudly: there is no scientific study - I repeat, there is no study - that has demonstrated the usefulness of outdoor masks. [[Applauds]] Of course, they are useful in indoor spaces, and an FFP2 mask is better than a surgical one and is, in turn, better than a fabric one, but none of them are worth anything if it is misused or used longer than due; it is more, they can become a walking focal point of contagion. That's the real problem. But it is a problem that you have preferred to hide, because it would mean treating the Spanish as adults, which this government never wants to do. [[Applauds]] They prefer to subject the Spaniards to absurd regulations and then rejoice at how they obey them, which gives them a sense of domination over the population. [[Applauds]] Better to impose than to report on reality. But, as a doctor, I assure you that the Spaniards have good health criteria, have common sense, and are getting tired of their absurd and unjustified impositions. The Spanish Government and the Taifa governments never inform the Spanish; if they did, they would have to recognize VOX's proposal for the masks to be financed. [[Applauds]] That's the real problem. We have a clear example in schools, where this tyranny is exercised more rigorously. The chances of hospitalization and ICU in children are extremely low and the minimal lethality, so it makes no sense to use masks in recreation and, in a context of high vaccination of the parents, neither in the interior. Adequate ventilation, diagnostic tests and masks suitable for teachers. That's the way to go in schools. When a parent knows that a reused mask is an infection vehicle, we will be fighting the epidemic. When the state funds the masks, we'll be fighting the pandemic. When filter ventilation mechanisms are put in place in public transport, we will be fighting the pandemic. When a family doesn't spend 10% of their income buying masks and antigen testing, we'll be fighting the epidemic. [[Applauds]] This government does not fight the epidemic, all you do is dictate a useless measure to cover up your incompetence. [[Applauds]] Not to finance masks or to cancel the VAT on FFP2 masks is a credible proof that the government puts the collection before the citizen's health. [[Applauds]] You only think of collecting to then waste that money that you steal from the Spaniards in wages for the useless plugs that the NGOs and the ministries parasitize. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Stop bittering the lives of citizens, make recommendations, report well and have citizens decide freely. We're sick of such baseless imposition. That's it! With regard to article 2, with regard to the recruitment of retired health personnel, we believe that the work should be adapted to its risk profile at reduced hours, not at night, and also with an adequate tax contribution and remuneration to compensate them for their sacrifice. In relation to article 3, do you believe that hiring extra-Community doctors will solve the saturation of primary and specialized care? We're telling you, it's not going to be like this. It would be smarter to perform concerts with private health and only go to non-Community specialists if necessary, and always taking into account the opinion of professional colleges. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Finally, the Government has introduced into this royal decree-law a matter that has nothing to do with the essence of the decree - it is an ugly practice that you abuse - where you hang a matter as transcendental as that of pensions, which deserves a separate treatment. It is good enough to use pensioners and our elders as currency. Stop blackmailing this Congress to cover up its inability to give a dignified solution to the weakest people. [[Applauds]] It is always the same, ladies and gentlemen: they throw the bone of the debate at those Tertullians on the left, who come out like dogs of prey to bite and attack the opposition parties, telling half-truths or lying without any kind of modesty to widows, elders or parents of disabled people. By the way, this group opposes the comparative aggravation between pensioners who have contributed and those who have not, when they have very similar pay. We don't care, Ortega Lara's game doesn't pay for blackmail. [[Applauds]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will oppose the validation of this royal decree-law, not only because of the obligation to wear masks or because of its harmful management of human resources in public health, but also because we consider it a genuine aberration and a cowardice on your part, Mr Sánchez, to put in the same package the masks and the management of human resources health along with a subject as serious as pensions. We cannot allow pensioners to continue to be used as a currency of exchange, because it is cruel and inhuman and clearly portrays the ill intentions of this Government: totalitarianism and imposition. In VOX we will always defend the Spaniards, especially the weakest, and that is why we will not allow this blackmail. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Jara. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u166	Good afternoon, Madam President, Minister and ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u168	Madam VOX spokesman, three hundred million masks have been donated and delivered since the beginning of the pandemic. Mrs. Pastor, for a show yours. The truth is, he's touched by a lot of cartoons. They use the pandemic as a weapon against the government, the European funds or whatever, twisting arguments to the point, Mrs Pastor. [[Applauds]] But, well, for the premonitions of Mr Casado, who said that we were going to take four years to vaccinate and today there are 90.8% of the vaccinated population. [[Applauds]] You're talking about being late, Mrs. Pastor. Unfortunately, you never get to defend Spain. This decree-law results from the consensus of the Conference of Presidents of 22 December convened by President Sánchez to discuss, in joint coordination with the autonomous communities, the new epidemiological situation caused by this wave and to protect citizens. The appearance of omicron, its high prevalence and its high capacity for contagion have resulted in an unseen incidence in Spain and which we have faced in better conditions thanks to the effectiveness of vaccination, a key measure in the fight against the pandemic, Minister. High vaccination coverage in Spain is reducing the severity and lethality of the disease, protecting, first of all, the most vulnerable groups. Today, 90.8% of the population over the age of 12 is vaccinated with a full schedule. We also continue to make progress with booster doses and paediatric vaccination, also with the reinforcement of the vaccination teams of the autonomous communities with the armed forces. It is true that vaccination is an unprecedented collective achievement. If I'm allowed the simile, just as cycling is not an individual sport, even if it may seem so, fighting the pandemic is not a matter of one person or institution either. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come this far thanks to our public health system, which has universal access, and also thanks to its professionals. [[Applauds]] And recognize it already, the effort has been of all, but the leadership of President Sánchez and the Ministry of Health has been essential, as well as that of the autonomous communities. Those who have dispensed with personnel, speaking of autonomous communities, are some autonomous communities. The Government of Spain has transferred resources, aside from funding, as never before. I also wanted to say, speaking of vaccination, that we are leaders in solidary vaccination: more than fifty-seven million vaccines in solidary vaccination. That is why I find it striking that many of your ladies and gentlemen, when referring to the pandemic in this sixth wave, are obviating vaccination, which is a joint success to be proud of. But it is true that to the intensification of the vaccination strategy the Government of Spain has added other non-pharmacological measures, such as recovering the obligatory mask on the outside, taking into account the very high circulation of the virus and the exponential increase in cases, which has also been requested by the autonomous communities in a majority way, by the advisers and advisers, by the Interterritorial Council of the National System and by the presidents and presidents. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u169	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u170	I would also like to stress that this external masking requirement is temporary and will be in force during the necessary time, until the current epidemiological situation improves. In addition, seeing the high social acceptance of this measure by the majority of the population, I would like to show here the gratitude of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the citizenry, which gives us daily examples of responsibility. From here we want to recognize him. [[Applauds]] It is true that the Health System has a burden and that it is a consequence of cuts that successive governments of the People's Party applied to health. To alleviate the burden of the National Health System, this decree incorporates the possibility of hiring health professionals, both retired and qualified from the European external framework. All these measures that I have just reported respond and respond to the demands of the majority of presidents and autonomous health advisers, because, as Minister Darias says, co-governance and active listening are key in this pandemic. For example, Mr. Núñez Feijóo requested on December 20 that the mask be re-compulsory outdoors or the Andalusian Junta requested on December 15 that the Ministry of Health be re-compulsory for the use of the mask outdoors by agglomerations at Christmas parties. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when you call for technical reports to endorse these measures, do you not think you are questioning the technical criteria for the decisions that your party leaders call for in the management of the pandemic? You really don't believe that? I think they should be clarified, Mrs. Pastor. I ask Mr. Married the following question. What is your management model? What is the management model for Mr. Casado? Well, I don't think he has it, neither for the pandemic nor for the country - already reminded Aznar this weekend - and if they have it is one, to put sticks on the wheels, to go against everything, boycotting irresponsibly the action of the government whenever they can. [[Applauds]] And ours, the model of Spain, is clear: it is the model of prevention, with measures such as those taken by this royal decree-law; it is that of anticipation, and it is the model of vaccination. It's over. I would like to refer to two other issues of relevance that this decree-law contains. First, the Government is empowered to modify the use of masks in accordance with health conditions by means of a royal decree, on the proposal of the Ministry of Health and after hearing the interterritorial council, thereby gaining flexibility in situations that require rapid implementation of decisions. Secondly, the inclusion of a modification in the State General Budgets for the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions, namely the revaluation of non-contributory pensions, minimum pensions, widowhood pensions or disability pensions with the CPI of 2021. Unfortunately, in front of the Government there is a right that can only cut and privatize the pension system. Ladies and gentlemen, we said this from the beginning, of this we go out together.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u171	Mrs. Prieto, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u172	I would like to end by asking them for their support for the validation of this decree-law, because the desire of everyone and, of course, that of the Government of Spain is to safeguard human health and lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs Prieto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Take your seats, please. We vote first of all to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the General Council of the Principality of Asturias, declaring the strategic nature of the industry of very high electricity consumption based in Spain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 328 plus 13 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 262 plus 12 telematics votes, 274; abstentions, 66 plus 1 telematics vote, 67.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u175	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u176	We shall then vote on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group amending Law 19/2013 of 9 December 2013 on transparency, access to public information and good governance, in order to regulate the statistics of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement. [[pyme]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 13 telematics votes, 343; 275 plus 13 telematics votes, 288; abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u177	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u178	We proceed to vote for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 30/2021 of 23 December, by which urgent preventive and containment measures are taken to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 13 telematics votes, 343; 155 plus 7 telematics votes, 162; 149 plus 4 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 26 plus 2 telematics votes, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u179	It's validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. We shall proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 13 telematics votes, 343; 320 plus 11 telematics votes, 331; 2 plus 2 telematics votes, 4; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-01-CD220201.u180	The Royal Decree-Law will be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. Thank you all very much. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and ten minutes of the night.
