ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the single item on the agenda, on the debate on the whole of the proposal for an organic law transposing European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union and reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorder and smuggling of dual-use weapons. Five amendments to the entire alternative text have been submitted to this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 2 p.m., i.e. from now until 3 p.m. today, for a period of one hour, these amendments will be able to be voted on electronically, which will be the subject of a vote in the Chamber at the end of this debate. For the defence of the amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u2	Thank you, President. Today, the CUP presents an amendment to the whole of repealing two of the historical tools of repression of the protest; the first, used by the Supreme in the sentence that sentenced the independence prisoners, the crime of sedition; and the second, the law of citizen security, known as law gag and that is embarrassed in a negotiation with many limits. Let us not forget that the law has been the subject of reports and warnings by the European Committee of Human Rights because it is a threat to the rights of assembly, demonstration and protest, and it is a fact to note also that the rights of assembly, demonstration and protest are incorporated in the magnanimous letters of the European countries after the Second World War, because the Holocaust has learned that it is essential to oppose unjust laws. What the Government of Progress brings to us today is a replacement of the sedition crime for that of aggravated public disorder. It was said yesterday by the Workers' Commissions, and it was also said by more than forty Catalan entities: the reform of the Criminal Code threatens the right to protest. Some spokesmen in the previous debate wanted to detract from this fact, and we will see what are the three elements that, in our view, threaten the right to protest. The first is the concept of intimidation of people. Intimidation leaves no trace and therefore remains at the discretion of a judge, State security forces and bodies or any PP and VOX militant who from a position of power claims that a public protest has intimidated him. The second issue is the concept of suitability. Suitable to organize an action that alters public peace, which implies the possibility of judging the facts without having happened; that is, preventive intervention. And we already know that this in criminal law always ends badly. The third is the crime of otupation of a public and private space without intimidation or violence, which has ultimately been the form of protest by the movement in defense of housing and student organizations. Some will say that it is better to repeal sedition than nothing and that politics serves to change things, and others will say that this is a betrayal, but the question is useful for who and for what. Our work must be aimed at improving people's living conditions and ensuring the mechanisms for achieving these improvements, and one of them is undoubtedly the right to protest. Look at the right to divorce, the right to abortion, the right to unpaid allowance, the right not to perform compulsory military service or the right to have natural parks to stop real estate speculation on the coast, all these rights have been achieved with protest, and this is the fundamental idea that today the CUP wants to move them. If it is necessary to be useful, it is necessary to be useful to people, because the laws have a trap: once approved we forget the historical context in which they have been driven. This reform is clearly in line with what the democratic tsunami achieved and, if not, they will tell me what is going on with the roadblocks and the occupations of public and private spaces. And that is specifically feared by the PSOE, that civil disobedience is an engine of change, that one and many airports are occupied. This is the reason for the reform of public order, the pacification of independence, and therefore of all the protesting movements. And pacifying when it is done by those who rule is always synonymous with two things: maintaining unequal relations and 'democratizing' society, that is, taking power away from people. Why don't we call for more airport options? The objectives of the protest remain intact: amnesty, self-determination and political resolution of the national conflict. Why not call for more democratic tsunamis to stop the evictions? Why not call for more democratic tsunamis to stop redundancies and get wage increases? Why not convene more democratic tsunamis to end the toxic spills of big corporations? Why don't we stop talking about repression and start talking about action? Because if it's about being useful, why buy the PSOE a change that threatens the right to protest? Why buy from the PSOE a change that goes in the opposite direction to the non-repetition and recognition of the political violence of 2017? And the repression of protest is not new, nor is the persecution of political Catalanism. The question we should answer is: what would happen to this reform with a PP and VOX government? How could the independenceists, the feminists, the migrant people, even the socialists, the federalists, the others on the left, the others on the right protest against unjust laws? Moreover, does it make sense to reform the use so that independence cannot call mass demonstrations? How afraid are they of the power of the people? If you are here today, all of you, if there is what we call democracy in Europe today, it is thanks to the struggle of the workers' movement, it is thanks to the struggle of the people, it is thanks to the struggle of the peoples.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u4	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It seems that the groups that support the Government who have brought a project into this House to lower the sedition and to strike democracy in our country for free want the Spaniards not to know. No wonder they don't want to hear about their little shame, and that's why the other day we were debating sedition with nightliness and today we do it with lightness, the faltering of putting a plenary practically exhausting the deadlines at the regulatory minimum, in a rather flagrant attack on what is the independence of the Legislative Power; and the faltering of putting the debate on the day that Spain and Japan play, to see if that nobody finds out. It is true that it seems that the members of the Government who are not in a debate like this in which we are playing democracy must be much more football than democracy. [[points to the empty blue seats of the members of the Government]] Obviously that's why they're not here. They are not here in a fundamental debate for Spain, because what we are talking about here today is that we play democracy. Few times in the recent history of our country has been as important as now to bring the Spaniards together in a project around the Constitution, around a project of a Spain in freedom, where political pluralism is a value and defends itself, but where law enforcement is an obligation that the Government is giving away. Few times as now, freedom and democracy in this country have been crushed as much as what the Government is doing by pointing out to judges that they do not pass the sentences that the Government wants them to pass, by putting public-money journalists on the target in communication campaigns paid for by all the Spaniards because those journalists do not say what the Government wants them to say, by fingering politicians in the judicial bodies by trampling the Legislative Power, because that is what they are doing, turning this Parliament into an arm at the service of the Government, and handing over the project of Spain to those who have no other objective than to confront us to divide and divide us to dismember our country. Once again, the independenceists with you today have a victory. But that victory is just a mirage, I have told you more times, I repeat it today: you with Sánchez can; with Spain, no. Sánchez has less time every day, but Spain has a great future of democracy and freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. This procedure dispatches a number of amendments, which attempt to avoid a disaster that undermines the integrity of the nation and undermines the constitutional values on which the democratic and legal state, which is still Spain, is founded, despite the machinations of Pedro Sánchez and his associates. The criminal reduction of this crime of gravity augurs renewed clashes of secessionists, which will be much worse than those of 2017; at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, the current anti-sedious regulation does not make any difference with regard to European counterparts. As the Supreme Court has pointed out in its reasoned report on the pardons of the trial, there is no punitive excess in Spain for this offence. In fact, there are more serious criminal types than here, as is the case in Germany, with penalties of high treason that can even lead to life imprisonment. On the other hand, if the magna letter, as stated in article 2, is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, let us head towards the constitutional phosphatin of Sánchez's hand and his needs to move into history, even on gloomy pages such as those that are being written today, a preamble to a disaster for the Spaniards and freedom. In short, I support the full amendments tabled in defence of Spain, but I would also like to congratulate and thank the civic entities, platforms, professional associations and personalities of all spheres of society for their efforts and patriotic example, as well as for their initiatives to alert us to the destruction that is to facilitate the future action of the seditious. I will vote against this piece of legislation by supporting the full amendments tabled by the People's, VOX and Citizens' parliamentary groups. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. In defence of the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Five years ago, we experienced the most serious episode of our democracy in recent decades. Many of us remember it very well because we were right there, in the place of the facts, at the time of the crime. It is impossible to summarise everything we live, not only on that day of the declaration of independence or of 6 and 7 September, but throughout the period before and after the frustrated coup d'état - which, fortunately, did not turn out well - of Catalan nationalist separatism. Many of us have been warning him for a long time. They called us hooligans, exaggerated, told us there wasn't much to do, they weren't going to do anything, they weren't going to dare. And we, who were there in the first row; we, who saw them every day; we, who suffered their abuses every day, knew that they were going to dare. I cannot, as I say, summarize everything that was suffered, but it was months of great anguish, of many calls from desperate people saying: what is going to happen, what are we going to have to do tomorrow. I remember perfectly well the tails of people taking money out of fear of a corralite, and that's something you can't forget. That is something that the Government of Spain has no right to claim to be like a party that went away as a mother. The Government of Spain would have to be here defending constitutionalism and what we are doing today is totally the opposite, because when the coup d'état was frustrated, when the Spaniards stopped the coup, when the State stopped Catalan nationalism, one of the things we thought was that in at least a very long time there would be nothing like it, because we thought, deluded ourselves, that bipartisanism would open our eyes, that they no longer agreed so much with nationalism, that they would no longer fall into the same mistakes. 'Now yes', we think of some. And today, far from doing that learning, we are faced with a collapse no more or less than that of the Government of Spain. We are living in these days similar sensations, because we have already experienced this. We've been through that at 12 p.m. voting. [[Applauds]] That they take away the presidency's word when they say something against the government we've been through. That of twisting the Rules to skip all the procedures to approve what gives the government the will we have already experienced. It is the same, but with the seriousness that this time nationalism does not, this time the Government of Spain does. Why It is true that the previous governments have never protected us, neither the PP governments nor the PSOE governments, have always left us stranded, they have always told us that nothing happened, they have left us unprotected, but what the Sánchez government is doing is directly attacking us, and that has not happened so far. The Government of Spain today is on the wrong side of history, because between the coup and the constitutionalists, it stands on the side of the coup; of those who gave the coup and those who stopped it, it stands on the side of those who gave it, and there is no way to remove it from history. The other day Sánchez was talking about how he was going to go into history - as always, with his dose of humility - and of course he's going to go into history, he's going to do it as the first and only president of Spain able to support himself in those who gave a coup d'état just five years ago, like that president who is able to stand on the side of the coup to do what separatism wants. Because we're going to analyze what we're doing here, why the Penal Code is changing today. What happened in October 2017 is that the coup stopped, nationalism did not succeed, why? Because there was a constitutionalist opposition that stopped them in the plenary of the Parliament and that made an unprecedented mass demonstration, because the Crown acted as expected of a head of state, because the police and the civil guards fulfilled their obligation, because the judges acted, because the law was fulfilled, because there were officials from various state bodies who were defending Spain. What has separatism done? Separatism has analyzed what elements prevented it from succeeding in the coup. And what are you asking the government? Let them be the ones who attack them. That is why the Government has a party dedicated to attacking the Crown every day, because separatism wants the Crown delegitimized and weakened, and there is the Government of Spain to do so. What is separatism doing? He wants the police and the civilian guards to be humiliated, and that's why we have a government that calls for piolines to those who defended us in Catalonia and is dedicated to taking them out of the Navarra Civil Guard as a payment and award to Bildu. What does separatism want? That the officials of the State who fulfilled their obligation be removed from the midst, which is what happened to my colleague and spokesman, Edmundo Bal, who defended Spain, who did what he had to do, and cost him the post. [[Applauds]] That's what happened in October 2017. And what have they done with the Court of Auditors, taking out those who were pursuing the economic part of the offences of the process? What also stopped separatism? Europe. And what is the Government of Spain doing? Delegitimizing judges, delegitimizing our democracy so that the next time separatists go through Europe they have a little more understanding. That is to say, Sánchez is the best Foreign Affairs Councillor the Generalitat of Catalonia has ever had. No one has ever done better as a counselor than Mr. Sánchez for separatism. But you know what? That the state is much stronger than Pedro Sánchez believes. Besides, Mr Sánchez doesn't do it because he's a nationalist, Mr Sánchez doesn't do it because he's a separatist. Mr. Sanchez is nothing. Mr. Sánchez simply has no scruples, no ideology and is able to do anything to keep himself in power. That in the campaign he has to say he's going to bring Puigdemont under arrest? He says so. That in the campaign he has to look into the eyes of the Spaniards and commit not to insult them to win votes? He does. That today he has to come here to remove the crime of sedition because his partners in Bildu and Esquerra ask him to do so? He does. Because Mr Sánchez doesn't have an ideology problem, what he has is a problem that he doesn't have an ideology because he has no scruples, because he's going to do anything to keep himself in power. The fundamental proof of what I'm saying is that the government is doing it fast today, running, putting a plenary session within two days of convening, trying to cover it up with a party from Spain. Why? Because you know this is an infamy, because, what government hides from its laws? If you are so proud, if you have it so clear, why are you doing it this way, why do you want it to be approved definitively before Christmas and no one to know? Because they know this is an infamy, but they don't care. And, by the way, not only must we tell Mr Sánchez, because many of the Members who are sitting here - well, today of the government with twenty-two ministers have no one to come face-to-face - do you know what many of those Members, of you, were doing in the 2019 campaign? [[applause]] Defend Pedro Sánchez when he said no, that they would not insult them, that they would again criminalize the crime of illegal referendum. If you are convinced of what you are doing today, why did you not criticize Pedro Sánchez in the campaign when he promised to do the opposite?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] Shall I tell him? Because they're thinking about his chair, his armchair, and that's because they're going to vote for Pedro Sanchez to say it! And if they have to campaign in a year's time saying otherwise, they will because they have no scruples. [[Rumors]] But, of course, they will not succeed, they will not succeed. We are not only opposed to removing the crime of sedition. What we propose is what a decent government should do, which is to strengthen the State in the face of the imminent threat - which these gentlemen publicly announce every day - that they will do it again. And our amendment to the whole is not just an amendment to the entire text of the Government, it is an amendment to the whole morale of this Government, because we must have very little morale to stand on the side of those who want to repeat a coup d'état. What saved us in 2017 was the state. The government was not up to it, but the state worked, because the Spanish state works, because we are one of the best democracies in the world. And you are here today, Socialist gentlemen, who defended Pedro Sánchez when he said otherwise, defending the opposite of what he said without any kind of scruple, but you are not going to win. You bring here a reform to stand on the side of the thugs, we bring a reform to stand on the side of those who stopped the coup. You want to turn a coup d'état into a bottle that goes away as a mother, we want it to be rebellion, which is what deserves the affront that took place in October 2017! You want the next coup d'état to be cheaper for these gentlemen, we want it to be more expensive for you. [[Applauds]] You want the police, the civilian guards and the state institutions to be weaker, we want you to be stronger. You want judges to be dependent on your criteria at every moment, we want you to be independent and be able to stop those who skip the law. You want a silent and delegitimized Crown in the face of the aggressions of the State, we want you to continue to have all the strength to do what you did in October 2017, which was to defend those we did not find defense in the Government of Spain. In short, you want to have the state knocked down and kneeled before the interests of the government and we want a government that defends the state. Look, this is very easy, it's very easy. History will put everyone in their place, because nationalism will try again and everyone will know what was voted today, who voted today to strengthen the State and who voted to weaken the State and, moreover, for the worst reason. Because it is not that you are convinced that this is going to bring anything good, because, if not, I would not hide it, if not, you would have said it clearly in campaign; you do it because you want to keep the four legs of your chair. I tell you that we are going to continue to defend the State, we are going to continue to defend State officials, we are going to continue to denounce not only what separatism does, but what the Spanish Government does. And this is happening because of who the government partners are. Very briefly. There was a problem yesterday because a VOX deputy called the members of Bildu phylo-terrorists or phylo-etatras. Look, gentlemen of the government, you are doing a laundering operation of your partners, a whitening operation of those who, like Mrs Aizpurua, are condemned for raising terrorism. Mrs. Aizpurua has read from this rostrum an ETA statement! Mrs. Aizpurua has read from here an ETA statement! Mr. Otegi is convicted of kidnapping and has spent his entire life in ETA! [[Applauds]] [[The applause continues]] Of course, the VOX deputy didn't tell the truth, because they're not phylo-terrorists...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u9	Mrs. Arrimadas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u10	... It's directly 1! [[Terrorists]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' and VOX Parliamentary Groups, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u11	In defence of the amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u12	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The bill we discussed was part of a radically false budget: that Catalonia's independence process, preparatory acts, the holding of the referendum on self-determination and the declaration of independence were criminal acts that should be punished. For us it was and is a legitimate political process, which must be resolved politically and should never have been criminalized and persecuted. Because, as Attorney General Maza warned at the time, there was no factual basis for any crime because there was no violence. In any case, we agree - and this is reflected in the alternative text that we present - that it is imperative to address the reform of crimes against public order in the Criminal Code. But this reform cannot consist of a coherent regulation covering the maintenance of a kind of improper sedition, because this is what is done with the proposal presented, subjecting the elimination of the crime to an insurmountable counterpart, such as the expansion of the criminalization of the peaceful exercise of fundamental rights by amending the regulation of the crime of public disorder. This, far from homologating the current Spanish penal system with that of the rest of the European countries under the pretext of resolving problems of legality, proportionality or disagreement with Europe, maintains - and even expands - the criminalization of democratic conduct. This is a purely formal solution that does not respond to a genuine desire to end this distance from European standards of fundamental rights, but seeks that the reparation of the State does not create dysfunctions in Europe; a deception to the European institutions and a fraud to the principles of the democratic state and the rule of law of the European Union. 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thus, no toy is taken away from the judges, but a new toy is given to give way to their contrasting repressive will. Ladies and gentlemen, the crime of sedition has already been abrogated by the judgments of Schleswig Holstein, Belgium and Scotland, and in particular by the UN reports and the Council of Europe resolution based on the Civics report of 2021. In accordance with this case-law, we propose the simple and pure repeal of the sedition offence and a clear and simple transitional regime: review within one month of final and not fully executed convictions, ex officio cancellation of criminal records, termination and ex officio filing of proceedings in which no final judgement has been handed down. Finally, we also propose to restrict the type of rebellion to uprisings that lead to the use of weapons, to reduce the margin of interpretation so that those who must apply it cannot continue the persecution of the independence leaders in exile by other means. I only say to the members of the Socialist Group that I thank them for their sincerity, without hiding their intentions, they have come out with theirs, they have put a goal on their government partner and the parties that are going to vote for their bill. We are grateful for the statements by President or Vice-President Nadia Calviño that the reform is due to the goal of bringing President Puigdemont to justice in Spain, or those of the Socialist spokesman, Patxi López, who calls us terrorists when he says that the reform is being done to end the sanctuaries in Europe. And, of course, we appreciate Mr. Borrell's words, according to which... [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you for making it clear that this reform is a fraud. Mr. Asens, I really don't understand your obsession with Junts per Catalunya. In the discussion he told us that this reform does not affect peaceful protest, that we are lying to people, that we are spreading fake news, that we have disconnected from reality. I tell you that you must also have disconnected from the Amnesty International reality, which has sent a letter to all groups alerting them to the risks of reform. According to Amnesty, the new disorders are contrary to the recommendations of the UN Human Rights Committee, because they broaden the concept of violence and intimidation and allow for the punishment of behaviors such as pushes or traffic cuts in demonstrations, which is what all protesters, students, trade unionists, all do. Amnesty says that the aggravated modality punishes with entry into prison the mere possibility of endangering public order when the demonstration is a crowd whose number and purpose can be considered suitable. The forty entities that have signed the manifesto that was announced yesterday, all post-converging hyperventilated, living in a parallel world, entities such as Alerta Solidària, Alliance de marees e moviments sociales de Catalunya, Ómnium, Irídia, the Union of Students of the Catalan Countries, the Interunion, Ecologistes en Acció, Sindical de Llogators, Élite Taxi, Arran, Endavant, Marea Pensionista, Minyons Escoltes i Guies de Catalunya, Pirates, Tanquem els CIE, the PAH, and dozens more, denounce the criminalization of conducts such as the occupation of a rectory, the occupation of vulture funds or parties, or cutting a road, or stopping an eviction. Mr Asens, you drew the flag that comes from social movements, from the anti-repressive struggle and, from this moral superiority, you denounced the policy of law and order of Convergence and Union, a policy that covered up torture and shared theses with Mr Marchena, as you said. He also referred to the Secretary General of Junts, Jordi Turull. First, not one of the deputies of Junts per Catalunya had Convergence card in the years of which you speak. In any case, having campaigned in Convergence or in the Union is no problem, is it not?, because the four Members of the PeCAT who presented themselves on our lists, but who now vote everything with you, did have Convergence card in 2015, the four, and there are Members and Senators of the Republican Left who had Union card, and you have not said anything about them. So, where's the problem? They did have the card, and we didn't, and it turns out that those who are very bad and participated in the repression of social movements were not them, but us. Let's see if we're clear. Secondly, I think it was a mistake to mention our secretary general, Jordi Turull. What he said the other day discredits him as a human rights defender. How dare you appoint a person who has unjustly spent four years in prison so that you and all the citizens of Catalonia can vote on October 1st? How dare you? If anyone can give lessons in fundamental rights, it is the person who has gone through prison so that citizens can exercise fundamental rights. Third, Mr. Asens. Your trajectory, whether you come from the social movements and the anti-repressive struggle, deserves our respect. You will come from anywhere, but we will not accept any lessons from those who took advantage of the state sewers to campaign against Mayor Trias. We will not accept any lessons from those who are part of a Government that has left the Saharan people behind. We are not going to accept any lessons from those in his Government who hold a minister, Mr Marlaska, repeatedly convicted by the European Court of Human Rights for not investigating torture, and who, as we saw yesterday, is precluding himself from lying about the tragedy that took place in Melilla last June. We are not going to accept any lesson from a government that committed itself to repealing the law gags, but that, after thirty-five meetings, continues to block, no longer the repeal, but a reform of minimums. We will not accept any lesson from a government that understands that the separation of powers is to appoint former ministers for the Attorney General's Office and for the Constitutional Court when they still have a hot seat in the Council of Ministers. We will not accept lessons from a government obsessed with having President Puigdemont before the Spanish courts, and which gives a blank letter to the Prosecutor to attack his lawyer, Mr. Gonzalo Boye, with false accusations; I thank him for saying that they are false accusations. I continue: no lesson from a government that spies on dissidents with Pegasus from the CNI and from the Ministry of the Interior, the Civil Guard and the National Police, and which, in addition, refuses to give explanations. I'm finishing up. Above all, we are not going to accept any lessons from someone who voted for Mr Enrique Arnaldo and the dearest, beloved Concha Espejel for judges of the Constitutional Court; someone who, moreover, did not even stay here, in plenary, to face the day of the vote. I repeat your own words: We remember all that, and we will not accept from you lessons from anything. I will tell you why you have this obsession with Junts per Catalunya, Mr Asens, and it is not because of the meats that everyone has been able to have in the past, but because they do not accept our uncompromised independence, our political action based on fundamental rights, and above all they do not support that Junts has not closed in the defense of the legality and legitimacy of the referendum of 1 October and the declaration of independence of 27. We are not going to fail to commit ourselves to our constituents; we are not going to join you in the strategy of giving stability to the Sánchez government. I'm on my way. Mr Rufián and Mr Bel, I would like to ask you to reconsider this simplistic speech according to which the margin for political action only passes by voting for everything that the Sánchez Government puts on the table. On this path, what is going to happen is that his political action will end up being indistinguishable from what Mr Duran i Lleida was doing at the time. You say, "In politics you're what you get." And I wonder: If what you get is the stability of the Spanish government that refuses to admit the right to decide of the Catalan nation, if what you get is to cover up the lie that there was a problem of coexistence in Catalonia and that this problem is over, if you get this, what are you? Now I'm going to finish. For all these reasons, I appeal to the responsibility of the Members who appeared on the independence lists in 2019, all of them. I ask you to act with generosity and responsibility, to stop being partisan and technical, to support the amendment to the whole of Junts per Catalunya and to work with us to highlight the account of 155, that the independence process was not a legitimate and legal process of national liberation, but a problem of coexistence that, thanks to Pedro Sánchez, has already passed. We ask you to work together to put an end to this account. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u14	Thank you very much. I support, on behalf of Spain's third political force, for the moment, an amendment to the whole with an alternative text; an amendment incorporating point (k) of article 39 of the Criminal Code, for something that should be logical in any legislation, which is simply that anyone who attacks the nation, if not a national of origin, loses his nationality, because Spanish nationality is a right and is a privilege and cannot be granted to those who attack that unity. [[Applauds]] Last week, several of the parties who openly defend in this House the permanent attack on national unity, who advocate permanently for the breaking of the coexistence between the Spaniards, the most absolute contempt for the Constitution, applauded euphoric when I announced that proposal. I'm telling you, you don't need to be applauded. Stop wasting your time. You don't have to spend as much effort on your longing independence as you call it. It is very simple: give up Spanish nationality; take a plane and leave. [[Applauds]] It's very easy; they have it very easy. Mr. Rufián, it's very easy. Have the courage to renounce Spanish nationality; ask for nationality in North Korea, Cuba or Venezuela. Take a plane, get out of here and leave us alone, because if there's something the Spaniards can't bear, it's the hard face and hypocrisy of those who are here paying a salary and are undermining and breaking national sovereignty from within the institutions to get subsidies, money for their chiringuitos and continue advertising hate and separatist lies. [[Applauds]] Give up Spanish nationality, be brave. If you hate Spain so much, the Spaniards, their history and their institutions, you renounce Spanish nationality, but, yes, you must leave without taking a single apex of what belongs to us all, not one centimeter of our land and our soil, not one of our rights, not one of our institutions. [[Applauds]] We also propose in this amendment to include in its entirety subparagraph (c) to article 432 of the Criminal Code, in order to further strengthen the crime of embezzlement, which some, probably for their Andalusian interests, are already trying to reform until they leave it in the water of drunkards. Because, in the end, what do we say? It is very simple, and it is also very logical in any legislation, that anyone who allocates funds or resources for purposes that are contrary to the Constitution itself, in order to violate national unity and the rights of all Spaniards, must be convicted of an offence of embezzlement and, in addition, that offence and penalties must be reinforced if they are public office. The third issue that we add in this amendment to the whole: a new article 484 bis, so that, in everything that is considered a crime against national unity, when those who engage in it are officials, authorities or part of any government of the nation or work closely - as happened in 2017 - with some foreign nations or with foreign organizations, the penalty is increased to twenty years of imprisonment and twenty years of disqualification, and, of course, that those who do not have nationality of origin lose Spanish nationality. [[Applauds]] Similarly, we propose the addition of points 2 and 3 in article 543 of the Criminal Code, so that anyone who commits outrages and offenses against the Spanish nation with an obvious and clear objective of encouraging, protecting or exalting terrorists or the purposes of terrorists, violating the Constitution or carrying out coup movements against the unity of Spain are sentenced to up to two years' imprisonment and disqualification. Fifth. With regard to the crime of sedition that this Government wishes to repeal. Increase the penalties to a maximum of fifteen years, because we all know - and I repeated it in this very rostrum last week - what is the reason why this crime is being repealed. It is an absolutely well-known reason for the vast majority of Spaniards. It has a direct relationship, first of all, with the approval of the budgets and, lastly, with this pact against everything that Spain represents, against all the constitutional or criminal defence mechanisms that Spain has. In the end, we said, it is to encourage the fugitives to return, the convicts to be able to see their disqualification penalty reduced and that, in the end, that effect called - the effect called, in this case, the coup d'état - is a reality, because the less defence mechanisms the State has, the easier it is for those who want to destroy. I would like to appeal from this rostrum, as some fellow Members of my group have already done, to a fundamental right of all Spaniards, but especially of those who have the status of representatives of national sovereignty; I would like to appeal to the right to freedom of expression enshrined in article 20.1 of the Constitution, the right to be able to express freely any thought, idea or opinion, in word or in writing. It seems incredible that we have to raise our voice in this Parliament, but it is better to do so now than to regret one day for turning us into the Cuban, Venezuelan assembly. We prefer to do so now, that we are still in time, for the Spaniards to react, so that as soon as possible we leave the Moncloa to whom he has openly decided to hand over Spain on a tray to those who openly decide its destruction. [[Applauds]] We have been called upon by the presidency of this House over and over again to respect the Rules of Procedure. For we, who are the first to respect the laws and the Constitution, the first to demand their compliance before the courts, in the media and in the streets, say that in order to respect this regulation - which we do every day - we must be prepared to respect the rule on which the Rules of this House are based, which is nothing other than the Constitution. [[Applauds]] And if the Constitution is respected, no one can be protected against the foundation of the Constitution, which is, according to article 2, the Spanish nation, the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And because the nation is before and because historical institutions, laws, constitutions, customs, our territory, our different forms of state throughout history are before this Constitution, the Constitution has no value if its foundation, which is the nation, is despised or attacked. And if we attack the nation, we attack national sovereignty, which belongs to all Spaniards. Therefore, from this rostrum, in exercise of that fundamental right to freedom of expression, in no respect for the Rules of Procedure of this House, in no respect for the Constitution, but, above all, in no respect for the nation on which it is based, we say that whoever attacks the unity of Spain, who despises the historical coexistence of the Spaniards and who does so from the institutions is a couplist. Whoever defends, defends or exalts the murderers of the terrorist gangs is either a flootera or a protera, or, if I'm in a hurry, a very long time ago. [[Applauds]] And there will be those who are upset, but they will not change the meaning of things, even if some want to erase in their censorship the whole dictionary, because freedom consists precisely in being able to say here, in the House of National Sovereignty, what millions of Spaniards think and say on the street: that we want clean institutions of parties that openly, by action or by omission, are favoring and driving the destruction of the Spanish nation; that we want free institutions of those who use public funds, misappropriating them, for the objectives of exalting terrorism or destroying the nation; that we want loyal institutions with the Spanish, loyal with the Constitution, loyal with the rule of law and compliant with the law; that we want, in short, institutions where the Spanish are defended, where Spain is defended and where freedom is defended. And until we do, we will continue to fight in this House - some like it or not - in the courts, in the streets, in the media and where we are being fought, because we have neither come to kneel before the separatists nor to be afraid of the florets, let alone those who defend and tolerate them. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. In defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u16	Madam President, with your veneration. Ladies and gentlemen, this extraordinary and urgent plenary session should be to rectify the law of yes and avoid further exits to the streets of sexual aggressors, not to repeal the sedition and favor the partners of the government, which precisely, as Otegi says, want to break Spain. [[applause]] That's where we are, ladies and gentlemen. And we are twenty-four hours away from the strongest slander that has been said here against the People's Parliamentary Group by a Minister of the Government of Spain, and you have not yet resigned, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. [[Applauds]] And when that happens, not only is the dignity of the Socialist Parliamentary Group tarnished, but that of this whole House, and society is given a very bad example. When that happens, the entire Government is responsible for those words, and when that happens, the President of the Government is responsible for not ceasing to whom he has said them. [[Applauds]] All accounts in politics and in life; facts count, and words, too. We see how you are in a hurry to change the Penal Code to repeal the crime of sedition, but you are in no hurry to amend it and rectify the law of yes is yes. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, next week we will celebrate the XLIV anniversary of the Spanish Constitution, which was the collective achievement of an entire country, which has allowed the highest degree of protection of rights and freedoms we have ever had and the highest degree of political decentralization. The Government and its partners overshadow this anniversary with this shameful penal reform, which undermines the value of the Spanish Constitution and weakens the rule of law. That's Kelsen's law theory. Precisely, the Government wants to go against the Constitution, which is above all laws, through other laws to rig it. I've never seen anything like it before, ladies and gentlemen. They stand up from the government every day against our rule of law, our rule of coexistence, and, like last week, they bring back a debate with urgency and night, to see if it happens quickly and unnoticed, so that people will know as little as possible, to approve it as soon as possible and so that tomorrow's scandal can be covered with the scandal of the next day. They have turned the Council of Ministers into a scandal market in which every minister competes to overcome others. How annoying are the legislative procedures, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group; how it bothers them to account for what they do with the Penal Code that they have not even been able to face; how they hate the reports of State institutions. They live on constant treachery, always looking for subterfuges to shorten deadlines, divert attention and blame others for the results of the laws they pass, laws that are an unjustifiable misconception before the public. That's why they re-introduce a debate of enormous importance in Spanish politics, although it seems to some that it is not. It is a debate that portrays those who govern; a debate that portrays for those who make the laws the Government. We have told you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, and we reiterate this: the crime of sedition is only a problem for those who have been convicted of committing it, who are the parliamentary partners of this government, although now it also seems to be a problem for the government. Have you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, bothered to ask the Socialist Party voters what they think about this which you are bringing to this House today? I have spoken to people on the left who have voted for socialism usually, respectable people, friends and people whom I admire, and I say so because I do not mind saying so, and they do not agree with what their party is doing. Ladies and gentlemen, these socialist voters do not recognize this Socialist Party which is dealing with the repeal of the sedition. [[Applauds]] I know they don't like to hear it and that they owe it to group discipline, but it wouldn't be wrong to break it sometime out of respect for their country and its voters. Ladies and gentlemen, your initiative to repeal the sedition is to pay the Government to independence, with the law of all and at the expense of the equality of all before the law. They benefit separatism because they benefit themselves, that is their game of power: a society of mutual interest to the government and of general injury to the rest of the Spaniards. How sad, ladies and gentlemen, is to see a party losing its principles and how harmful this government is to Spain, a government which, while losing those principles, has logically lost its identity with those facts. First, criminals who went against the State to bargain with them were released, despite the fact that the criminals told the Government that they would do so again, and now repeal the sedition to release the corrupt to the dictate of those criminals, who are the ones who are dictating the law that they bring here today, ladies and gentlemen, to the dictate of those criminals. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the Members of the People's Party in this House already know what we are up against when we debate with you. You are you, but it is not just you; you are also Esquerra and Bildu, because you go the way they tell you, not the way the Spaniards tell you, the way we are committed to the rule of law. You are no longer known for what you promised, you are known for your deeds. Your partners have gone by the box, and you and Mr Sánchez will continue to spend the time you have left, but your credit with the Spaniards is over. Ladies and gentlemen, after the blow of separatism to institutional coexistence in 2017, any responsible European government would have taken the necessary steps to strengthen the state and ensure its coexistence. However, this Government is following the opposite path: it has chosen independence and radicalism as strategic partners. That is the only Spanish anomaly in Europe, and not the Criminal Code, which is perfectly homologable, as other speakers have said, to that of the most advanced democracies in the world. Don't put any other rare names on this law, like the ones you bring here. Tell the truth, ladies and gentlemen. In politics, people must be told the truth. Be brave and tell the truth: This is to stay in power, to keep Mr Sánchez one more year in the Moncloa, has nothing to do with the general interest of Spain and the Spanish. That is why my group is submitting an amendment in its entirety to strengthen the rule of law, equality before the law and democratic coexistence. We propose the criminalization of the illegal offence of elections or popular consultations by referendum, including a new article of the Penal Code, the 506 bis. It is a dissuasive legal instrument, which is essential so that institutions cannot be used against the territorial integrity of the State itself or the coexistence of all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist bench, they presented themselves to the general elections of November 2019 - remember it - on the public promise before all the Spaniards and on time of maximum hearing to criminalize the crime of illegal referendum. That was his promise to all Spaniards, and now they have the opportunity to keep his word. We give them a chance to prove they weren't lying. Do that favor to yourselves and to your already damaged credibility, but above all, do that favor to Spain and the Spanish. Will you support this amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, or, on the contrary, will you follow the maximum of: these are my principles, but if the separatists demand it, I have others? We also propose the maintenance of the sedition offence as currently drafted in the Criminal Code, because all the Government's argument is about a fallacy. The reality is that the 2017 coup stopped the application of article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, which made it possible to restore autonomy and legality; once again the Constitution to the hard and the mature, always to protect our freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that the 2017 coup stopped the action of the judges and courts, in application of the offences precisely provided for in the Criminal Code, condemning those who had committed the crime. It was the action of the State, which had legal instruments to do so, that developed that coup attempt. Independence was broken and discredited by that, not by you. Independence failed because there was a state. However, all, absolutely all its policies with regard to Catalonia have been aimed at undoing that path, at eliminating one by one the instruments that stopped the coup, with the negotiating table, with the attacks on the independence of the judiciary and with the pardons, precisely when those who were being pardoned said that they would do it again, ladies and gentlemen, before the stupor of all the Spaniards. And, ladies and gentlemen, they want to complete a new maneuver with the appointment of the Constitutional Court. Do you realize that you are appointing the Minister of Justice of the Government who signed the pardons? With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen, that is absolutely unacceptable, first of all, because of the forms and then because of the substance. Ladies and gentlemen, what guarantees of impartiality will the appeals go to the Constitutional Court about these circumstances? Do not continue to try to discredit judges and the courts. The repeal of the sedition, ladies and gentlemen, is an amendment to all of you to a Supreme Court ruling, because it is expensive and that is unacceptable to the rule of law. The Government tells the rule of law that the rule of law is the Government, and that is equally unacceptable, because what the Government has to say to the State is that we all work for the general interest of Spain, including, of course, the State. And that the criminals who defy Spain cannot, ladies and gentlemen, be partners of anyone. They have to stay alone with their cowardice and their sorrows to never do it again. That is the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, and it seems a lie that we have to come to remind the Socialist Party today. That's the stage, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The Government designates itself to interpret its own laws. What will be next, ladies and gentlemen? Is President Sánchez going to stand as president of the Constitutional Court, perhaps? Does the President of the Government really believe that he represents all the powers of the State, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group? Ladies and gentlemen, if not even Mr Sánchez can now represent his own word. His irresponsible act of judicializing politics creates a feeling among citizens that the law is not the same for all, and that is not good, because the law equates us all and we are all subject to the rule of law. In another matter, we also propose, ladies and gentlemen, to amend article 140 of the Criminal Code to introduce, among the circumstances for which the murder will be punished with a reviewable permanent prison, when there is a decaying concealment or the perpetrator would have previously been convicted of the crime of murder. We are with the families who have suffered the loss of their loved ones, now and forever. I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment we are presenting is an instrument of political dignity for Spanish democracy. It is an amendment that strengthens the rule of law against those who attacked it and have already said that they will do so again. It is an amendment that guarantees the coexistence of Catalan society that independence wanted to break in 2017. It is a proposal that protects the equality of all Spaniards before the law, the territorial integrity of Spain and social cohesion. In view of this way of doing this government's policy, there is hope, ladies and gentlemen, there is an alternative. In conclusion, Mr President. I would like to thank my President Feijóo, my spokesman and all my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party because they are Spain's hope.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u17	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u18	Because not in a long time - and I conclude, Mr President - the People's Party will again rule and the crime of sedition will return to the Penal Code, as will the dignity of politics. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u19	Thank you. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u20	Thank you very much, President. I will speak from the seat because I will do so very briefly and simply to indicate that last week we voted in favour of initiating the process of reforming public order offences and, among them, sedition, without prejudice, of the amendments that each group could propose during that process and that it might well be, in their case, that are integrated into them as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that we do not consider it appropriate to change the initiative we adopted last week for some of the ones we are now discussing in order to deal with the modification of public order offences and, among them, sedition offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u21	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u22	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Just one previous, Mrs. Arrimadas, stop trying, the copyright against anticatalanism has already taken away VOX. [[Applauds]] And yes, he is right, the plenary and the party have agreed not to talk about the issue today in Spain or Japan. And, Mr Ortega, I'm only going to tell you one thing, that those who hate a part of the Spaniards - the red ones, as you call them - are you, those who don't think like you. We don't hate anyone. [[Applauds]] Look, our target is clear and hasn't changed a bit. For 91 years, Esquerra Republicana has been defending Catalonia's self-determination. Our commitment to the 'de-judgment' of the political conflict is clear and this is one more step. We assume that neither this reform is ours nor this is our Penal Code, but what is the alternative? Either we stay as we are or we try to improve reality with the strength we have. This reform is not random, it is the result of all the work carried out in all European and international spheres from whom we have obtained resolutions that have highlighted the obsolescence and the disenchantment of the Spanish Penal Code with the laws of the European countries; but above all, of our negotiating force, and we will continue to do so. [[Applauds]] And the Socialist Party has positioned itself at the end of European standards. Ladies and gentlemen, the disappearance of the crime of sedition is an achievement because, with the judgment of 1 October, when this crime was used almost for the first time, the precedent was created of being able to condemn by sedition with very high penalties social and political movements. To this day, anyone who concentrates or manifests himself to protest peacefully faces a crime of sedition. Therefore, if we finally succeed in repealing this crime, we will really protect the freedom of expression, of peaceful demonstration, of the right of assembly. But we still have all the legislative procedure ahead of us. We'll see how it ends. It is clear that the Spanish Government has placed this new crime of aggravated public disorder on us, but it is also clear that we will try to ensure that this crime is very well defined, that is, that violence is demanded. [[Applauds]] That is why everything can be improved during the parliamentary process. And it is good, ladies and gentlemen, that there is debate to improve the typification. Type that means the description or wording of criminal conduct, so that the courts have less room to decide. All to prevent any court from exceeding, as we have already done, the independenceists, by arbitrarily applying a sedition offence that was justly not well drafted or well defined. And we cannot allow it to happen in any criminal way that may eventually affect human rights and fundamental rights, which we are trying to protect, which are the right to freedom of expression, peaceful demonstration and assembly. Let us take this opportunity to give maximum effect to criminal conduct in order to prevent abuse by the courts and to ensure that they do not make policy, because the courts must stick to the application of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very surprised that these days the interpretations that are being made of the text of the proposal are interpretations that are generating an unfavourable debate for the social movements and the rights we want to protect. Let us not act as devil's lawyers instead of making a favorable interpretation of what we have on the table, which is precisely to prevent the crime of sedition from being applied to any trade unionist, protestor or social movement who wants to change things. [[Applauds]] What do we have right now? We have a Penal Code in which anyone who objects to what any authority says can be convicted of sedition. First step: this, from the outset, disappears in the proposal. Secondly, the crime of serious public disorder - which could now be applied to all those who were, for example, with their faces covered, and for whom very serious penalties could be applied - is also prevented by the proposal and, moreover, we demand the requirement of violence. That there are things that can be improved? Yeah. And what do we expect during the parliamentary procedure and in the public and social debate that has been opened to improve? Here we are. [[Applauds]] The situation we have now is very serious and this is the first thing we are trying to combat. This is good news for the independence movement, but also for trade union movements and social movements. Just as in crimes of aggravated public disorder, violence must be effective and demonstrable if it is to be applied. With this reform it is very difficult to know that the courts are going to try to implement a new Penal Code that has been adopted, and it is difficult to trust that the interpretation is fair. But, I insist, we are at a legislative stage, and here the principle of lege ferenda must be present; that is, the spirit, what we want as legislators with this law. We are working on the amendments with the parliamentary groups, and this is a step forward and an opportunity to improve it. We'll be very demanding. Ladies and gentlemen, fundamental rights are at stake and it would be an immense irresponsibility to renounce the force of transformation in all areas, especially in fundamental rights. I'm running out, President. We have come a long way, but we are aware that this is not enough. For Esquerra Republicana no proposal that is below amnesty will be sufficient, but we will use all our strength and, if all independence is committed to negotiation, we would have even more strength. As our president, Oriol Junqueras, says, we are not content with anything other than amnesty, self-determination and independence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u23	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u24	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Arrimadas, a preview, the game is at 8:00, not now. Neither Qatar nor Congress are under counter-programming. Secondly, you speak of the need to respect sentences and today you have come out to speak of a coup d'état. It was read... [[Mrs. Arrimadas García is speaking to another Member of Parliament]] Mrs. Arrimadas, I'm talking to you; please, I'm addressing you. You always talk about respect for sentences. That's right, isn't it? You must respect the Supreme Court's ruling that Catalonia was a coup d'état. And, thirdly, Mrs Arrimadas, you participated in the election campaign with me in television debates. Do you remember what the Independenceists proposed? Independence and amnesty. What do we propose? Derogation from the offence of sedition. Don't say that's the independence road map, because this is our road map. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the other day I spent twelve minutes explaining why the sedition crime of our legal system should disappear and you have made no effort to rebut any of those arguments, so only you have tried to rebut one, that of... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u25	Wait a minute, Mr. Asens. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u26	... that this crime has no match in Europe, saying that in Germany there is the crime of high treason. Ladies and gentlemen, read the judgments of the German judges, the crime of high treason has to do with rebellion, not subjection. The sedition in Germany removed it from the legal system in 1970 as unconstitutional, and it is precisely we now do what the Germans did before. You have repeated the same lies as last time, announcing all kinds of calamities, when here really what we are trying to do is fix the conflict that you provoked and enlarged. First, when they broke the territorial pact of the Transition; then, when they responded with authoritarianism to a peaceful movement that demanded respect and, finally, when the process began, with prison and with fucking blows. Do you know what your problem is? They do not want to recognize the obvious, and the obvious is that there is a political conflict in Catalonia. What if not the fact that half the Catalans want to leave Spain, especially when you rule? What if not the fact that the majority want to vote in a referendum? That's called political conflict, here, in Catalonia, in Quebec, in Scotland or anywhere. Do you know what your problem is? For you understand that politics is like a picture of Goya, a duel to batons, and you care about what you say in Europe, in the Council of Europe, which said that this had to be resolved with dialogue and agreements. Do you know what your problem is? That they have a very particular conception of democracy, and today we have seen it again when Mr Rojas spoke of this as an intrusion into the judiciary. We're back on that idea. It's not the judges' government. Democracy is the rule of law, not the rule of judges. That's the core of the separation of powers. Democracy resides in the people and the people are expressed in this Congress, in the Legislature. The legislature, the judges apply the law, the will of the legislator. If the legislator believes that a law needs to be changed, when you are an absolute majority you do, and if there is an alternative majority here, then it is also done. That's democracy. [[Applauds]] You don't understand basic concepts, and that's why you'll get into the General Council of the Judiciary because you believe that power is yours. They have a heritage view of power. Mr. Ortega, I'm gonna give you some bad news. If your parents have a better pension, it's thanks to Esquerra Republicana, Bildu and Unidad Podemos. If your sons and daughters can have a higher interprofessional minimum wage and a fixed contract, it is thanks to Esquerra Republicana, Bildu and Unidad Podemos. And if you pay a bill for the lowest light, too. [[Laughter]] You have spoken today of coups and phylo-terrorists again, of anti-Spain. Anti-Spain defends Spain and its citizens better than you. Why don't you change your nationality? You have today defended a very peculiar view of what is at stake in this debate. They propose a new criminal type, crimes against the nation, and three cases to lose nationality. The truth is that I am surprised, because you consider that popular sovereignty is not in the Spanish people - you have said it on other occasions, but also today - but is in the nation. But what is the nation? It's a kind of entelequia you're in contact with, you're the interpreters, the representatives of that nation, and when you think it's threatened, you come out to defend it. If most Spaniards want to kill Spain, we will stop it. These are your words. Do you remember? Well, that's denying popular sovereignty. You are lucky, because you deny that sovereignty is in the citizens, in democracy, but democracy is above you and you are protected by the right to say true barbarities that to me, by the way, it sounds a lot to me to the concept of volksgeist, of the spirit of the people, which the Nazis defended. You will explain to me what the difference is, but to me it seems very similar to fascism. [[Applauds]] And lastly, I have only one minute, I would like to devote more time to Mr Pagès and Together, but it will not be possible. You, ladies and gentlemen of Together, are the party of the non-permanent. First they were against the pardons to the prisoners, after the dialogue table, now against this reform... Yes, indeed, they wanted to disconnect from Spain, but they have disconnected from reality. They're in a parallel world, in a very narcissistic bubble, and I think theirs is a cognitive dissonance problem. In order not to be Convergence, they look a lot alike when using the same Convergence fake news as Trias. 80% of the Convergence party, Mr Pagès, is in its ranks. Also your secretary general, to whom I have a lot of respect and to whom I believe I have visited prison more times than you. He is doing politics and, therefore, his comments can be criticized. Do you know what your problem is? That you are installed in the logic of the worst, the better; in a program of maxims that is always more theoretical than real and have no intellectual rigor. They're not equanimous. You have spoken of Amnesty International, a statement with which we agree, but Amnesty International talks about the positive aspects of this reform.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u27	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u28	Yes, it's over, President. I'll leave you a question for you to meditate on. How do you explain that you are defending right now the same regulation that the People's Party defends in its amendment to the whole? The People's Party is arguing that the crime of public disorder is the same, without changing a coma, and so are you. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u29	Your Honor, please, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u30	Think about that question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u31	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the transposition of different European directives and the modification of the crime of sedition and public disorder, and many might think that today we have had a debate on legal aspects, on comparative legislation, even on the adequacy of our legislation to European standards, but you have all seen the debate. None of that. Today, those who tabled the amendment of all that they have done are talking about Catalan independence and the action of the government of Pedro Sánchez in Catalonia. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the right, let us talk about the government's action in Catalonia. This government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, does politics in Catalonia. And to do politics in Catalonia is nothing but to seek the general interest with dialogue and agreement, quite the contrary to what you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, have renounced to do politics in Catalonia to do politics with Catalonia or, rather, to do politics against Catalonia. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] Its policy is to confront some Catalans with others, to confront the Catalans with the rest of the Spanish and to confront Catalonia with the rest of the country. Something that's not new, it doesn't surprise us, everything has to be said, why it's what they always do. That's what they always do when they're in the opposition, because when you're in the government your behavior with the nationalists and with Catalan sovereignism changes and changes quite a bit. Mr Rojas, when you are in the government you transfer powers to the government of the Generalitat, such as the management of prisons. Now, that's right, when you're in the opposition, you even criticize the skills you've transferred yourself. Curious, isn't it? It is also curious that when you are in the government, you announce billion dollar investments in Catalonia. Rajoy did it in his last term. Now, as a socialist government announces, that is an aggravation and an affront to the rest of the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] But there's more. When you are in the Government you create an agenda for dialogue and put Mrs Sáenz of Santamaría at the forefront of that agenda for dialogue, nothing more or less than a vice-president. Now, that is, when you are in opposition the table of dialogue between the Generalitat and the Government of the nation is a concession to Catalan independence. And, let me be funny, when you are in the government you speak Catalan in privacy; now, that is, when you are in the opposition you use the language to face Catalans and face the country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have always been territorial tensions in our country, always. The problem is that the right has never understood our country, never understood that our country is plural, that our country is diverse, that our country is different in its different regions. You've never understood that. And therefore, as you do not understand, gentlemen of the right, that is why you are incapable of managing any tension or any territorial issue. We saw it at the beginning of our democracy when, for example, they opposed the development of the autonomous state, how they did what was unspeakable so that my land - and yours, Mr Rojas - Andalusia could not achieve a first-rate autonomy; how they did what was possible and impossible for Andalusia not to achieve that first-rate autonomy that it achieved, despite all the obstacles that the right-wing put in place. What did the socialists do at the time? To be able to set in motion a state of autonomy that responded to the aspirations of all the territories of our country; an autonomous state of which we are proud and which, of course, is a model to follow and a model of success for many countries. Yes, the Socialists did know what Spain was like, we did manage their differences and their plurality. That is why we are the only party that has ruled in each and every one of the autonomous communities, because we are the ones who understand Spain best, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] We did it in Catalonia in 2005 with dialogue, with agreement and with a new Statute that approved the Catalan people and the General Courts and that responded from the legality, no doubt, to the aspirations that had much of the Catalan people. And what then did the right, who was in opposition? Well, he did what he always did, face it. Signs were collected throughout Spain to try to boycott the Statute. Not only that, Mr Rojas - you will remember - in our land, in Andalusia, they paid for an advertising campaign to make Andalusians believe that the Statute of Catalonia harmed them; and, as always, what they did was to bring to the courts the Statute to try to get in the courts what they did not get in the polls or in this House. [[Applauds]] What they always do, Mr. Rojas, the usual. Perhaps that is why you do not want to change some bodies such as the General Council of the Judiciary, because you always have it as your last resort. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists, as I say, were able to make a new Statute in Catalonia. However, two illegal consultations and a declaration of independence were obtained with you. And let me ask you a question. At that point, where was the PSOE? He was supporting the Government - I repeat, he was supporting the Government -. When 155 was activated, where was the PSOE? He was supporting the Government. [[Applauds]] And you know who runs the PSOE? The same President of the Government, Mr Pedro Sánchez, who you now accuse of being a traitor, even a dictator; the same, ladies and gentlemen, the same. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, I am certain that you prefer that Catalonia of the year 2017, the Catalonia of division and confrontation, because that is where you move, where you do politics, in the crisp and confrontation; therefore, you would prefer that Catalonia faced and crisp of the year 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not built with you, because you destroy. There is no dialogue with you, there are insults. You don't bring, you confront. With you there are no solutions, no agreement, no progress. There is no politics with you, and as you have renounced politics in Catalonia the Catalans have renounced you. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members and Members of the Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin voting, I will have a few words. The deputy and fourth secretary of the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, Don Adolfo Suárez Illana, deserves a farewell. In fact, this House deserves to fire a parliamentarian and a politician like Adolfo Suárez. Some of you have done so from the rostrum, consuming your time and using your freedom of expression to recognize a fellow member of the bench, even being from another political party. If I may, this president does it now. Education, exquisite treatment, the way to understand politics to create harmony and to generate coexistence, as well as its sense of institutionality are the elements of one's own style, of a style built for many years, which I would call the Suárez style. Mr. Suárez, dear Adolfo, you will allow me at that moment also to convey to you personally my gratitude, especially for having trusted me. It has been a gift to be able to share the government of this House with you. Thank you so much. [[Mr Suárez Illana addresses the president and gives herself a hug.- Prolonged applause, with the majority of honourable Members and Members standing.- Mr Suárez Illana takes his hand to the chest as a sign of gratitude.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u35	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Unique point. Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law transposing European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union, and reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorder and smuggling of dual-use weapons. Amendments to the entire alternative text. Amendment to the entire alternative text, tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 6 against, 313 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u36	It's rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 67 against, 186 abstentions, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u37	It's rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group to the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 156 against, 185.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u38	It's rejected. Amendment to the whole of the alternative text tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 9 against, 315 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u39	It's rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 54 against, 197 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-01-CD221201.u40	It's rejected. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was three and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
