ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the following amendments to the agenda: to include in the section of Thursday's opinion of committees on legislative initiatives a new item corresponding to the opinion of the Commission of the Draft Law on Sustainable Fisheries and Fisheries Research; to include, as the last item of the Thursday's session, the request for the plenary of the House to approve the final deliberation and vote of the Draft Law approving measures to strengthen the protection of energy consumers and to contribute to the reduction of natural gas consumption in implementation of the Plan + security for your energy, as well as measures concerning the remuneration of personnel for the public sector and the protection of potential agricultural workers affected by drought, arising from the Royal Decree Law 18/2022 of 18 October. [[+SE]] Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendments to the agenda were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u2	I should also like to inform you that the debate on agenda items 31, 32 and 33, concerning opinions of committees on legislative initiatives, will be moved to the sitting on Wednesday, following the opinion of the Draft Organic Law of the University System, which appears as item 30 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u3	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group, to amend Law 7/1985 of 2 April, regulator of the bases of the Local Regime, in order to modify the municipal standard in cases of occupation and illegal immigration. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Almost four million Spaniards have put us in this House to stop absolutely all the trophies carried out by the government that we are suffering, in all areas, both in the area that is going to occupy us in the debate now and in the area of the attack on the institutions that are so serious that we are living in the last few days. [[Applauds]] And I assure you that we will not stop until we give back the voice to the Spaniards, who belong to them. [[Applauds]] The subject of the debate that we are now beginning is the proposed law presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group for the amendment of Law 7/1985 of 2 April, Regulator of the Local Regime. This initiative is crucial to addressing one of the most important problems that our country is facing in recent years, which is well known to you and which is often denied to you, which is the problem of mass immigration. One of the circumstances that allows one of the open doors in this system of open borders is also the open door that exists in the civil neighbourhood system of some municipalities, and it is that in cases of occupation and illegal immigration there are some municipalities in which to register is too simple and in the end this constitutes a fraud to our public system and a fraud, in short, to our social service system. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate I would like us to address an issue that is often in your mouths and which, however, seems that most of you lack the basic meaning or the basic elements of the most elementary notion of what constitutes social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, social justice is not about ending hunger in the world, because it is impossible. Social justice is not to end hunger in the world, with general budgets of the State, the general budgets of the State of Spain, because it is impossible, and to say the opposite, it is nothing other than lying to the Spaniards, it is an act of hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, social justice is not bringing seven million Africans without resources to our country, because it is said by a ministry, because they say a number of economic powers that, in the face of Europe's demographic decline, we need slave and mass labour to cover precarious jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, social justice would not be this, because it is common sense; common sense which, although common, is unfortunately the least common sense in this House. It is common sense that if we bring seven million Africans without resources to our country in the coming years, we would not be reducing poverty, but we would increase it exactly by seven million people. [[Applauds]] But it is also a very elementary notion of social justice that purporting to bring seven million people without resources to our country is also an act of hypocrisy, when in Spain, and in the light of the latest data, there are 13 million people at risk of social exclusion and poverty. [[Applauds]] It is a very serious act of hypocrisy and it is absolutely contrary to social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, social justice would help these 13 million people at risk of poverty. Social justice would end the two and a half million people in severe poverty. Social justice would be to build the three and a half million official protection homes that are still needed in Spain, only to be on the average in the European countries around us. [[Applauds]] Social justice would be a real end to energy poverty. The other day I had the opportunity to visit, as we all often do in our political activity, a residential center with people with disabilities and highly dependent, in this intellectual case. We see large figures in the general budgets of the State, but when we go to small associations, when we go to small residences, we see, as in this particular centre, how social justice really is far from being achieved. It is a center that had difficulty paying the bills of light, recent bills of light that amounted to 8500 euros. It is a center that does social work in each of the municipalities of Spain, and if politicians are not to fix the lives of people who really need it, politicians do not serve at all. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you not realize that, not only these thirteen million people at risk of poverty or the two million people at risk of severe poverty or the small centres, as I have just told you, which exist in virtually all the municipalities of Spain, if they do not have their basic needs covered, we cannot afford to accommodate seven million people without resources from other countries? Don't you realize the enormous and gigantic hypocrisy that this is? A consultant, GIS, has recently carried out a study indicating that foreigners - which is well known to you - account for about 11.4% of the population and consume around 50% of public aid for poverty. That is, that half of the public aid in Spain we are not using for social justice, we are using it to open borders and harm the most vulnerable Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the standard, unfortunately, is the tool used for access to public aid in a fraudulent way and is also a tool that suits you, because at the end of the day it has a so-called effect and you can continue to talk about water to the international economic powers. Ladies and gentlemen, you live very well in your manuals of political theory; you live very well in your idealism; we tell you every day, but every day we check it with greater vehemence, live away from what the Spaniards feel and suffer in their neighborhoods. In your manuals, you come to say that hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people can come to integrate and work in a possible and magical multiculturalism, in which cultural origin is equal; and this is also a lie. If they paid less attention to their political theory manuals and more attention to what humble Spaniards suffered in their homes, they would realize. We have explained it a thousand times and we will do it again without getting tired, because for that they have put so many Spaniards here who suffer it day by day: immigration and crime are related; this is common sense and is elementary criminology. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a crime factor that is indeed cultural. There is an imported crime. There are forms of crime that are possible in many countries in our environment and that are not characteristic of our culture. But there is also an increase in common crime, which is also an elementary notion of criminology, because it is normal for common crime to increase when we bring massively people from places where there are forms of common crime, such as rapes, which occur 80 times more than in our indigenous societies. It's elementary criminology and it's common sense, and we'll say it every time we can. [[Applauds]] However, today I would like to dwell on one of the great losers in the mass immigration debate: women. There is a great difference between European civilization and other opposing cultures, and it is that for Christian civilization women have always been the soul of Europe. However, for other cultures women are the slave of man, and you are massively importing people from these cultures. If you import massively people from Nigeria, Malawi, Swaziland, Zimbabwe, Cameroon, from all these countries, you will see on our streets customs of these countries. In Spain we can already see female genital mutilation. According to a study by the Autonomous University of Barcelona, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics, in Spain there are 3652 girls at risk of female genital mutilation, thanks to their open border policies. In Spain we are also seeing girls at risk of forced marriages. There are other cultures that also have institutional figures such as polygamy, which are also tremendously unfair to women. There are also crimes of honour; we have all seen videos of absolutely brutal stoning in Nigeria; and this is a culture that we must not respect, that we must fight, because it is in our origins and it is in our nature to fight a barbarity such as a stoning or a forced marriage. [[Applauds]] There you also say many times that you are - how was it? - the granddaughters of the witches that we couldn't burn, or something like that say, right? Well, there are countries where women are really being burned for witchcraft. You're massively importing people from those countries here. [[Applauds]] In their manuals of political theory they also say that ocupation is a problem of the powerful, of the banks and of the investment funds; and, however, a large volume of occupation is due to another very different reality. Okupación is in the hands of mafias who take advantage of human suffering, who take advantage of poverty and who trade with people who do not have a roof, who do not have a shelter. You, ladies and gentlemen, dance the water to those mafias who turn buildings into drug and prostitution supermarkets, which destroy neighborhoods where before, better or worse, at least one could live. Ladies and gentlemen, living in a safe neighborhood shouldn't be a privilege for the rich. [[Applauds]] You have made it into that, you have made it a luxury within the reach of very few, and if you ever close your policy manuals...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u5	Your Honor, you must finish, please, your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u6	I'm done, Mr. President. If they ever close their policy manuals, stop doing the dirty work to the mafias and the powerful and go out on the street, they'll see we're right. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u7	Thank you. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Supporting once again any initiative aimed at pursuing the illegal occupation of housing, VOX's proposal attacks the collateral phenomenon of fraudulent access to public benefits by those who carry out house searches, as has always been called in the Penal Code. That someone joins the municipal standard allows him to participate in his citizenship status in the locality in question, in addition to being able to exercise his political rights. However, in recent years, certain administrations governed by which they have very little appreciation for private property, enshrined as a right by article 33 of our Constitution and also by article 17 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, have reached the height of their appreciation that the funds covered by taxpayers' taxes can be used to support the Okupas through programmes aimed at disadvantaged groups or those subjected to some kind of social exclusion. Such a circumstance is illegal and absolutely unjustified, because the public authorities have budgetary appropriations to deal with the housing problem without anyone being able to take justice by their hand and enter other people's residences for particular benefit or mafia extortion. I'm sure something so elementary will be understood by these open-door corporations, as Mrs. De Meer Méndez has rightly defined, if from good to first they find themselves one day occupied by trespassing criminals. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law has, in my opinion, a technical issue which can be corrected. Access to the standard can simply be done by entering the usual address of the person concerned and, in that case, it would be advisable to require that such usual address of the okupa be accompanied by the requirements for the registration of the immovable property referred to in article 16.2 (h) of the Law Regulating the Basis of the Local Regime. In this way, the inability to gain access to the pattern and the benefits it entails for these criminals, home invaders, would be further realized by giving them such a possibility if they do not believe where they usually reside and in what condition, which should be extended to the fair title accreditation in which they do so. He concluded by insisting that any proposal that seeks to tackle this undesirable phenomenon will merit my support, but we should focus the issue on the legal instruments in the hands of the authority to immediately evict the invaders, making them available to the courts as soon as possible to answer for their crimes and assume their logical consequences, which would be the same in any civilized nation. I will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u9	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u10	Thank you, President. The proposed law that brings us VOX responds to the extreme right's concern about octopus and undocumented migrants to access the pattern. You know that the standard is what guarantees access to housing, health care, education or public programs. So the simple translation is that VOX wants people who don't have papers and don't have access to a home to have neither a doctor nor a school. VOX proposals are evil, they want people to be first and second. They are vile proposals, you feed the war of the penultimate against the last systematically. They are infamous proposals, because it is the poor that bothers you. Look, you go to the website of the Ministry of Industry where you explain the assumptions of residence authorization for those people who make a significant investment in capital, that is, those foreigners who are not from countries of the European Union, but have money, these, to the ladies and gentlemen of VOX do not bother them that they are. Says the ministry: Those who invest a million euros in shares or shares of Spanish capital companies, those who invest a million euros in investment funds, those who buy real estate in Spain with an investment worth more than 500 000 euros. These VOX don't bother them, the rich are fine. You don't have a problem with migration in general, you have a problem with people who aren't white and people who aren't rich, that is, with blacks and the poor. You only defend the powerful, systemically, and fuel the war of the penultimate against the last with racism. There are some five hundred thousand people in the Spanish state who will not be able to vote in the next municipal elections, and you not only want to take away the vote, but you want to take away health and education. Let's do a translation exercise again. His proposals are racist. The problem of housing in the Spanish state exists mainly because of the role of investment funds, which you want to open the door to. The problem of lack of resources in the Spanish State is not because there are more or less people here or there, it is because the distribution of wealth and resources is very unequal. 1% of the population concentrates a quarter of the wealth of the Spanish State. You know this well, because most of you, who have not very Spanish surnames - I would say, although I will not defend Spanishness - are heirs and heirs of great fortunes, great fortunes coming from all sides of the world and you are the defenders of the rich. [[rumors.-Laughter]] The corporal. Your proposals are racist, because it was you who from this rostrum told Marlaska that not only had it been well to murder more than twenty people on the border, but, if it were for you, there would have been more hard hand. Safe neighborhoods, you know what they are? Neighborhoods where all people and neighborhoods have their own racist approaches to Nazi eugenics do not have their own. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u11	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u12	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing an initiative that proposes to modify the wording of the requirements that are mandatory to document for registration in the municipal register by understanding the promoter group that those relating to the domicile and identification of foreign persons are not well described in the legal order, uniquely in the Law Regulating the Basis of the Local Regime, and this deficiency, in their opinion, makes it possible and facilitates the phenomenon of okupa and illegal emigration. Ladies and gentlemen, as a preliminary point, our parliamentary group announces that it will not support the initiative by considering that the existing legal system does not contain any crack in the sense indicated by the parliamentary group that is the author of the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, as is generally known, every person living in Spain is obliged to register in the standard of the municipality in which he or she habitually resides, and the municipality has the corresponding obligation to register all persons living in the municipality in the public register where their neighbours are. This register of neighbours is called a municipal register and its data constitute proof of residence in the municipality and of the domicile of the neighbours, which is maintained for the time that they remain in it without any need for renewal, except for non-Community foreigners without authorization of permanent residence, who must renew the registration every two years and whose non-compliance is the cause of a declaration of expiry of the office of subscription by the corresponding municipality and without the procedure of hearing. For registration in the register, there are sheets or registration applications in each municipality that must be filled out by the persons resident in them and, however, this is not an automatic operation to ensure that the presentation completed by the applicant of the registration sheet with the data required therein is sufficient, but that the Administration must verify that all the data legally required are completed in a truthful manner, as provided for in Article 59.2 of the Population and Demarcation Regulations and the technical instructions to the municipalities on the management of the municipal register, requiring for this purpose a document accrediting the identity, family book and title that legitimizes the occupation of the housing or other similar documents, denying applications for registration when it does not comply with the veracity, even in an apparent way, of the requirements required by the legal order of the applicants. Since it could not otherwise be, the data, the content of the administrative acts issued by the public administrations, either ex officio or at the request of the person concerned... shall be in accordance with the provisions of the legal order and shall be determined and appropriate for the purposes of those provisions,' being void if they violate the legal order, as provided for in article 34 of the law on administrative procedure in development, precisely article 103.1 of the Constitution, which provides that the public administration acts subject to the law and the law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty of the local government to verify the veracity of the data required of the applicants for registration, which is not exhausted at the initial time of registration, but which hangs on the administration, which is not exempt from acting on its own initiative to produce the discharge in the register if it considers that the requirements required after hearing the person concerned or without it for the cases of non-Community foreigners without authorization of permanent residence, as provided for in Article 72 of the Demarcation and Plant Regulation, are not met. In short, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finalizing - the legal order relating to the standard, whose group rule is the Law Regulating the Basis of the Local Regime, provides that the required data on the applicant's domicile requires that the applicant at least apparently certify the title legitimizing the occupation of the housing or other similar documents, and for those persons who do not have a domicile and reside in the municipality, registration in the standard can only be made after having made the fact known to the social services. In addition, the local government must verify the veracity of all these requirements. For citizens of Member States of the Union, of the European Economic Area or of States with an international convention, it is required that applicants provide either residence cards, or identity document, or passport, or alien identification number, or passport number together - very important - with the corresponding visa for nationals of States other than the former. A document which, as I told you, the local government must demand and verify its veracity, in accordance with Article 16 of the Law Regulating the Basis of Local Regime, and, therefore, we do not consider that its amendment is appropriate in the sense and purpose proposed by the initiative discussed. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u13	Thank you very much, Your Honor. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u14	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Listening to Mrs De Meer, it seems that this proposal for a law did not provide for any correction of the pattern in cases of illegal occupation, but only in cases of immigration. What really interests us most about this proposal for a law is that first part of the fact that the standard does not consolidate the situations of illegal possession arising from the assumption of occupation. Because, of course, it is true that we repeatedly go out to this rostrum to talk about the cases of occupation and it seems that we are getting used to talking about this. And we are also told things like, well, it's not one of our country's big concerns. Man, for those who are octopusing his house I already tell you that it is one of the great concerns, when it also has to pay the supplies and it has to continue paying the mortgage, and if it does not, it turns out that the culprit is him and can be convicted for the crime of coercion. We are told many things about this illegal occupation, that if we are agents of Securitas Direct, that if there are the evil banks that stay with the houses and that there are many vacant houses. In Spain, I do not know if they know it, the right to private property and inheritance is recognized, and it is equally important that private property is owned by large foremen, small foremen, natural persons or legal persons, and that vulnerable groups must also be effectively protected. But our Constitution clearly states that the social function of property rights will be determined in accordance with the laws, that no one may be deprived of his property and rights but for justified reasons of public utility or social interest by means of corresponding compensation and in accordance with the laws. This is the first thing about liberalism. One can do whatever he wants in the exercise of his freedom, unless his freedom clashes with the freedom of others, and then we find that the law precisely regulates the scope of each one's freedom. This was invented many years ago, but there are groups here that seem to have not yet learned it and that understand that each one can arbitrarily do what he considers his right, can remove the possession of the estates to whom he belongs; because they are groups such as, for example, We can, that understand that the Constitution is made up of only one article, the 47, the right to decent and adequate housing. The rest of us don't read them. Article 33, that of private property and inheritance, we go through it, because the only thing that matters is the right to decent and adequate housing. Therefore, at this point the VOX initiative is very correct. We too take this initiative in our comprehensive plan to defend coexistence in the area of illegal occupation. And it is very reasonable that article 72 of the Regulations on Population and Territorial Demarcation of Local Entities be corrected, because it makes no sense for an illegal situation to be consolidated in the municipal standard. How a legal tool can consolidate what may become a crime and, in any case, may be an illegal situation. For the council will have to have the means at its disposal to check whether the situation that reflects an administrative registry is legal or illegal, and this deducting the effects that the presumption, as has also been said by Mr. Legarda, may have on registration in the property registry, on whether it is living there or on the rights that such registration may have with it. But it is a crime or it can be a crime or, as a matter of fact, it is an illegal situation, how it will generate rights protected by the legal system. We will, in short, have to better protect the right to property and not protect the person who is in a situation of illegality, because it seems that in our legal system what we do is to protect the offender more than the legitimate owner, the owner. In Barcelona the Okupas call them social activists, they are not even criminals. What they do is beautify the neighborhood and work for the community, when sometimes we just find that what they do is sell or rent octopus houses to vulnerable groups. Secondly, what we are not going to buy in any way, gentlemen of VOX, is that we have to rectify the cadastre so that there are no illegal immigrants - you say -. Look, in Spain there are no illegal people, there may be people in irregular administrative situations, but they are not called illegal, they are called irregular and they are in a situation of marginality. You are trying to rectify the regulation of the municipal standard so that immigrants in an irregular situation cannot access social services, when what we have to do is protect them and establish the corresponding social inclusion routes, which do not remain in a marginal situation. Mrs De Meer, the truth is that opening the borders for us to be invaded by Africans is very much your party, but what happens, that with the people who are here in an irregular situation of marginality, who have, like all residents, the right to decent and adequate housing, what we have to do is to marginalize them even more? It is a mistake not to recognize the rights of Spanish residents, regardless of their administrative situation. That is, this is nothing but a patch in relation to the municipal standard, because what needs to be done is to establish an integral solution, we need to establish methods of rapid recovery of possession by the owner. The average recovery is currently in 18 months. Of course, vulnerable groups must be protected and the right to decent and adequate housing must be recognized, but the right of the owner must also be recognized to punish the crimes of illegal occupation with higher penalties, through prompt prosecution; that possession can be recovered in a summary and urgent manner; that the State security forces and forces are given more competence to be able to call for eviction; greater legal certainty; protection of vulnerable groups; recognition that minimum living income has to reach these vulnerable groups; and the establishment of second-hand mechanisms with regard to those in insolvency. Everything can be done, it can be protected, and vulnerable groups can be protected. That's called being centered, that's called being liberal and progressive. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u15	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, we are in front of a proposal to cut rights; a proposal that also focuses on the most vulnerable, immigrants and people without housing solutions. This is, unfortunately, a specialty of the ultra right and the ultra right, of that inhuman and racist fascism which relates to coldness and infamous immigration and crime; of that ultra right and that ultra right engaged in a process of involution in rights and democracy, as we are seeing these days from the appeal on sedition or from the appeal on the amendment of the Constitutional Court, from which we have that serious decision of last night of the Constitutional Court which must be described as a genuine soft judicial coup, which violates the division of powers, which limits the independence of the Legislature and which constitutes a serious attack on basic democratic principles. [[rumors]] As Democrats we strongly reject that decision of the Constitutional Court, also adopted with members with an expired mandate who resolve themselves. [[Rumors]] Moreover, in our view, all democratic forces must act with the utmost unity to stop the coup of the fascist ultra-right and the Constitutional Court... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u17	Your Honor, one second, please. I have already commented to you on some occasion that you have been able to say what you wanted for a prudent time, but it has been almost a third of your time talking about something other than what we have been talking about. In particular, we are talking about the proposed law to modify the municipal standard. I ask you - in accordance with Article 102 - to stick to the matter and please continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u18	If in this rostrum you can't...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u19	It can be.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u20	... I don't know what to say. In any case, I would like to recommend to the Socialist Party that it does not worry so much about gagging this Parliament, that the Constitutional Court is already in charge of this. [[Rumors]] He said that we must stop, and also to that Popular Party of Feijóo, which aims at the coup strategy, unable to assure, to assume that they do not govern and that decisions that they do not like can come forward. In everything...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u21	Thank you very much, Your Honor, your time is up. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala asked for the floor]] Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u22	Mr President, in the specific remarks that have been made, the VOX Parliamentary Group has been called directly fascist; it has been expressed directly - referring to the VOX Parliamentary Group - that they are part of the far right; it has been associated with national socialist ideas, and a number of statements have been made that either must be withdrawn and limited or that any kind of statement must be effectively allowed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u23	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I understand that there has been no direct reference and therefore we continue. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u24	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I no longer know whether we should even ask or thank or greet the members of the Constitutional Court who allow us to hold this debate today. But what is true is that the great question about the Constitutional Court is the homogeneity of the texts of the amendments, and Mrs De Meer here, already entering the question before us, has taken the opportunity, under the title of ocupation and illegal immigration, to enter into the visit she made to a disability centre, in the bill of light, in the hunger in the world, that women are cared for - you really believe that women are cared for, as if they were goods? Do you think this is a correct expression: do women care, as if they were goods?-, polygamy, genital mutilation; even this concept of cultural crime, which I do not know if we have to equate it to regional dances or what approach they have. The truth is that if this had any criterion of homogeneity in relation to the proposition being put forward, let God come down and see it, as popular culture says. Beyond this digression across all these VOX worlds, if we enter into the content of the proposal already starts by mixing the issue of ocupation and illegal immigration, which has repeatedly been told that it is not called illegal immigration but irregular immigration. Even in some later proposition this has been corrected by you, but from time to time I suppose that - pulling also from the popular culture - the goat throws to the mountain and they continue to go the expression of illegal immigration. And these two issues, which are undoubtedly problems that need to be addressed and which need to be addressed, have solutions but are separate. I mean, there is one issue, one problem that we have pointed out many times, which is the issue of illegal occupation. And in this sense we have proposed measures: to amend the Criminal Prosecution Act, to amend the Local Regime Basics Act, to amend the Horizontal Property Act, some measures and instruments that could improve the fight against octopus. And in another area, there is the issue of irregular immigration, for which there are also many measures and paths to take, such as recruitment at source, ensuring humanitarian corridors, legal certainty in so many rooting or asylum procedures that arise, or the integration of these people with duties and rights, with both. In this regard, I would like to point out that there are ways to resolve the issue of opt-out and ways to resolve the issue of immigration. Bringing them together as if it were a single mix, as if it were a single joint problem, is nothing but the result of a political will to continue hurling at a wound that leads to no solution in terms of the underlying problem. In this sense, we understand that the proposal, which is to amend the Law Regulating the Basis of the Local Regime, does not make any sense, cannot have our support, and even less so when this initiative has been used to extract the collection of VOX resources to make its speeches totally discriminatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u25	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u26	Thank you, President. The far right tells us to close our political theory manual, but listening to them seems to be their political theory manual is the Mein Kampf. [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, between yesterday and today the ultras, the extreme right, has registered or defended in this house almost ten initiatives of pure hatred against migrants, and today the extreme right speaks of housing, speaks of poor people when every day it is voting against poor people, against access to housing. I am now addressing migrants directly, who may be listening to me or seeing me right now: The pattern is a right. Friend, migrant friend, you can't deny us the pattern. Registration is your right, even if you do not have papers, even if you do not have residence; it is your right, migrant person. And, at the same time, the city council has a legal obligation to register you, dear migrant person, even if you don't have papers. If you reside in the municipality and request it, the municipality has to register you, regardless of your nationality, migrant person, your legal status, the title for which you occupy a dwelling, or your administrative situation, or the legal situation of the dwelling, or the physical situation of the dwelling. It's a right. The right to be registered is the gateway to another set of rights and, therefore, its violation may involve the violation of other associated rights, including constitutional rights, and subject to the protection of the remedy of amparo before the Constitutional Court, fundamental rights such as the right to vote, to be a candidate in elections, to participate in public affairs, to initiate a popular consultation, such as the ILP Regularization Ya, which is coming here tomorrow to Madrid. [[Applauds]] Yes, the popular legislative initiative to regularize the administrative situation of more than 500,000 people, which has achieved almost 700,000 signatures, will be here tomorrow. As I said, it is the gateway to the right to education, to health, to social services, to employment, but also to the rights of foreigners, such as the right to family reunification, to regularization, to residence permits, etc. The pattern is a right. There are still bureaucratic obstacles that apply many municipalities throughout Spain in the registration, in violation of the current regulations on access to the standard. The Forum de Sindicas y Sindicos, Defensores e Defensores Locales de Catalunya says that preventing or putting obstacles to the registration of persons in the municipality where they reside is not only to hinder the exercise of rights and obligations, but also to hinder fundamental rights, especially of vulnerable groups. Therefore, an interpretation and application is required for registration legislation, especially in those areas where there is a margin of valuation in municipal hands, guided or also bounded by various principles of law. I have several here, but I don't have time to say them. No political instruction addressed to the Administration, formally or informally, can use the standard for purposes other than those established in the legal system, such as reacting against occupants of floors, houses, etc., or reducing the registration of foreign persons. That's what the rules say. Having said that, my group says the following, among other things. First, that all municipalities should simply register all immigrant neighbors, and it is not for the municipalities to make any check on the legality of their residence. Secondly, that the municipalities be flexible with the accreditation of the identity of the person, that they accept photocopy of the passport when they do not have it in force, that they accept the protection of asylum applications as identification of asylum-seekers and unaccompanied minors and that they register all persons who do not have a rental contract or are occupying infra-vivienda; people who have no place to live-settlements, caravans, caves, parks, etc. - regardless of their legal or sanitary conditions, since the municipalities do not have competence to judge property issues about housing. Allow the registration without fixed address, using the form of the fictitious domicile, as reflected in the resolution of 30 January 2015 of the presidency of the National Institute of Statistics and of the Directorate General for the Coordination of Competences with the Autonomous Communities and Local Entities on technical instructions to the municipalities on the management of municipal standards and thus comply with the regulations in force mentioned above by myself. That the registration without permanent domicile has the same recognition and value, as well as the same duration as the rest of the registrations. That residence check visits - very important - be carried out by an officer without uniform, thus avoiding discriminatory and intimidating treatment. [[Rumors]] That's what Melilla is doing now and it's very important that it doesn't happen. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, there is no greater okupa and delinquent than the one who occupied Zarzuela for forty years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u27	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wanted to thank Maria Dantas for the excellent explanation she has previously made, introducing some legal elements that are important to be known and that, in addition, put on the table the non-compliance with the current legality that from many local administrations are carried out in order to be able to protect situations of social exclusion that are openly illegal and that violate fundamental rights of many people. I would like this to serve the democratic forces to think a little bit, I think it would help us a lot. These things could help us think, beyond morning magazines, and start thinking a little bit more about what our international human rights commitments are or what the pandemic has been about and what we have learned from all this. Because the proposal that is brought to us, in the end what does it mean? Deny the doctor to the sick? It's a good date to be able to do it. What a great measure to be able not to have the possibility of the whole population of our country being part of the National Health System! What a great conquest! Imagine how good it would have been that hundreds of thousands of people had not been in the National Health System during the pandemic, who had no access to public health. Who wins with that? Does anyone win with that? Many people have been expelled for hundreds of thousands of illegal - illegal - mortgage executions, which have been determined as illegal mortgage executions by the Court of Justice of the European Union because they are contrary to Community law; hundreds of thousands of people who have not been compensated for the violation of their fundamental rights and who have been deprived of the right to property, Mr Bal - hundreds of thousands of families - by financial institutions and by a judicial system that refused to comply with the law in order to promote the interests of financial institutions. Do we really want to know how many people are in residential exclusion in this country? Are we not interested in knowing how many empty and abandoned homes there are in our country, the result of the real estate crisis? Aren't we interested? Are we not interested in being able to address the phenomenon of infra-housing? Aren't we interested in learning from our history? How did we make our cities? How was Madrid built? How was Barcelona built? How was Valencia built? How was Seville built? What was the response given with the arrival of democracy, precisely, to situations of residential exclusion in the main cities of the country and situations of sub-holidays? Were they denied registration? Or was registration a useful tool in favour of social inclusion and in favour, precisely, of rehousing the excluded population? This same week there has been a new resolution by the United Nations committee saying that the Madrid Community regulation, which excludes people who have no title in the use of housing, runs counter to the international covenants on human rights. I know that human rights for some political forces are globalist devils, but not for democratic forces; democratic forces believe that this must inform the whole legal system. That is why it is very important that democratic forces do not buy the discourse of the extreme right; that is why the popular legislative initiative for the regularization of migrants in our country is so important, because they are our neighbours and our neighbours. [[Applauds]] Because the problem is that there are those who want to have no rights to exploit them with impunity, as many entrepreneurs do, precisely by taking advantage of the absence of rights of the migrant population in our country. We and we have commitments to what model of society we want to look to the future, and we are clear what it is. We believe in article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We would not have intended to send the child Jesus to Desocupa on the night of December 24. We would have thought that it was necessary to have decent housing and that it was an obligation of society as a whole to guarantee the right to decent housing for the whole population. [[Applauds]] But it's normal, first they go after immigrants, then it's the okupas, then the unionists, then who else? Who's behind the list? Think, there are 26 million left, they said it; they have a homophobic project, they have the majority of the country left. And, unfortunately, it is not only the most extreme force, but this proposal to exclude many people from the standard also has the supposedly majority opposition party. They have also done so by attacking the central pillars of a democratic society, which is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the instruments that develop it. We owe it to our people, to all our people, to try to achieve a democratic society and to debate here in order to try that people have the right to have decent living conditions, to have all the powers of the state-insist, all the powers of the state- emanate from the people. Not one can put itself above popular sovereignty, and those who collide in institutions, without democratic legitimacy and with their expired mandate and who try to limit the ability of the Legislature to push laws, must find a united response from all democratic forces to homophobes, to those who deny the ability of the people to self-governance. [[Rumors]] And yes, we defend ourselves legally against the abuses, no doubt, but at the same time all the determination to tell those who have the expired mandate that we will legislate to evict them from where they are, because it does not belong to them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u29	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u30	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, everyone. Today we are dealing with a proposal for a law that talks about the right to registration of irregular immigrants and of okupas; for we are going to talk about rights. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago a bill from the People's Parliamentary Group was being debated in this House to combat housing octopus, and it did not go ahead. And so it happened because the groups that support the Government and its partners have chosen to decide that seizing a home that is not yours is legal. And that's very strong, it's very strong for many people. But it turns out that for this government it is absolutely normal. For this Government it is normal to instigate okupar, it is normal for a retired owner who supplements his pension with a rent to be deprived of that right. For this Government it is normal for the same retiree to have to pay for the light, water and all the expenses of the okupa, while the latter enjoys the property. For this Government, it is normal for a community of owners to suffer not only from the theft of housing, but also from destruction in the common areas, from annoyance, from criminal acts, from the sale of drugs; that is normal. [[Applauds]] And this is now called the right to housing, it's called housing policy. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, this is not normal. This is a succession of crimes. This is an attack on our rule of law, the same attack that they perpetrated, by denying the rights of all of us, by validating through the back door the crime of embezzlement, the crime of sedition and the assault on the Constitutional Court; it is the same. [[Applauds]] And it is the same because this Government has decided that private property, which is also reflected as a constitutional right, is worthless; because this Government has decided that among its housing responsibilities is to incite the Okupar and shield the Okupas, while homeowners have to assume one hundred percent of that housing policy that the Government does not do. But, ladies and gentlemen, you know that we will continue to work against this abuse of our rights in line with this proposal of the People's Party, because all these are criminal attitudes, and we, the People's Party, have very clear measures. First of all, okupar is a crime, okupar is stealing, and we don't get tired of saying it; it's taking possession of something that's not yours and that, as such, should be treated. An okupa is evicted, it is not an eviction. Okupar is not the quick way to get a home paid for by everyone, which is clear. [[Applauds]] The other day I was setting the example of the car. But what would you think if, as in public health, which is paid with everyone's taxes, one citizen will be forced to pay for another's health? It is not the same; it is worse, because in the property of the house are your savings and also those of your children, the hope of your future and the hope of your family. And then the eviction in 24 hours, on the street! Owner communities must be legitimized so that they can exercise the action of denunciation and taxes, IBI and property must be returned for the duration of the occupation. That's it! The owner cannot be allowed to run at all costs. And there is a need to improve legal protection against the actions of the mafias, prohibit registration and consider registration invalid if there is no enabling title, so that an okupa cannot enjoy the same rights as a person who has invested the savings of a lifetime in a property. [[Applauds]] And we are glad that other political groups are also waging this battle, in this case through this bill, which deals with the registration of the okupas and irregular immigrants. We are going to vote in favour of this consideration, although we do not think it is enough. This bill comes to be a piece of our comprehensive law against octopus, which is, in fact, a set of measures that seek to solve all the collateral problems that occur alongside this crime. This VOX initiative could say that, at least, it is a patch, a non-contradictory patch, because the contradictory patch is that of the PSOE, the amendment they put into that law of procedural efficiency. The maximum incoherence of the PSOE is to propose a precautionary measure in case of usurpation and break-in for eviction in forty-eight hours. I ask you how you eat that with regard to the protection of the okupas that you have made since Royal Decree Law 1/2021, where it legalizes, de facto, the okupation, prohibiting eviction in certain circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, interim measures of eviction cannot be called for and, on the other hand, the measures provided for in Royal Decree Law 1/2021 and all these successive amendments, and now until May 2024, how Bildu is demanding them, because they are not only calling for the suspension of evictions, they are also calling for the extension with respect to the Okupas, the scammers, on crimes of usurpation and of which, in view of this situation of protection that the Government is giving them, they decide not to pay. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, they are supporting the government, they are supporting octopus, they are supporting a crime. And the case is that we are with you in the urgency of precautionary measures, because this is required by the more than forty cases of daily occupations, in respect of which eviction is the priority, because there are a lot of collateral situations that need to be resolved. But to solve this problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not to establish a forty-eight hour precautionary measure, as the PSOE does, or to bring loose measures, as VOX does. A comprehensive solution to this problem must be given, the crimes must be called by their name and, above all, the main objective must be the protection of private property and the full awareness that this is not a housing policy and that our rule of law must be safeguarded. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u31	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Araujo Morales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u32	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs De Meer, you have come up to this rostrum and today you have thrown up a speech of hatred, racist and xenophobic, and you have not been able to explain even what the proposed amendment of the law you bring. If it is not because Mr Legarda, almost in a master class, has explained to us what this proposal consists of, we would not have known. And, Mrs. Zurita Exposito, it's you who didn't find out. It is that this has nothing to do with octopus, it is that the proposal that brings VOX to this Congress, to this House, has nothing to do with octopus, it has to do with racism and xenophobia, it has to do with being next to those who defend fundamental rights. Who is going to give lessons, Popular Party and VOX, that violated the registration in the cases of Javier Maroto or the forgotten Macarena Olona as they wished? [[Applauds]] Are you going to give those lessons? Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, of course by announcing your vote in favour along with the far right you will have to give your mayors many explanations when they have to tell them that they wanted to change the competences they had so far. Mrs De Meer, obviously you don't mind bringing in the Local Regulator's Law of Basis of Regime than an amendment to the Penal Code; the question is to come here and, as I say, let go of your hate speech. But I had noted the question: Do you really know what a pattern is? Of course, with your intervention you have made it clear to me. I ask because, reading his proposal, he proves he has no idea. Every person who lives in Spain is obliged to register in the standard of the municipality in which he or she usually resides, and who lives in several must only register in which he or she lives longer at the end of the year. Thus, the status of neighbour is acquired at the same time as its registration in the municipal standard. For everyone to understand me - of course, those who have had some responsibility at the head of a town hall have it clear - the pattern is the fixed photo we make to those who are living in our municipality at that time. And who's competent to take that picture? The power to take such a photo, of the formation, maintenance, revision and custody of the municipal standard is vested in the municipality, in accordance with the law of the State. But it is also that the municipalities are obliged to keep them up to date so that they are as faithful as possible to the reality of the municipality. So far I think you've understood, haven't you, Mrs. De Meer? We're on. You propose to change the rules regarding the cases of okupation and immigration, because, according to you - I read literally - 'because of the simple fact of being registered in a municipality, you can access a considerable number of social services'. You do not want to modify the pattern, you want to create a kind of blacklist where we have identified those who, in your opinion, come to take away ours, which, they say, are especially harmful in terms of safety and labour relations. [[applause]] And, of course, of course, you have to have a census of them, not that they're going to move and we're not going to find out. Why are we going to tell the truth, right, ladies and gentlemen of VOX? Why are we going to tell you that the pattern does not represent a certificate of entitlement? Why are we going to count that the municipalities ask for the necessary documentation to prove the status of neighbourhood? Why are we going to count that you usually ask for title to property or existing lease of housing for residential use, accompanied by the last receipt of rent? Why are we going to tell them they're asking for electricity and water receipts? Why are we going to say that the city council also has the power to check all this data, making a report by the local police? Why are we going to explain that, as far as foreigners residing in Spain are concerned, they are asked for their identification number to be entered, or, failing that, the passport issued by the authorities of the country of origin? I mean, they're asked for NIE, and if they don't, passport number. And the objective of requiring this documentation is exclusively that the identification data be the correct, regardless of the legal situation of the foreigner in Spain. If not, tell the mayors and mayors of all Spain you and the lady of the People's Party that they will now be forced to carry out a check on the legality or illegality of the residence of their neighbours, for which, in addition to being illegal, tell me in what regulations it is established that it is the competence of the mayors or mayors of Spain. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and VOX, do you not realize the ridiculousness they make in presenting these kinds of initiatives and that their lies are also easily demonstrable? You say in this proposal that being registered allows you access to a considerable number of aids. I will give you just one example, one of the most recently processed, the vital minimum income, with respect to what is laid down in Article 7 - I read textually - that one of the requirements is to have legal and effective residence in Spain and to have it continuously and uninterruptedly for at least one year immediately prior to the date of issue.' And this same requirement applies to the single aid of two hundred euros to vulnerable people and to the young bonus, with the corresponding exceptions. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, how long are you going to go on with your lies? Being a foreigner in Spain - it has already been said by some of those who have preceded me in speaking - is not a criminal situation, it is an irregular administrative situation. If we had to make a census of those who respect institutions, those who do not insult women, those who protect the most vulnerable, those who work for the image of Spain abroad, those who approve aid for entrepreneurs, self-employed people, young people or vulnerable families, if we had to do so, of course, there would be none of you in that census. [[Applauds]] But socialists work to integrate, not expel; to regulate, not punish; to respect institutions and, of course, not to criminalize migrants. Migrant Day was celebrated this weekend. About 281 million people have emigrated for political reasons. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, illegal immigration or the phenomenon of octopus are not resolved by changing the municipal standard. But, of course, there is no deafer than the one who does not want to hear. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u33	Thank you very much. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala asked for the floor]] Yes, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u34	By Article 71.1, for certain allegations made against this parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u35	Your Honor, please tell me exactly which one you're referring to.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u36	The Member of the Republican Left has said that the political guide of the VOX Parliamentary Group is the Mein Kampf, and has been...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u37	Your Honor, I understand what you're talking about. If I may say yes to football, I have gone to the VAR and, checking exactly what Mrs Carvalho Danta has said, which I have before me, she makes no direct reference to you, to any parliamentary group or to any member of the House. Therefore, we continue the session. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That's right, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u38	There is another reference by another parliamentary group. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has expressly said far right about VOX.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u39	Let's continue, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. I insist, there is no reference to any group in the House or any member of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u40	The Socialist Group has said that VOX is an extreme right, Mr President, there is a direct reference.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u41	Your Honor, please sit down. You don't have the floor. [[Protests]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on Violence in the Health Environment. [[File number 122/00211]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u42	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on violence in the health field. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u43	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to express my first words of gratitude, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, to a representative of the health workers who accompany us today in the rostrum for their efforts, their daily work and their support and contributions to this initiative that we are presenting today. [[Applauds]] Health professionals are the main asset of the National Health System, but, despite this, they are a group that is affected by attacks of a different nature in the exercise of professional activity. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about attacks in health centres, unfortunately, too often, of verbal and physical violence against health or administrative personnel who carry out their duties professionally. Aggressions, in addition to being a problem of violence itself, lead to a deterioration of the relationship of trust between the healthcare professional and the patient and have a serious impact on the health and quality of life of the injured professional. Behind the violence against health personnel there are various elements that can precipitate their appearance, which favor situations of conflict in personal communication between the professional and the patient, but also pressure, lack of resources and care overload. The World Health Organization defines workplace violence as all incidents in which the person is subjected to ill-treatment, threats or attacks in circumstances related to his or her work, with the implication that his or her safety, well-being and health are explicitly or implicitly threatened. In 1998, the International Labour Organization concluded in its report, based on a comprehensive study on violence at work, that the risk of health professionals being assaulted during the performance of their duties was very high, compared to other areas of work. At European level, a number of decisions and directives have been published in order to raise the level of protection of workers' safety and health. At the State level, there is the Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 March, amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, which amended article 550, extending the object of protected officials as public authorities to health-care workers. From the Ministry of the Interior, through the Secretariat of State for Security, Instruction 3/2017 was prepared on police measures to be taken in the face of attacks on health professionals, creating the figure of the territorial health police interlocutor. And it is from the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, of 23 October, that the consolidated text of the Act on the Status of Workers is approved. That is why we propose this bill, with the main aim of regulating the minimum and basic measures to be implemented by the employer in the workplace in order to ensure the safety and health of the health personnel at their service and to prevent and avoid the risk of harm caused by acts of violence inflicted by third persons. This is an initiative that is in line with the needs of health professionals and from the school councils of the different health professions and professional trade unions. This is the case with the Observatory against Aggressions of the General Council of Official Colleges of Physicians or the National Observatory of Aggressions of the General Council of Nursing. It is an initiative that starts from facts such as that in 2021 10170 assaults were registered to professionals in the National Health System, which involved 15.71 reports of assaults per thousand professionals, according to data from the report on assaults to professionals in the National Health System of that year, which the Ministry of Health released last June, and an increase of 1638 assaults compared to 2020. Of the assaulted persons, 77% are women between the ages of thirty-five and fifty-five, and mainly among medical and administrative personnel, also increasing their number in other health professions. 85 per cent of the attacks reported by the professionals of the National Health System correspond, for the most part, to attacks of a non-physical nature, including insults and threats, and, although physical attacks represent a lower percentage in absolute terms, they correspond to 1483 violent acts of a physical nature during the year 2021, which require special attention, and we even note that aggressions are increasing as we know the data for this year 2022. For example, in my land, Zamora, it is observed that aggressions evolve upwards, from 32 to 42 between 2021 and 2022, and there are a total of 614 workers assaulted in the SACYL, compared to 444 in 2021. Meanwhile, the Government is entertained on issues far from those that offer professional solutions, such as addressing the shortage of medical professionals, specialists, nurses and others, the development of specialties or the lack of human resources planning. It is a government away from the solutions for primary care, in the absence of specialists, family and community doctors, as well as nurses, who require short- and medium-term measures, with a minister who does not attend to the request of the councillors for an extraordinary plenary of the interterritorial council so that relevant agreements can be reached to address the short- and medium-term problem; a government away from developing the measures agreed within the interterritorial council itself in 2018, such as the review of the accreditation units of centres and teaching units in the specialties of family medicine and pediatrics in primary care or measures to encourage the provision of hard-to-cover places. It is four years in breach of this 2018 agreement by four ministers who have passed through the Ministry of Health at this time. It is a government that does not respond to the conclusions of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction and does not take into account the motions for resolutions adopted in the debate on the state of the nation in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing this initiative on violence in the health field, within the many problems that the National Health System has, but we could talk about waiting lists, access to therapeutic innovations, numbers of deaths due to external causes in 2021 that we knew yesterday, with an unstoppable rise of those killed by suicide - ladies and gentlemen, more than four thousand people -, the inequity in access or the government's explanations about the COVID vaccines that have been bought and expired. We are talking about 14 million, ladies and gentlemen, not one or two, and the government would have to explain. These are problems that Minister Darias will leave unsolved, for her candidacy for the mayor of Las Palmas. We are faced with one more case of repeated use of the Ministry of Health as an electoral platform. This is what the Ministry of Health represents for the Government of this country. Aggressions are one of the problems faced by health professionals, in addition to the lack of staff in all areas. And, ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with me that if we do not take care of our professionals, the National Health System will weaken even further and lose part of its more than recognized effectiveness. As we all know, the vast majority of health professionals, as well as citizens, respect rights and assume duties, in an area of mutual formality, trust and respect for our health system, although there are cases where this is not the case. The People's Party and this parliamentary group have been working for years to curb aggression. This bill is the development of other measures, such as those adopted in our last phase of government. This is the case of the recognition of health professionals as authority in 2014, the reform of the Criminal Code to consider attacks in 2015, the creation of the figure of the police interlocutor in 2017 or the Instruction 3/2017, of the Secretariat of State of Security, on police measures to be taken in the face of attacks on health professionals, measures that help but are not sufficient, as the data presented by the Ministry of Health or the observatories of the professional councils show, and they support the presentation of this parliamentary initiative. In the opinion of the People's Parliamentary Group, this initiative will provide a specific regulatory framework to protect health professionals, in such a way that it offers and strengthens their safety throughout the National Health System under Article 40.2 of the Spanish Constitution, this great Magna Charter of all Spaniards that we defend in the People's Parliamentary Group permanently. I ask for support from all parliamentary groups, because voting against the consideration of this bill would be voting against protecting those who are looking after our health, those who have given their lives to preserve ours in times of COVID. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velasco. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undoubtedly, the bill put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group is useful in trying to tackle the growing and disturbing phenomenon of aggression against health professionals. In fact, on this specific type of violence affecting doctors, nurses, auxiliaries and, ultimately, workers in the field of health care, a day has already been held every 12 March in Europe, as a wake-up call, to highlight intolerance in the face of physical and verbal attacks on health care workers and to raise awareness of the need to prevent them. The victims are, by the way, mostly women, as well as mostly women, who make up the majority of the staff in the health-care centres. Very solvent reports and statistics accredit and reveal the increase in violent acts against health professionals, but it is also a reality that, for different reasons, not everything is denounced and there is still a certain resistance to communicating aggression or even to diminishing its importance. It should be noted in this regard that in those autonomous communities where adequate training or preventive mechanisms have been provided, including plans and guides to guide staff, there has been a significant increase in the number of complaints, which has highlighted the increase in conflict situations in the area of health. I mean, not only do the aggressions not stop, but they go a little further. We are talking about vocational professions, which, unfortunately, are increasingly and more prone to suffer from the burn-out, squeezing worker syndrome, which is penalized by voluntary access to early retirement despite working under very risky professional conditions, and now has to be armed with personal value to deal with the spread of misconduct by users, family members and companions, which has been exacerbated by the pandemic, as pointed out by professional colleges, trade unions and organisations representing the sector. It should be stressed once again that workers in the different health services present a much higher degree of risk than other areas of work. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to stress and refer to the various studies and surveys which show the magnitude of this problem, of which the worrying data persist. More than 10,000 attacks were recorded last year, 2021, which represented a significant increase over the previous year, the beginning of the COVID pandemic, in which 8500 attacks on health-care workers were recorded, which were mostly threats and insults, but also physical in nature, justifying the implementation of measures, plans and protocols for the care and protection of workers, including coordination with the National Police Corps and the strengthening of surveillance in health centres and hospitals. Look where you are looking, the study and analysis working group of aggressions to the professionals of the National Health System, created in 2018 to adopt effective and efficient prevention measures, is not giving the desired results. The initiative defended by the MEP Velasco Morillo goes far beyond the insufficient measures that have been taken in Spain. It is essential to overcome the policy of hot cloths and to tackle an alarming problem from the legislation. Therefore, a new legislative impetus is needed in order to combat this vicious and aggressive trend against health care workers, as described in this parliamentary initiative. And it is not possible to parapet in the daily conduct of millions of consultations and attentions in a climate of total normality between users and professionals, because, recognizing the complexity of this matter, the different measures implemented so far have been of low effectiveness and are insufficient, as is also insufficient legislation on the prevention of occupational risks or as are the Community directives themselves for the promotion of the safety and health of workers. In addition, the amendment made seven and a half years ago to article 550 of the Criminal Code, being appropriate and useful in considering acts of attack against teaching or health officials who are in the exercise of their duties or on the occasion of their duties, requires new administrative actions in line with this proposed law. Here and now it is a matter of deepening without delay in a specific regulatory framework that provides greater protection and strengthens safety around health professionals, both those working in the public and private sectors. Finally, Mr President, in favour of this and other measures that enhance and support the safety and prevention of occupational risks in the crucial role of health, he concludes by reiterating the very serious problem we have in Spain in the face of the colossal lack of professionals, especially medicine and nursing. Our country needs more doctors and also more nurses. In the part that concerns the Congress of Deputies, it is necessary to recall the popular legislative initiative promoted and coordinated by the SATSE nursing union, supported by more than 650,000 signatures, adopted here two years ago with enthusiastic speeches from the parliamentary groups that support the Government, especially the Socialist Group, which used the turn in favor, but which remains forgotten in the freezer of this House and that it is urgent for the ratios of nurses to be applied in Spain in order to guarantee the safety of the patient in health centers and other areas. As I said earlier, I will vote in favour of taking into account this essential and urgent proposal for a law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u46	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go. Good afternoon. Having heard from the spokesman for the People's Party, it seems that his party has no responsibility in the current state of affairs that is generating this increase in health violence, it has even ended up listing great successes of the measures that its Government has taken, which in the end has said they were not worth anything, and it has ended with another statement: to vote against this proposal is to vote against the workers in the sector. Look, to vote against this proposal is precisely to vote in favour of the sector, of the workers, because, in the end, with this prevention plan, what does it come to put on the table? To develop prevention plans that must be supported by the workers themselves in order to avoid violence that does not disappear and without putting through the Administration the real elements that have to face the problem of increasing health violence. We cannot put the problem of health violence on the shoulders of women and men who are working in health centres. We are not going to approve this proposal and we are not going to do it because we support the workers in the sector. Therefore, we really doubt the intentionality of this project. This project does not tackle the conditions of these increases in health violence. With this initiative you really want to hide the problem that is generating this increase, a problem in which you have and have had an important responsibility through your political responsibilities. They know very well that the main cause of increased violence in health care is the increased frustration and anguish of many people in their relationship with health services; it is the increased frustration and anguish of some people that has led to the increase in these situations, behaviors that fortunately only carry out a minority of these people who are suffering from the deterioration of health care. And in political terms, its policies, the policies of the People's Party, have been the main ones responsible for this situation, which are also affecting all the state's health systems. I also include here the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and Navarra. Frustration is growing due to the deterioration of attention. The problem needs to be addressed from this point of view. Resolving violence in the health field must be a priority at the moment for women workers, especially those who suffer directly from this violence and, in addition, because labour violence sometimes has high organizational and care costs. But we must also have another perspective: this violence affects the quality of life and the situation of the people who carry it out. This violence - I speak of the victim - must also be taken into account in the plans. To give greater prominence and importance to this problem requires the adoption of strategies that can solve the problem. Do you really want to approach him? Well, you have to take care of his causes. They will find that the risk factors of violence - if they review all the literature and existing works - are related to the organizational structure and its problems, rigid organizational structures, bureaucratized, authoritarian, inconsistent policies and regulations, inoperative information circuits and channels, a poor organizational climate and lack of system response capacity. Do you recognize yourself in this with the systems that you are driving? Of course I do. By putting in place means to correct these factors, it is when work risk prevention plans can be implemented that can be effective and the corresponding measures implemented in the work context can be implemented at the personal level, at the organizational level and at the personal level. Of course, occupational risk prevention plans are necessary! But ensuring the means of support for workers at the labour level, through support, training, access to organizational means, protocols, alarms, support reinforcements, etc.; at the social level, through campaigns and working with the population and creating protocols for the care of these victims as well, to people prone to these violent behaviors in the face of frustration. Do you want to respond to these situations of violence? Address the causes that cause them. With this, what you come to do is precisely to hide these causes and your own responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u48	Thank you so much. Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u49	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Firstly, first of all, on behalf of the Basque Group, I would like to express our strongest rejection of this type of violence suffered by health professionals. Of course, go from here our strongest rejection. Having said that, we share, as Mrs Velasco said in the bill that the People's Party brings to this House today, the need - which we think is correct - to carry out awareness-raising, information and prevention campaigns. But what we do not consider right is that these campaigns should be established by law. We understand that it is the health organizations themselves who are doing so and who must continue to do so, but not by law. The proposal for a law presented today, in our view, does not provide any effective guarantee of additional protection to those already in place in the general regulatory framework. In our view, these are issues that are already covered by this general system of occupational risk prevention in Law 31/1995 on Occupational Risk Prevention. There is a parallel between the two frameworks: the specific one that you propose and the general one that for other areas is also established, and we do not believe that it is necessary to establish this specific framework - as I said earlier - by the very nature of the facts that we are talking about, and because, indeed, in terms of effectiveness and efficiency, we believe that it is much better to support that framework that it has as an instrument - and that leads to the scope of collective bargaining and to a concertation between employers and workers in the field of their workplaces - to reach agreements to establish plans, protocols and so on. The awareness campaigns, of which we spoke before, will be reflected in the strategic plans and lines of the corresponding health departments, in our case, in Osakidetza, in Osasunbidea or in the health departments of Euskadi and Navarra, which are, in fact, already envisaged. There is already an observatory of the aggressions that it is working on, and this type of instrument or is concertation and adaptation to the specific centres, what allows is a greater flexibility and adaptation to the needs of each place, in addition to having that general framework to which we previously referred in which they can be concluded by agreements and agreements at each place. We do not consider - as I said before - that this proposal for a law that we are now bringing here provides any added protection in the field of evaluation, prevention, protection and even in the field of reparation that in many cases those people who have suffered episodes of violence must have. Therefore, we do not consider it necessary. We understand that all competent administrations must continue to take measures and improve the tools and tools they have in place to prevent further cases from occurring and to cut that increase which, in some cases, is detected both quantitatively and qualitatively, but the solution is not a specific framework, but rather to try to improve those agreements that currently exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u50	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u51	Thank you, President. A precedent closely related to the National Health System. Yesterday, December 19, we knew the data of the Observatory of Suicide in Spain, which are these here, which they draw up in a report that they make every year, and for the first time in Spain the 4000 suicides have been exceeded. [[shows a document reading: SUICIDIOS Spain 2021]] In 2021 there were 4003 people who took their lives, 2982 men, 1021 women, 11 suicides a day and one suicide every two hours. What else has to happen? We have been calling for a national suicide prevention plan for three years and we have been blocked for three years. I want to express from the Congress of Deputies' rostrum all our affection for the families of those who have lost someone by suicide and for all the survivors who suffer from misunderstanding and scant support from the Administration. I also want to remind those who have suicidal ideas to ask for help, to call 024, who are not alone, who do not give up, that everything has a remedy, except the decision to end a life, and that they will do irreparable harm to those who love them. I announce that my parliamentary group, Citizens, will continue to work because we know that they do not want to stop living, but they want to stop suffering. [[Applauds]] They bring here a proposal for a law to deal with the scourge of attacks on health care workers, but it seems more like a non-law proposal. It is full of good intentions, it is full of toasts to the sun, but it is quite inconcrete if it had to be applied as a law, as a legislative text, although it has a noble purpose. In any case, if it is adopted, we will support it, as it would be improved in the process of amendments. Looking for information on this matter I have read that on many occasions the causes for attacks on health care workers are cited and there is talk of frustration, deficiencies in the health care system... I don't know! The first thing I want to say is that, in the case of an assault on a health care worker, there is a main cause: the stupidity of the aggressor, the moral indecency and the recourse of all the lard that is violence. Let us not fall into the temptation to seek causes that may sound like justifications. There are detonators that activate who is violent per se, but it is violent in advance. The evidence has it that one in five aggressors is recidivist. The vast majority of Spaniards, when they suffer from poor health care due to lack of resources - never attributable to health professionals - know perfectly well that the health care provider suffers exactly the same problem and on a constant basis as the one they are suffering at the time. The Spanish health workers have already demonstrated in the pandemic that they are willing to do anything for the health of the Spanish, to the last thing they can give, which is life. What data do we have on assaults on health care providers? One report, the 2021 report on this subject, says the following: the profile of the healthcare professional - as has been said here - is mostly female - 77% of the cases of these assaults - between 35 and 55 years old; 40% of the assaults occur in the consultation; the rate of notification of assaults in primary care is 3.85 times higher than the rate in hospital care. Regarding the profile of the aggressor, 59% of the cases are men; as I have told you before, 19% are repeat offenders, and 74% of the aggressors are users or patients and the remaining 26% are family members or companions. If we listen to the Spanish Society of Family and Community Medicine or to the Association of Doctors and Superiors of Madrid, who have manifested themselves on this issue lately, saturation in primary care and hospital emergencies does not help this system. The lack of means in health care is a topic that must be addressed, because it is not acceptable for Spanish people to spend half a life in queues to be attended to in the National Health System. It is not because there are violent people or people who do not know how to control their impulses that we have to empower Spanish health care; the reason is for the Spaniards to have decent attention, not for the madman not to hit someone. By the way, many times the political class is responsible for the frustration of the peaceful and educated population in this matter. If we listen to the Association of Doctors and Superiors of Madrid, for example, it points out - and I quote textually - that politicians of all colors use health for electoral purposes promising the population a standard - with a full mouth - of the best health of the world without adequate funding, management and staffing, and create expectations that, by failing to meet, they release frustration against professionals, not against politicians who promise them what is not there. End of date. On the other hand, we have health managers who, as politicians put their finger on them, act as a mattress between reality and the political leader of the matter. The health manager, as it depends on the politician to be in health management, prefers not to disturb and silence or make-up many of these problems. The People's Party brings this here today, but its management in health is not always exemplary, nor crisis management. For example, in the midst of a pandemic in Castile and León, Verónica Casado, who was, by the way, the best family doctor in the world, stopped the health counselor, and they did so to call an election that Mr.Mañueco believed would suit them and that they became, by the way, a master's play. On the other hand, if an autonomous ruler is mobilized, whether they are right or not, because normally there are always motivations behind these issues, charging professionals does not seem to us to be the best way to contribute to a good image and calm within primary care centers. Bring this here - all right, we will vote for it - but calm down your political leaders when faced with problems of these characteristics. This is perfectly applicable to the Socialist Party. If you are dedicated to charging against health in administrations where you do not rule, you contribute to the trifle within the health system. In addition, they vetoed proposals from Citizens and instead of increasing primary care by 500 million euros, they are going to dedicate them to replenishing what embezzlers 'golpologists' stole to attack our democracy. That's resource management, at least, questionable. Finally, the proposal for a law is very good, but the main problem that health has is the resources, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, cease those who do well, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, veto those who propose it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u52	Your Honor, your time is up. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u53	So, as long as this doesn't change, you'll still be part of the problem. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u54	Thank you. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u55	Thank you, President. Healthcare professionals have for years had to cope with the fatigue of users for various reasons, including the management of time, whether waiting lists and their constant growth in all their variants-the waiting list of diagnostic tests, the waiting list of consultations with specialists, the waiting list for surgical operations -, whether it is the short time that professionals can devote to carrying out visits. Sometimes, this makes it difficult to create a climate of cordiality and well-being between patients and professionals. Most of the assaults that occur in the health field are verbal assaults on professionals; in primary care they are suffered by the doctors, and in hospitals, for the most part, by the nursing staff. According to the General Council of Official Colleges of Physicians, in 2012 there were 612 attacks throughout the State. In addition, as the Conseil de Col·legis d'Infermeres i Infermers de Catalunya warns, the incidence of the gender variable affecting professions focused on highly feminized care such as nursing should be taken into account. However, we believe that the current wording of this bill invades the existing competition framework of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Article 4 of the plan to prevent violence in the health field, in its section on measures to be implemented, organizational measures, according to the Statut d'Autonomia de Catalunya, are the responsibility of the Catalan Government for the prevention of occupational risks and occupational safety and health, as well as the organization and internal functioning of health centres. The second additional provision of this bill reads: comprehensive approach to health-related violence, creation of an observatory against health-related violence. The Generalitat de Catalunya already has the Observatory for Situations of Violence in the Health Field of Catalonia, which aims to serve as an instrument of study, analysis, follow-up and comprehensive approach to this type of violence. Among its functions are the creation of a register of cases of violence against health professionals in Catalonia, the establishment of training plans to prevent these situations of violence or the promotion of zero tolerance, among others; all of them overlap with those proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group in its initiative. Therefore, we will not support the consideration of this bill. Elvira, I cannot agree with the statement that voting against the bill is voting against those who are looking after our health. They will always find us working to eradicate any kind of violence, whether in the health field or in any other field, but we also call for respect for our institutions and their competences. Finally, I would like to thank, on behalf of the party I represent and on my own behalf, the enormous work of all health professionals before the pandemic, during the pandemic and after the pandemic is over. Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u56	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u57	Thank you, President. The People's Group brings to our attention a proposal for a law on violence in the health field and, although this initiative reflects a very repeated demand for health personnel and we really share, it has shocked us with the most punitive aspect that incorporates this proposal, because we do not think this is the most appropriate way to combat violence in the health field. We already know that when the People's Party, in the name of security, focuses the resolution of conflicts through criminal or punitive means, it sometimes ends up being used as a repressive tool in the face of any demand or even collective mobilization. This approach is not at the root of the problem. We must recognize that a very significant part of the violence generated in health centres is largely due to the deterioration of health services, as a result of the lack of investment in the last decade. Let us make it clear: the result of the lack of investment in the last decade. Therefore, the best way to avoid situations of tension and violence is to provide greater resources for public health. As simple as this, this is the real formula. In this sense, the proposal of the People's Group does not in any way reflect this consideration either here in Congress or in the Community of Madrid. The health system does not need more security, it needs more resources. Again: the health system needs no more security, more resources. [[Applauds]] The proposed law also proposes the establishment of a national register of acts of violence in the health field. In this regard, we believe that for those communities that already have a programme in this regard, it is in many cases a clear interference in their competence. The Government of the Generalitat has already approved in May of this year, as my partner from the PEcCAT has commented, the creation of the Observatory for situations of violence in the health field of Catalonia, on the proposal precisely of the Department of Health for the demands of the sector. This body must serve as a tool for the study, analysis, monitoring and comprehensive approach to this type of violence and, at the same time, it must also contribute to better decision-making, planning and evaluation of public health and safety policies of the staff of the health care centres and services of the Catalonian health system. This observatory will analyse, study and disseminate information to increase awareness of this problem in health centres and services, as well as to agree protocols for action and to issue recommendations to prevent and act against aggression. In that sense, it is a tool of prevention, not punitive. As has been pointed out, other important functions of the observatory are: precisely to promote the creation of a register of cases of violence against health care professionals in Catalonia; to establish training plans in the prevention of situations of violence among health care professionals; to promote the culture of zero tolerance in all agents of the health care system; and to analyse risk situations and incidents. The establishment of the observatory in Catalonia should provide the necessary information on socio-economic, gender, age and other factors that trigger situations of violence in this area in order to eradicate them. This is the way we consider it to be the one to work. There are other tools and mechanisms to address violence and internal tension in the centres. For this reason, because of the differences in the punitive approach of this proposal, but also because of the interference that it may entail in the competitive framework of the autonomous communities that already have programmes, we have advanced that we will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u58	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u59	Good afternoon. The aggressions of the People's Party towards public health and its professionals come to truly surprising extremes. I am referring to acts such as that of the Government of Madrid, which prevents food from arriving to health professionals who are locked up and protesting against the attacks of the Government of Madrid on public health. [[Applauds]] These aggressions by the People's Party began to be clear when Mr Feijoo and Mr Aznar decided to propose a law on the privatization of health which precisely allowed public hospitals of private management to have far fewer professionals than those of public management, with which the workload was much greater. The aggressions continued for years with the terrible and famous cuts in health. All professionals should be protected from such aggressive practices, but the People's Group's bill does not speak of this type of aggression, it speaks of the aggressions - let us say clearly - of patients. The People's Group recognizes that they are already penalized in legislation, but says that this is not enough. I'll explain why it's not enough. Because a law that only does punishing aggression is in no way focused on preventing it, what we are interested in here: preventing harm, not punishing it after de facto. How is that damage prevented? For his proposal for a law does not make any analysis, and I think he does not do so because the cause of the problem of ill-treatment of health care workers is the policies of the People's Party. The proposals you make in this bill are absolutely useless and seem curiously aimed at facilitating the flight in a case of aggression. Article 4c: Comprehensive assessment of the risk of violence, is there a door to escape? [[Laughter]] Who did this ever go through consultation? Is there a door to escape?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Article 4(d), a rozmbolesque text that approaches a possible cause remotely; twist it in such a way that it is not well understood what it says, but in the end concrete: reduce waiting times and respect internationally established ratios. Of course we have to reduce waiting times and respect ratios, and I tell you that for that we need to increase the number of health professionals and more investment in health; for that we need a tax reform that will get the rich to pay taxes, which you, the People's Party, are furiously opposed to. The rich must not be touched by a hard one; those who go to public health will already be supported. We already know what their policies are. Let's look at the causes of the aggression. Aggression occurs when the relationship between health care and the patient is altered, when confidence is lost. If confidence is lost, there is great mistrust and can generate violence. What does that mistrust produce? It is produced by the fact that the patient does not have an integrated health area, where the hospital, specialty centre and health centre are integrated, with planned work and where the patient receives all this work of education, prevention and assistance. Where is there no such thing? In the Community of Madrid and in all the places where the PP governs, where public hospitals are run by private companies whose only objective is to earn money. [[applause]] In these hospitals, health professionals are very few in relation to public management, because, if not, they would have no benefits. In these hospitals, patients are more at risk of avoidable health than in public management hospitals. The waiting lists are camouflaged in those hospitals. That a patient doesn't have a medical appointment when he or she has to, that when he or she goes to a consultation he or she should wait hours or that, when he or she is told that he or she has to operate, he or she has to wait more than a year generates distrust and, of course, can generate violence. Your proposal for a law does not in any way cover all this, because you, first of all, are against the public administration of public health and, secondly, you are against increasing funding. If they are absolutely against it! And they have proved it to the point of satiety: where they rule or where they have ruled, they have privatized health. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Yeah, yeah, laugh. The PP cuts have been of such magnitude that we have had to face this pandemic with a broken health. Its attacks are of such magnitude that the increase in the investments of this Government has not been able to compensate for this destruction in an immediate manner. It has been impossible to compensate for how you left us public health. When the PP proposes that there be a tax reform so that the rich pay taxes, so that health funding increases, so that the number of professionals can increase, to reduce the workload and so that more time is available per patient, we will vote yes. That will prevent aggression. [[Mr. Mateu Istúriz: No, no.-Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, don't say no, don't say no. When the PP proposes a law that prevents private companies from taking the benefits, instead of impacting that money on health care providers and patients, we will vote yes. That will prevent aggression. And when the PP stops ruining public services, which are great compensaters of inequality, then we will vote yes, because that will certainly prevent aggression. His plan seems to have been designed by an alarm company. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u60	Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u61	With venial, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we are presented for our consideration with a proposal for a law that was registered by the People's Parliamentary Group last March. The proposed law has five pages with the explanatory statement, sixteen articles, four additional provisions, one transitional and one final entry into force. In addition, it has an unfortunate name; it is called a bill on violence in the health field. It is unfortunate because the People's Parliamentary Group in its explanatory statement says that the problem that is to be solved is a cause - and I quote textually - in which health professionals are especially exposed to aggression and situations of violence, and that it is an occupational danger that must be prevented and avoided. Therefore, this proposal for a law should have been called a proposal for a law on violence against health personnel, not only because this name does describe the object of the proposal, but because it comes out of the fraudulent and tortuous use made by the left of the term violence. We know that the left uses in its propaganda the National Socialist principle of transposition - whose name in German I don't remember - for example, accusing the victim of having the intention to attack the murderer. We see every day in this House how the crimes are justified and how the friends of convicts pander before us. For the communist, all he opposes to his ends is violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you should already know that because you have been abusing yourselves for decades. So you should be careful to use such ambiguous names, since the left makes continuous incursions in this area to give the message that health professionals exercise, for example, violence against women. Although from a laughable point of view, it is not innocent that Mrs Calvo insinuated that doctors in the 1970s arbitrarily removed the vesicle and, of course - of course not! - Francois. [[Applause and laughter]] From the most sinister bank, the extreme left insists on denouncing the concept of obstetric violence, for example; a concept illuminated in the matrix of Bolivarian communism and whose false implant in the collective imagination has been denounced by the College Medical Organization and by this modest doctor - I do it here - for the simple reason, ladies and gentlemen, that, at least in Spain, this is an infamous slander. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of Podemos, ladies of Podemos, go to the countries whose name religion is submission and you will see there first hand what gynecological violence is, starting with genital mutilation. [[Applauds]] Therefore, let's focus on violence against health personnel, because we find worrying data, since in 2021, according to a ministry report, 1.57 out of every 100 professionals suffered it. There were 10,170 assaults and that most verbal assaults are not reported following the 2015 reform. Let us illuminate, yes, with our focus the violence against health personnel, because it is increasing, and let us know the context in which it occurs. Why did most of the assaults occur in primary care? Why is 90 % of the attacks occurring in the public and only 10 % in the private sector? Let us therefore look at the context; let us improve the mediocre report of the Ministry of Health; let us support the College Medical Organization, which has made it possible for violence against doctors to be declared an attack on authority, and denounce the lack of diligence of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health, which have made Instruction 1/2017 undeveloped. Is there reason for the Spanish to be dissatisfied with health carelessness? A lot. VOX has denounced it from this rostrum, when we were presented with the infumable Darias law. But there is not a single one to attack the healthcare staff, none at all! And it's intolerable for them to be slandered. Moreover, this violence against health workers has been protected here by saying that there are objective elements that justify it, starting with Mr de Bildu. How No!, no party without Aunt Joan, ladies and gentlemen, here in the house, for example, we hope that the vocation of service and devotion to the law will make the lawyers live up to the very grave moment that we live in. But we don't expect that from the health care providers; no, we don't, we don't expect them to do their duty, no. Why? Because we know for sure that they will fulfill their duty, as they have done throughout the history of Spanish health and in the epidemic. And what already cries out to heaven is that here all the left-wing groups have said that they will not support this bill because there are objective reasons to beat the toilets. That's intolerable! [[Applauds]] That is, the rulers should not continue to abuse the vocation of health professionals. This abuse has been reflected in the fact that all-color governments have made Spanish doctors the worst paid in Europe. To begin with, politicians need to know what they are and, for example, some community president would have to know - for God's sake! - that looks are not students, they are doctors. And, of course, to dignify working conditions is an essential step. That is the message that politicians and these General Courts must give, approving at least the consideration of this initiative. We will support the consideration of this bill, because we believe it can minimize aggression against health personnel, and we hope to be able to make amendments to the process. For starters, I would ask you to change the name and save us an amendment. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u62	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u63	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. First of all, a greeting to all the health workers who are accompanying us here today in this Chamber. Mrs Velasco, you have to be very calm to hear you talk about healthcare professionals, when you left us a health care with 30,000 fewer professionals, a situation we had to face with the pandemic. You know that, Mrs. Velasco, because you were in the ministry, although I think it was up to you to do a piece of paper with those arguments that you gave us. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing this initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group registered nine months ago. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, they didn't make a rush. In addition, that same day they removed another similar content previously recorded, amending the plane to yourselves. Two initiatives with disconcerting writings, repetitive writings, useless paragraphs and which create confusion with the current legislation on occupational risk prevention. One withdraws and the other takes nine months to discuss. As I was saying, little haste or little interest. [[Applauds]] For socialists, attacks on people working in the health sector are a major problem which also affects the quality and cohesion of the health system itself. For this reason, the Government of Spain has been working for several years and will continue to do so to prevent attacks on health professionals. You know that, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, because in this respect the 27 parliamentary questions put to Congress and the Senate have been answered in writing. For example, they know that the AlertCops application allows health personnel to seek help from State security forces and bodies in the face of any aggression. They know that the implementation of Instruction 3/2017 on police measures to be taken in the face of attacks on health professionals is being implemented by the national interlocutors, the National Police and the Civil Guard. They know the figure of the health police contact. They know that in 2018 the technical working group for the analysis and study of all the aggressions to the professionals of the National Health System with all the autonomous communities was formed; the group meets periodically, the last time on 14 December. They know that one of the initiatives that emerged at these meetings was to launch a day on 12 March, which is the European Day against Attacks on Physicians and Health Professionals. They also know that the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the Ministry of the Interior, has recently developed a public campaign aimed at health professionals and the general public to raise awareness and support victims who report the attacks. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you cannot rise to this rostrum and obviate the situation left by the governments of the People's Party with the cuts made between 2012 and 2018; cuts that reached citizens in general and health professionals in particular. You cannot rise to this rostrum and be silent in the face of the dismantling of Galician public health as a result of Feijóo's thirteen-year policies as president of Galicia. [[Applauds]] Monforte de Lemos, the second most populated municipality of Lugo, my province; it turns out that, of twelve doctors that should have been in the health center, there were days with one or two and no pediatrician, so the whole area of Monforte had to go to Chantada, another municipality that is 30 kilometers away and, by the way, equally saturated. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, even the High Court of Xustiza in Galicia has condemned the Galego Health Service for violating the rights of doctors and pediatricians in primary care. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you cannot rise to this rostrum and be silent about the answer Ayuso is giving to the doctors in Madrid, criticizing them for wanting to negotiate and denying that there is a health problem in the community; a president who, instead of working for an agreement, qualifies the protest as a child. [[applause]] In any case, the childish thing, the embarrassing thing about someone who grabs a rabies, is that it prevents them from delivering food to the doctors who were confined to defend primary care and that it prevents them from accessing a room with armchairs where they could sleep. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that's what President Ayuso did. But, yes, the PP every time he comes up to this rostrum, he asks for elections. A PP that, in other circumstances of crisis, the first measures it imposed were to limit the universality of access to public health and to reduce the supply of new places and the replacement rates of health personnel. [[Applauds]] This government, chaired by Pedro Sánchez, has worked from the zero minute, with responsibility, seriousness and firmness to reverse the situation originated by the People's Party and, yes, also to protect the health care workers. Mrs Velasco, what have you voted for for the EUR 1 billion to strengthen primary care? I'm telling you, they voted no. This Government faces temporality with the greatest stabilization process of more than 67,000 health professionals and, for the future, amending the framework statute to limit temporality. Since 2018, specialized health training has increased by 40% to increase the number of doctors and nurses, as the lack of specialists was due to a regrettable planning by the governments of the People's Party between 2011 and 2018. This is a process that will undoubtedly have a direct impact on better patient care. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. If something has made clear to us the pandemic is the value of the public, the importance of protecting people, the need to prioritize equity and the responsibility to strengthen the public health system in our country. The one hundred and twenty Socialist Members of Parliament appreciate the daily work of the health personnel, which is an example of commitment and professionalism; professionals and health personnel whom we respect and value: doctors and doctors, nurses and nurses, technicians, colerators, administrative staff. They and they are the backbone of the health system, and so are you, who are here today in the Chamber accompanying us. They take care of and protect our health, they take care of us and protect us all...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u64	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u65	... and it is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to protect them, and in this is the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u67	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the modification and adaptation of the reality of the employment statistics published by SEPE. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Prieto, I rise to this rostrum with the pride of having a president in my party who has won the elections four times by an absolute majority. [[Applauds]] By the way, you should reflect on why you are the third political force in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe for speeches like the one he's made. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group has a lot to do with the truth and slightly transcends the content of it, because it is a word that has disappeared from the dictionary with the government of Pedro Sánchez. It could take me all afternoon to tell the lies of the president of the government. Here too, the truth is missing; we have just seen it two times, when the spokesman for the Socialist Group said in this rostrum that Mr Maroto is illegally registered. Ladies and gentlemen, the courts have declared this registration legal. [[Applauds]] Do you know what registration they didn't declare legal? Maria Teresa Fernández de la Vega's, remember? Turns out they illegally funded the campaign, according to reports from today's Civil Guard. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, neither are the employment and unemployment figures telling the truth. Here, Royal Decree 32/2021 of 28 December was adopted, which simply introduced a measure to improve employment, which was that works by work or service disappear and that temporary contracts disappear practically. The employers, before this thesis, resorted to the figure that they had left, which was that of the fixed workers discontinuous. What happened? Because the 200,000 contracts that existed in the year 2021, in the year 2022, have been shot at 2 million. These changes, Your Honor, have not solved the labour problem, the duality of the labour market that we have in Spain. It is a simple trick: Sánchez's statistics have improved substantially; the quality of work in Spain has not improved anything. It's a trick that, as the vice president of the government would say - she's not - she's a chulsian! Quite simply, what is it, ladies and gentlemen? That a temporary worker who is unemployed, computes as unemployed, and a permanent, discontinuous worker who is out of work, who is claiming unemployment, who is a jobseeker, turns out that he does not compute as unemployed. This government has done a miracle: the unemployed are employees, ladies and gentlemen. For this government the unemployed are employed. This is the miracle of the famous labor reform. [[Applauds]] It is as if the Minister of Health - it is an idea that gave you, gentlemen of the PSOE, to improve health - speaks of discontinuous healthy. Suddenly, ladies and gentlemen, all of Spain would be healthy and would not compute a single sick person. Sanchez would have improved the health of all employees. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what I am narrating is not a question of the People's Party, Funcas, BBVA, the Business Institute, the Talent Institute, Fedea, the Quarterly Labour Market Observatory and a few more think tanks have just said. It turns out that the calculation of unemployment and employment, ladies and gentlemen, do not tell the truth. There's a lot of background noise and a lot of makeup. That is why we propose, ladies and gentlemen, among other measures - and I will highlight the most important - that a new statistic be introduced - it is indeed true that it would give us the truth of the figures: to draw up a supplementary indicator, not only that of the recorded unemployment, but that of the actual unemployment, with the actual unemployment being understood as the sum of unemployed jobseekers, as well as the sum of jobseekers who have employment contracts, among them the fixed discontinuous ones. That would give us an exact picture of the employment situation in this country. I'll tell you what: it rains on wet. This is not the first time that this Government has resorted to the tricking of statistics. I will remind you of the 162,000 killed by COVID and that this government only counted 98,000. When you like surveys, what do you do? They name Tezanos, who more than a CIS director is a Sanchez hooligan. Now they don't like the National Institute of Statistics, they don't like how the gross domestic product is calculated, how the EPA is calculated, how the CPI is calculated, and they're talking about introducing new modification criteria for the calculation. Formerly, do you know what that was called, ladies and gentlemen? Well, it was simply called data ma-ni-pu-tion. [[Applauds]] And this is the reality. All this they do, they do it for a purpose, that is to deceive the citizens and try to remain in power. That is the purpose of not telling the truth to the Spaniards, and behind this whole story is again manipulating reality. Once again, you strive to change the story, but I will remind you what the story is. The story is very simple: Government of Mariano Rajoy plus Government of José María Aznar, ten million jobs created, ladies and gentlemen. Ten million jobs, ladies and gentlemen! And you know what reality is? Do you know what reality is? [[Applauds]] Let the government of Zapatero and that of Felipe González: ten million unemployed, ladies and gentlemen! They like it more, less or nothing, that's the reality of their governments. [[Applauds]] Manifest incapacity! Thank you for clapping me! Good thing there's someone with sincerity in the Socialist Party! [[Laughter]] Especially now, when you come up to this rostrum, which I have heard before, do not think of saying that we are not happy that jobs are created. I want to tell you something: we are glad that jobs are created and I will explain why. Someone who has a job is a free person, with the capacity to decide, who does not have to endure when he goes to a window telling him that he is paying his pension or that he is paying his job a government like Pedro Sánchez's, ladies and gentlemen. And, above all, it is someone who when there are elections and populists come to say: No, the fault is capitalism, the king and NATO and I don't know how many more stories, simply teach a smile and say: I will vote for whom I have to vote. Nothing more and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u69	Thank you so much. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u70	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me tell you something: one thing is what is asked and another how is asked. Of course, if you want to get the rejection of anything you ask for, do it as you just did right now. [[Applauds]] I do not think that is the most logical formula for taking a serious approach or going to a debate that needs to be worked out because those kinds of formulas I think are even improper of your party. I'm really telling you. [[Applauds]] We will address the debate on the statistical issue in relation to labour law reform, Law 32/2021. It should be noted that this law, of course, is the premise of which a supplication for the non-legislative proposal starts, but it should also be noted that these effects of labour reform extend not only to individuals and institutions, but also to those statistical effects which, logically, must entail their application. The most important of these, it should be remembered, is that of consolidating stability in employment and relativising temporality. In other words, it extends and consolidates the presumption of indefinite contracts and the exceptional nature of temporary contracts. It is true, as far as the debate before us is concerned, that one of the effects of labour reform has been the increase in the number of fixed breaks, but it is also clear that this effect is a consequence of the fact that this type of contract has replaced many old temporary contracts - it is from here that the controversy or the debate that deals with this non-law proposal arises - but it should also be added that the reason for these substitutions is precisely that the new legal characterization of that fixed break allows to add guarantees of stability to its recipients, where in their day it responded to the temporality and precariousness that previously threatened them. However, it is legitimate to try to warn that this new legal reality, to call it something, must have its translation into the statistical sphere, but, I repeat, not in these terms. The non-legislative proposal points out that statistical objectivity is being altered, since, by making fixed discontinuous contracts indefinite, the actual unemployment figure is being concealed, understanding, as other actors have done, that this figure must include both the unemployed and job-seekers in relation to employment, which is what happened to fixed discontinuous contracts. That approach may be a request, but it is in turn a mistake, and let me tell you that. Since the Order of 11 March 1985 the applicants for employment with a fixed, discontinuous contract do not compute for registered unemployment. It was also recalled by the Secretary of State for Employment a few days ago: fixed breaks are not counted as unemployed, but as job seekers. It would be logical and understandable to point out that there is an undesirable effect for some of them as a result of the new characterization of the contract for fixed discontinuities. That is not true, nor is it lawful, that the data of the registered unemployment are being made up, as it seems to point out, but that they respond to this legal characterization that already made since 1985 that order that I have just reported. It would be understandable and understandable to request that the statistical method be adapted to the new characteristics of the new contract or of the new employment relationship and of the labour market, but not to state that it suffers from a lack of transparency. Some authors have pointed out as criticism that the recorded unemployment has ceased to be the best sign of the number of unemployed, and that is a reality that can be understood or not, but one that can be discussed. That is, in my view, a line of criticism on which we should discuss: to pretend that the statistical reality is changed to provide more accurate and adapted information to the new legal reality, but not in the starting situation of pointing out that it is a mistake, that it is a concealment or that it is something relatively perverse, let alone in the terms in which it has been carried out. That is why we are not going to support this non-legislative proposal. But let me reiterate the points I have just made to you: in any case, if we had any intention of supporting you, because we understand your direction, of course you have taken away from us the desire to be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u71	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u72	President, ladies and gentlemen, let us see if I am able to subtract some demagogy from this speech and bring some common sense. In Citizens we have always been very clear about the problem of our labour market and what needs to be done about it: to put an end to the temporality, which led thousands of workers, especially young people, to precariousness. Our proposals have always been on the table and there were two that stand out above the others, the single contract and the Austrian backpack. The labor reform, being very short, came to give us reason. The essential core of the reform was the reduction of the contract menu, ending with the great collapsing of temporary contracts for work and service, as we have been asking for for for years. At this time we have seen how indefinite recruitment has experienced historical growth in our country, while temporary contracts have fallen by 43%, they are 43% less than in 2019. Since then, your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group and of VOX have embarked on an absurd crusade - they will allow me -, saying that the change of temporary contracts to discontinuous fixed contracts is pure accounting makeup. And I say it's an absurd crusade because anyone who says it's the same thing as chaining temporary contracts that being fixed discontinuously, even working the same hours, can only do it out of ignorance or bad faith. In the face of the worker, it gives him something fundamental to be fixed discontinuous of what he previously lacked, what is certainty, and in the face of the entrepreneur creates incentives to invest in training his employees, which results in greater productivity and, in the long run, better wages. It would not end there the bad faith of the popular and VOX, because you also insist that the employment figures are manipulated, and again it can only be shown by ignorance, bad faith or both. On the one hand, with regard to the recorded unemployment, SEPE has been recording the fixed discontinuities in the same way for years, Mr Suárez, also in the years in which it ruled its party, the People's Party. On the other hand, if employment data were a gross statistical manipulation, as they suggest, we would also see it in the EPA unemployment rate. EPA is a harmonised survey at European level and is done equally in all countries. That is why it does not take into account the contractual regime, but rather questions about the actual work carried out. But we see that it doesn't seem enough to them, and we don't see anything weird in the EPA, because there's nothing weird in the employment data. The data is there. According to the EPA, the temporality rate in our country has dropped 6.5 points between the third quarters of 2019 and 2022. Social Security membership data indicate that the fall in the rate of temporality has been 12 percentage points over this period. That's right, there's a part of the people's proposal that we do agree with. When fixed discontinuous contracts represented a marginal part of the total number of existing employment contracts in Spain, it did not matter how they will be calculated. Today, which is much heavier, we believe that it would be appropriate to improve the quality of the data collected so far by SEPE. Just as it is indisputable that a fixed, discontinuous contract is better than a temporary one, it is also indisputable that it is not the same thing to be working effectively than to be between working periods and demanding employment. That is why we agree that the new reality of our labour market needs to improve the data available to us. The more information we have, the better we can understand the Spanish economy and the better we can evaluate public policies. In addition to the new disaggregated data that SEPE should provide from now on, it is also important that the treatment be done with the greatest possible transparency. For the time series, it is clear that last October there was a regularization of the data in SEPE that was not duly warned by the Government. These regularizations are often necessary, but if not done with transparency there is a risk that the economic analyses that have been carried out by them will be distorted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u73	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u74	I'm done, President. In short, we work, and we all work together, to improve data, but without denying reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u76	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Indeed, the non-legislative proposal points to manipulation of data, to gross work to alter statistics and to this lack of transparency that we certainly cannot share. It is true that there has been a paradigm shift. We also denounce in the Labour Committee that if one were now to do statistics on how many fixed phones or how many VH tapes or films are sold, it is clear that they would not be the same data as before, because new technologies have generated new formats. It is true that the change in labour reform that has recently occurred has altered what are the predominant contractual modalities, and those beautiful graphs in which so many are undefined are true that they cannot respond to reality when we compare two realities that are not comparable between them. But that we cannot compare two realities between them does not mean that these data are manipulated, that there is this lack of transparency that is pointed out. As we said earlier, when he occupied the debate on labor reform in Congress, neither the 2012 PP labor reform was so bad nor has the labor reform been so good that it has recently been done. The truth is that in the middle is where is the realization of a reality. The labor reform that the PP made in 2012 lasted until 2022, and the famous repeal of the labor reform that the PSOE government had to do and Podemos did not recover the 45 days per year worked, did not recover the processing wages, that is, that there was no real repeal of the labor reform. For this reason, we maintain that, while it is necessary to better refine the criteria for making statistics, we do not believe that there is in this sense a gross manipulation or a lack of transparency, but that what is required is more rigour in comparing the figures for the years before and after the entry into force of this new amendment of labour legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u78	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, President. Beyond the demagogic and inadequate discourse in the defense of the initiative, it is true that with the labor reform approved a few months ago it has moved from a labour market where there was an important presence of contracts of work and service to a renewal of these contracts to fixed discontinuous ones, with the temporary ones being reduced to counted exceptions. It is also true that, technically, discontinuous fixed contracts are indefinite contracts, they have more guarantees than temporary contracts, such as old age or greater compensation in the event of dismissal, but they also have intermittent effects and, in particular, we are interested here and now, when the discontinuous fixed worker ends the season, the company gives him a social security discharge, ceases to contribute and materially remains unemployed; this is the reality. On the other hand, this worker, or worker in many cases, has the statistical status of occupied. This is not new - Mr Barandiaran explained it - but what is new is that the fixed discontinuous contracts have practically covered, as a result of the labour reform, all the space previously occupied by the temporary ones. This, if you look at it, is a problem, because it distorts the working reality. Some figures have already been given, but I will give you a recent example which serves to give us an idea of the magnitude of the number of discontinuous social security workers who are at home unpaid, claiming unemployment and who are as assets. In October 53 000 persons were discharged and in November 33 000 more; in two months 53,000 plus 33,000 inactive persons, but including in the box of job seekers in employment relationship, DENOS; therefore, formally occupied. It is clear that when the Ministry of Labour states that the labour reform has led to the multiplication of indefinite contracts and that labour stability is being reduced, it is actually setting traps for the lonely. Undefined contracts will increase or decrease, but you have to discount the misleading effect of adapting companies to the new labour law framework. We cannot be told that the Eurostat guidelines are being followed. SEPE has to really tell us where we are, clarify what the actual occupation is and therefore disaggregate information on fixed discontinuous contracts. The gap between the registered unemployed and the real unemployed is estimated to be up to half a million. It is not acceptable that official data should not clarify anything, but rather, on the contrary, that they should conceal reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u79	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I have the floor. Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u80	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have many problems; one of them is a problem with democracy. Yes, you don't like democracy, and it's not that I say it, it's that your own story says it. You come from the Popular Alliance, which was created by Fraga and co-led by six other Francoist ministers and, therefore, because you have Francoist and coup tradition, you do not support the unquestionable improvement of employment and recruitment data produced during this legislature thanks to the policies promoted by the Ministry of Labour, and that is why you send laws like this to the Constitutional Court, or the renewal of the Constitutional Court itself, trying a soft blow to democracy with an expired mandate and a renewal blocked by the People's Party, along with the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary for four years, with conservative judges faithful to the People's Party; so that then it is said that the judges do not have ideology. All of this is done by you to hold on to the armchairs and be able to maintain judicial control. They also have a problem with the laws, yes. I remind you that the data that SEPE handles are handled by the rules of the Ministerial Order of 11 March 1985, that is, that thirty-seven years has been working and publishing SEPE statistics with these rules, rules under which you were governing sixteen years with the governments of Mariano Rajoy and Aznar. They also have a problem with reading statistics. Frankly, I do not know if it is clumsy, if it is useless or if it is bad faith, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the data they are requesting are already available under the sections of the number of permanent workers who are receiving unemployment and also as unemployed job seekers. It is a matter, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you know how to add, nothing more. What bothers them is that he is ruling Unida Podemos and that in that legislature, and especially since the labor reform is in force, the unemployment recorded throughout Spain has been reduced almost 10 points. And that reduction in unemployment is so, they measure it as they want to measure it. You can go to the EPA, if you don't like SEPE data. The 2020 unemployment rate was 16,1 %; in 2021, 13,3 %; and in 2022, 12,7 %, almost 4 points lower, and that was very high due to the COVID crisis. You came to the government in 2011 with an unemployment rate of 21.28%, due to an economic and financial crisis - I recognize it - but immediately, in 2012, you made your labor reform to facilitate the destruction of jobs at low cost and, thus, a year after your reform, you got in Spain to be on the street, without a job and with great fear, 6,278,200 people, which hit all records: the historical unemployment record, the record of the exponential increase in unemployment in less time, the record of youth unemployment and the record of women's unemployment. [[The lady]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you also have a problem with social rights, because, for the most part, showing the enormous contempt felt by the members of the People's Party for the poor, that same year you cut the unemployment benefit to 50% after the first 180 days, eliminated the unemployment benefit for over 52 years, and hundreds of evictions continued, while Mrs Andrea Fabra - who will remember well - dedicated, among applause from all the members of the People's Party, the 'Fuck you!' to all those who stopped on 11 July 2012, when they cut off the unemployment benefit that we have already managed to reverse. That is why you bring us this proposal, despite the fact that you yourselves recognise in your text the undeniable improvement that means having a fixed contract discontinuous with respect to the temporary contract. By the way, what they are telling us today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, has nothing to do with what Mrs.Fátima Báñez told us there for 2018. When the average duration of the contracts was nine days, Mrs Báñez told us that we were in the spring of employment. I'm on my way. Ladies and gentlemen, the best thing that can happen to people in this country who need to work in order to be able to pay the bills is for you to keep your hands out of the regulation of the labour market and SEPE.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u81	Miss Isabel Franco, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u82	I'm on my way. But not only that, but also of the Constitutional Court because the only way to preserve the democracy of coup and continue to advance in the quality of life of the population is that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are far away. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u83	Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group on changing and adapting the reality to the employment statistics published by SEPE. The aim is to improve transparency, to provide a further disaggregation of data and to know the reality of the actual unemployment figure, defined as the sum of unemployed jobseekers and jobseekers with employment relationships, among which are fixed discontinuities. Knowing the figure of effective unemployment is essential to undertake the necessary analysis of the labour market in Spain and to propose solutions to its inefficiencies. Ladies and gentlemen, something does not work on the labour market when the unemployment rate in Spain has risen from 8.8% in 2017 to the current 12.6%, while in the euro area the 2007 levels have recovered and in countries such as Germany and the United States it has fallen significantly. Something does not work on the labour market when Spain, despite not having the actual unemployment figures, has been leading OECD unemployment statistics for more than a year. [[Applauds]] Something does not work on the labour market when the youth unemployment rate in Spain has grown from 19.2% in 2007 to 32% today, while the youth unemployment rate in the euro area has only increased from 15.6% to 16.5% for the same period. Something does not work in the labour market when we are the country that most jobs destroy in times of crisis and the country that takes the longest to recover. Something does not work in the labour market when a prestigious educational centre, such as the University of Cambridge, has placed Spain at the tail of the countries of the European Union in creating jobs, productivity or security in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, low productivity is one of the structural problems of the labour market in Spain. By 2020, it was 14.1% below the euro area average and was 85.5% below the United States average; and this labour productivity gap is one of the factors explaining the distance of the Spanish economy in terms of well-being with other euro area countries. We must also remember the direct link between unemployment and economic growth. It's very easy. Being unemployed means that there is a lack of economic income that limits consumption and, therefore, there is a drop in sales by companies that decide to cut staff by reducing income. Unfortunately, we have a government that, by ignoring the reality of the labour market, is unable to make reliable projections of its future evolution. [[Applauds]] In this regard, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, in its report on the Government's Stability Programme for the period 2022 to 2025, questioned the Government's estimates of ending 2025 with an unemployment rate of 9.6%. In the same vein, the OECD, which does not envisage that the unemployment rate will fall by 12,5 % for the period 2022 to 2025; or the European Commission; nor does the estimates of the evolution of unemployment in the International Monetary Fund appear. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that not promoting the transparency of employment data is an indignity, that drawing unemployment data from job seekers is an immorality and a lack of sensitivity, that making triumphalist speeches with an unemployment rate of 12.6% is a complete obscenity. You are giving the institutions a coup d'état and you are also giving statistics a coup d'état. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u85	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Vilches Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u86	Thank you, President. Don Quixote said to Sancho, "The fear you have makes you not see or hear to the right, because one of the effects of fear is to disturb the senses and make things not seem what they are; and if you are so afraid, withdraw to one side and leave me alone. Ladies and gentlemen, the reading of this proposal has evoked me to the Quixote, not because of the literary quality of the GNP, but because of the problem of the People's Party with the objective reality and the doubt that they constantly sow and, moreover, to the convenience of whether the testimony of the data is safe or fallacious, as when Don Quixote dwells on the fact that the barber's splendour was Mambrino's helmet and that the donkey's albard were horsehogs, you strive to transform the transparency of the data and the objectivity of official data into mud and noise to attack the government. [[Applauds]] The data are not deceptions or enchantments, which because they do not find taste in the truth, lying comes to them very much, said Don Miguel de Cervantes. Because the official data of official bodies - SEPE, EPA, Eurostat - which are accounting in the same way on the basis of the law that came into force in 1985 are indisputable and objective. And sowing the doubt of the truthfulness of these is bad as a political strategy and is dangerous for democracy. [[Applauds]] It takes thirty-seven years - thirty-seven years - to publish monthly statistics and with transparency and clarity, when the central SEPE collects the data provided by the autonomous communities. Or is it that where they rule adulterated data? Thirty-seven years with the same cataloging of statistics of permanent discontinuous workers and a person with indefinite fixed discontinuous contract, who is in inactivity, if not seeking employment, is not unemployed. Unemployed women who are available to work and actively seek employment for the EPA, SEPE, Eurostat, not for the People's Party; thirty-seven years, accounting for fixed discontinuities in the same way and in the years they have ruled neither hindered nor seemed wrong to them, right? And now they're asking that what they call effective unemployment be accounted for. Let's see, if it's as simple as adding unemployed applicants to the more unstoppable applicants with a job relationship, both figures, accounted for and published by SEPE, and voilà, there's the data. [[Applauds]] If there is no trap or cardboard, ladies and gentlemen of the right. They see giants when they are nothing but mills, and they bring us this GNP when we have the best employment data for the last fifteen years. [[The lady]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, but, as you say in my people, this does not occur to you or to the manteca, because they are not happy, Mr Suárez, that they are not happy with the 20.5 million members of the Social Security system, nor with the 77700 most occupied in the third quarter of the year, nor with the growth of employment in the last twelve months, which has been 12.57 %. If they're looking for slurps and tweezers to hide it! When the EPA tells us that, in Spain, in the third quarter of the year there were 2,980,000 unemployed, they are almost identical to those of SEPE. And they say that labour reform has not created employment. Look, Mariano Rajoy's Government, 2013, with more than half of young people unemployed, unemployment rate, 26%, today 12.46 %. And what did you do? Labour reform with temporary contracts, days, no rights, reduction of redundancies, prevalence of company agreements; cut public unemployment benefit 25 points at the worst time of the economic and financial crisis, with six million unemployed in this country. [[Applauds]] It's over, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Cervantes said, everyone is the creator of his fortune. And today's difficulty in reaching the truth is due to the arrogance, selfishness and intolerance of an opposition that only understands the rules of the game when they govern, so that we must all - as Don Quixote says - beg our Lord very truly to free us from evil sorcerers and evil charmers. So, fellas, leave them, when they bark, it means we're on our way. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilches. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE RECOGNIZATION OF THE RIGHT TO AFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE FROM +. [[File number 162/000755]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u88	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the recognition of the right to affective accompaniment DA +. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Guerra López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u89	Thank you, President. 'Doctor, I'm suffering physically and mentally. Nothing works for me. I have no illusion of life. I have no wife, no children, no money to go to a residence. I only think of dying without suffering, to rest and not giving work or disgust.'This is a note that a patient wrote to his family doctor and that has authorized me to bring here today to this plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to ask you for a favor, that we empathize with all those people who feel alone among so many people, and that we focus on one of the problems that most affects our society. I will give you a figure; 92.9% of people think that unwanted loneliness is a major social problem; 92.9% of Spanish and Spanish people. Today I ask you to focus on looking at detail and sharpen your ear to hear what you want to tell us, what you have to tell us, and what people who feel that they are doomed to loneliness are silently shouting; a loneliness that they do not want; a loneliness that kills them in life. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, unwanted loneliness kills; it increases the risk of premature death by 30% due to cardiovascular, infectious and cognitive deterioration; it increases the risk of depressive disorders and anxiety and increases suicidal behaviour. Although, when we talk about unwanted loneliness we cannot focus solely and exclusively on the elderly, according to the State Observatory of Undesired Solitude, the young people were the life cycle in which they felt more alone without wanting it, today I would like to focus on the elderly, since it is from them that I came to ask to put the right to affective accompaniment at the centre of the legislative agenda, and therefore, at the centre of the political agenda. Specifically, I came from the hand of Som Base, an entity that works from volunteering in Barcelona to improve the living conditions of citizens. Some of its members today accompany us here: Maurici, Manuel, Fernando, Jesus, many thanks. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the population over the age of 65 has tripled over the past 50 years; and the greater than 80 years has increased fivefold. 20% of the Spanish population is over 65 years old, and that percentage will increase to 30 in 2030. In Spain there are 5 million people living alone; 50% are women over 65 years of age. Over the years, the Socialist Party, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has worked to consolidate and increase the rights of older people. We have done so through the Toledo Pact and the increase in pensions by linking it to the CPI, as we will do in 2023; making housing more accessible to avoid residential exclusion; promoting the Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Care for Dependency; creating the Imserso and the Promotion of Healthy Ageing; and, more recently, with the new model of residential care. But each and every one of the proposals I have just mentioned to you, all of them, are linked to the material conditions of life. And what happens to the emotional needs of older people? Unwanted loneliness does not respond to a vital option, but rather an imposition of life. Moreover, unintended loneliness responds to a system, the capitalist, and to a way of life, the neoliberal, that prevails individualism over the common good. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, the Barcelona Parliament published a study on tele-assistance, that little alarm that the elderly carry around their necks or wrists and that allows them to contact an emergency centre in the face of an emergency or need situation. Well, 50% of older people who use teleassistance do so to alleviate loneliness. 50% of older people who use teleassistance do so for a moment; to speak for a moment, ladies and gentlemen, and that statement again challenges us all. We cannot hear those words and not feel that we have failed, individually and collectively. We cannot hear those words and do not feel that we have lost the sense of belonging to the group, to the community; that community that is concerned and concerned about everyone, especially the most vulnerable, because it understands that success is only success if it is collective. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to say loud and clear to people who feel alone without wanting to know that it is our duty, as public authorities, but that it is also our commitment, as a society, not to condemn them to loneliness. Today we are here to incorporate in the political agenda the right to affective accompaniment as a political obligation. The United Nations has declared 2020-2030 the decade of healthy ageing. They support this proposal and we call on this Parliament to incorporate the Som Base proposal, the right to affective accompaniment as a universal right. All efforts will be limited to put an end to unwanted loneliness. All efforts will be few if we get anyone to write again: I only think of dying without suffering, to rest and not giving work or disgust. I'm on my way, President. The Malagasy philosopher Maria Zambrano said that 'The heart is center, because it is the only thing of our being that gives sound'. Let us fill the unwanted loneliness with sound, the sound of the beats of the right to affective accompaniment. Thank you very much. [[applause.-Mrs.War Lopez throws a kiss to the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. War. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position at this time, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. He urged the Socialist Parliamentary Group to promote before the United Nations the proclamation of the right of persons to the DA+ emotional accompaniment, and bearing in mind that the initiative was registered in June 2021, that is, a year and a half ago, it did not seem that there had been an overwhelming enthusiasm to circulate something in which the whole House would most likely agree. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject and as a previous comment, it is necessary to express sincere thanks for the work of the volunteer organisations which in different parts of Spain are trying to raise awareness of emotional accompaniment among society. In our country, moreover, this work has a very broad and growing field of action for the serious demographic crisis that we suffer, reflected in a galloping ageing of the population, as statistics have consistently pointed out in the face of the failure of the Ministry on the Demographic Challenge, which has the rank of vice-presidency, even if it does not seem so. I stress this because I come from Asturias, an autonomous community in which ageing is among the most accused in Europe, with its drift in terms of loneliness and the different variants, including the problems described by Mrs Guerra López and which are extended to the whole of the national territory. There are studies that number almost 3 million people affected by emotional loneliness, but this is not an exclusive phenomenon of Spain, in fact, other countries such as Japan or the United Kingdom have created specific ministerial divisions to combat it. I am sure that at the next Christmas Eve dinner, Father Ángel, a universal Asturian, creator of Messengers of Peace, will again ask this year in the emblematic Paraninfo Hall of the Complutense University of Madrid for a public effort in the state, autonomic and municipal spheres to tackle the pandemic of loneliness that seriously affects us. It also serves as a reference to the terrible data of the National Institute of Statistics known yesterday on the number of suicides registered in Spain in 2012, more than 4,000, the largest annual figure in the nation's history. Ladies and gentlemen, from the right of people to affective accompaniment I speak here in a very broad manner in Congress Mr Blancafort Planas as the visible head of this universal recognition project. The social volunteers of Som Base who accompany us in the guest gallery, to whom I greet, will have checked that the saying that the palace things go slowly applies here, because very soon two years will be fulfilled since that appearance in the Committee on Social Rights. That is why I will allow my wish to the promoters to be tenacious, constant and patient in their well-deserved civic mission, because agility is also not characteristic of another palace, that of the Moncloa, except for the particular political emergencies of their principal tenant, as we are seeing these days. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in addition to encouraging the UN to declare people's right to emotional accompaniment, we must put into practice in our country the strengthening of means to help the organisations and volunteers who are dedicated to this noble humanitarian task of solidarity. Therefore, my amendment to add, because if it is a question of addressing the UN to promote a new universal law, it would be appropriate for the Government to impose obligations in this area in parallel and to facilitate the awareness of Spanish society, applying constant, sound and efficient measures in favour of the fight against unwanted loneliness and marginalization through emotional accompaniment. My amendment adds two new points to the original initiative. The first calls on the Government to accompany the UN's drive to recognize the right of people to emotional support with measures that will intensify aid to organizations and entities dedicated to combating chronic loneliness through social volunteering in all areas and levels of government. The second point in my amendment calls for 'promoting information and awareness-raising campaigns to reinforce the vital importance of emotional support'. This is particularly important in view of the critical demographic situation that we have already experienced in Spain and that will worsen over time, dragging the number of all these needs that are described in the original initiative when it states that all people have the right to relate and to be treated with affection, to feel accompanied, and that this relationship between the equals is effective, free, bilateral, direct, respectful and consented. In any case, my vote will be in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u93	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We start with a problem that is really very serious, just listen to some testimonies. 'I have never liked being alone; since my husband died and my children live far away, I have had no choice. As I can barely move, I go out very little and talk to very few people; sometimes I spend my days without talking to anyone. It's too hard. I try to sleep to kill time, because, although TV keeps me company, I can't help but turn my head around and feel bad, feel very lonely. Sometimes I think it would be better not to wake up. "I left the reception centre two years ago, tried to find a job, but it's very difficult and I don't have any money for almost anything. I've been talking to my mother about WhatsApp since I got here and we used to cry together. When we talk, it's hard. I want to be with her and she wants to be with me, but it's not possible. I told her I've been able to learn Spanish and she tells me she's very proud, but I get very sad when I think about how lonely I am in this country, and I'm also angry because I don't know what to do.' These are the testimonies of Maritxu and Youssef. Maritxu is an 80-year-old midwife from Arrasate, a village in Gipuzkoa, which has a modest pension with which she faces more or less her expenses, is a widow and has reduced mobility. Youssef is a young migrant who arrived in Euskadi at the age of 15 leaving his family behind and is now 20 years old. There are many voices, testimonies. Unwanted loneliness affects many people, older or younger, more and more people. There are many youussefi and many maritxus in our country. The pandemic has revealed with terrifying virulence how vulnerable we are, it has highlighted the need to have a network of family, friends, neighbors, public service personnel who accompany us in our different vital stages, more at difficult times. We're interdependent beings, we've been saying it for a long time by feminists. The neoliberal model of self-sufficient individuals has already become a mere chimera. In addition, unwanted loneliness is not a heritage of any generation, it affects many people and many social groups. Obviously, in old age it is when this situation is accentuated, but there are other sections of age and other vital circumstances that are affected by unintended loneliness. They are people with disabilities, migrant people, people with mental health problems, and, of course, young precarious people or women who are victims of male violence who have been trapped by their aggressors and who have been limited in their contact with their support networks. Because of the gravity of these situations, it is urgent to implement as soon as possible the national strategy against the unwanted loneliness of the elderly found in the road map, as we know, of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, and in this respect our amendment goes. It is very important, as we say, to approach this phenomenon, which must be done with a multidisciplinary, preventive and inclusive approach, with a cross-sectional gender approach, in order to detect through life stories the processes that derive or can derive in unwanted solitude. The approach of unintended loneliness must insist on the recognition of interdependence and vulnerability as inherent in life itself, present at all stages of life. But we have good news, that goal is getting closer and closer. Since 2019, as you know, the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 has been working on the national strategy against unwanted loneliness. Confinement and its impact delayed this strategy, but it immediately resumed its development, and this time with a renewed more accurate diagnosis of the situation that included lessons learned, of course, from the pandemic. In this sense, they launched throughout 2021 consultations with third sector organizations, with the academy, with the Network of Cities and Communities Friendly to the Elderly, and also with the network own, of course, of the Imserso centers, to explore this reality through the experience of local policies. We therefore hope that this work will come to an end very soon and that we will be able to see approved this national strategy on unintended loneliness that is so much missing for us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u95	Very good afternoon. I will give some data that illustrate the situation of many elderly people in Spain. According to data from the European Union, 18% of people would be socially isolated. In the case of Spain, 10.4% of households are single-person and directly affect the elderly, but, more importantly, almost a quarter of people over the age of 65 live in solitude, and this affects women much more than men, because loneliness is eaten with women and those over the age of 80. In addition, the health pandemic has shown that we are facing a new social pandemic, which is loneliness. Is it time to act? Yeah. And give an effective answer? Yes, gentlemen of the government. Precisely, you have mentioned in the explanatory statement of this non-law proposal that in 2018 this Congress passed a non-law proposal concerning the promotion of measures to combat unwanted loneliness, but what you do not say is that that non-law proposal was from the People's Party, which we were the first to talk about this problem in this House. [[Applauds]] And since then what have you done? Absolutely nothing. Faced with the inactivity of his Government, my group has put forward different initiatives to make the national strategy to combat unwanted loneliness a reality once and for all. We have tabled amendments in the general state budgets of 2021, 2022 and 2023 so that precisely this national strategy will be put in place and approved. And what was your answer? Systemically, we reject our amendments. I recently asked the Government of Spain how much they will allocate in 2023 to combat unwanted loneliness. I read the reply of your Government: To support the first activities of elaboration and dissemination-first activities, five years later - a specific match has been enabled in the Imserso - and we said: Good!- 50,000 euros to help 2 million elderly people living alone in Spain. [[Rumors]] It's 50,000 euros, because you've told me in writing. This is a shame! What has to happen in Spain to combat unwanted loneliness among older people? And to say that they do something, they present this initiative, well-intentioned, urging themselves to make a proposal for the United Nations to proclaim the right of people to affective accompaniment. Well, of course, you are not an example of anything in Spain, because other countries, such as Japan or the United Kingdom, are. And what do you expect, to be an example in the UN? Ladies and gentlemen, fighting unintended loneliness is the same as engaging, yes, in favour of the company, as you propose, but this positive bias cannot cover reality and inaction after almost five years of government and three years of coalition government, because they will not cover the shame of their inaction. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, even in this non-law proposal you have lacked courage, courage and ambition. They have no courage because they urge the UN and the government does not take on a single responsibility. They have no courage because they do not dare to tell the Ministry of Social Rights to approve the national strategy once and for all. And they lack ambition because Mr Maurici, of Som Base, of course, had much more courage in asking the government to also do studies to set in motion precisely the emotional accompaniment. This was in February 2021 and two years later they did not study and did nothing. [[Applauds]] That is why we reiterate, once again, that it is urgent to adopt the comprehensive strategy and adapt it to the different situations of loneliness, because unintended loneliness is a new social need to which administrations must respond. And we have a ministry that, unfortunately, is not and is not expected on this subject. Are the 397 164 people on the waiting list of the unit or those who have to wait an average of 378 days to receive a service or a benefit not feeling alone and abandoned? And some of the 23,837 people who died being on the waiting list in the first half of this year also felt alone, because the dependency shock plan did not reach them. And they alone feel almost a hundred victims who see how their assailants, sex offenders, have their convictions lowered thanks to you and your laws. [[Applauds]] Socialists, words are useless if they are not accompanied by facts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u96	Thank you, Mrs. García. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u97	Thank you. Good afternoon. Let's go, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember the time of confinement when at certain times we went out to the balconies and tried to have people who were cared for, because they lacked food and we had to shop for them, or some similar thing? It was a time when the lack of social relationship pushed us to seek solutions to a situation that affected us all personally, we needed this kind of collective empathization to be able to develop and endure those measures that were hard also in the personal. Imagine now that for those people who were in a situation of absolute loneliness at that time that was a solution; that is, they were people who were alone at home, unattended, as it has now been exposed a moment ago, mostly older than a certain age, and that, however, faced with a situation of neglect, they suddenly found the moment when they could go out to the balcony to talk and feel accompanied and ask someone to bring them, bring or whatever. Imagine now that, suddenly, that situation of loneliness returns and they again feel neglected and unprotected, with lack of collective affection. That is a situation - some have commented - in which as a collective, as a society, unless we go to seek precisely some kind of solution to prevent that which has been classified as the pandemic of the twenty-first century or the plague of the twenty-first century, loneliness, in a harsh way affects the physical and mental health of all those people, above all older than a certain age, we want those solutions that were for all those who moved well and that, at another time, we may not have that kind of capacity, also be effective for those who are already in this situation of unprotectedness. I think that is simply what this non-law proposal wants, to urge the Government to ensure that this collective protection situation that we have given ourselves when we all feel neglected or isolated becomes effective for everyone by tomorrow. Obviously, we will vote yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u99	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Hemingway said in a wonderful book, The Old and Sea, that no one should be alone in his old age, but it is inevitable that it is. In Citizens we work not only to make it avoidable, but to make sure that no one in our country is alone, if he does not want to be. Unwanted loneliness is one of the great problems we face as a country, taking into account our demographic situation and the future prospects at the population level. It is estimated that in twenty years Spain will be the longest country in the world. This implies that the number of older people living in our country will grow year by year and, in parallel, the number of people living alone. Already in 2020 there were 100,000 more people than the previous year living alone in Spain and, of them, almost half were 65 years of age or older. The worrying thing is that this number will grow every year and, with it, the problems arising from chronic loneliness, because according to the World Health Organization, loneliness is one of the main causes of the deterioration of the physical and mental well-being of people, especially the elderly. In fact, it is proven that those who confess to living in an unwanted state of loneliness are at a 26% higher risk of developing dementia in the future. The problem, as we see, lies not in the loneliness itself, but in the unintended chronic loneliness; a situation that mainly affects the older population and, to a greater extent, women, which affects the whole population and whose effects go beyond physical and mental health. According to data from the La Caixa Foundation, 20% of people between the ages of 20 and 40 are at risk of social isolation due to loneliness. There is a loneliness that usually begins soon, endures until the age of 65 and, from there, increases considerably until the age of 80. In Spain, today there are 850,000 people over 80 who live alone, many of them because they have no other choice. And to the problems of living in solitude we must add the difficulties of mobility, which prevent them, for example, from leaving home without help. For this reason, we look forward to the initiative we are debating today in this context of increasing chronic loneliness and with more and more elderly people dying - sadly, ladies and gentlemen - alone in their homes, without anyone realizing the situation and reality in which they live. That is why this initiative will count on our support. I must once again remind the members of the Socialist Party that you are the ruling party and that it is very good to bring in such declaratory initiatives as this to fight for emotional accompaniment, but it would be more interesting for them to push real policies to fight this reality, which they will legislate in a coordinated way with the autonomous communities and with the municipalities to put in place concrete plans to fight this reality that we have to tackle. I really encourage you to do so and he anticipated that you will have the support of our party, but I urge you to fulfil this right of people to affective accompaniment, which seems to us to be a good thing if you really get started, but with direct actions. No one should live in solitude if he doesn't want to, let alone die that way. That is why it is necessary for us from the public authorities to join in initiatives as enriching as that of the Som Base partnership proposal, which has a clear premise. The premise is that all people have the right to relate and to be treated with affection, in short, to feel accompanied. If we do not work soon chronic loneliness we will find an intolerable increase in the number of people who die out of loneliness or who develop mental health problems because of living in this situation. Finally, since we are talking about chronic diseases, loneliness, and situations of difficulty, as I have told you on several occasions, I say again something related to a serious illness, such as ALS; I will repeat every time I go up to this rostrum the need for unlocking the law of ALS, because they are serious sick, they are chronic sick, they do not have the proper services and this House must unlock the law of ALS. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor first, Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, again. First of all, I want to welcome and thank the friends of Som Base, which is not the first time we see each other and I trust that it will not be the last. The truth is that Maurici Blancafort had the opportunity, in the Committee on Social Rights, to explain this issue deeply, an issue that they are fighting day by day and that is also part of the working dynamics of Friends of the Great Gent or of the different talks and actions that they carry out with all the entities with which they coordinate. This task is not easy and it is also done by volunteers who promote the non-legislative proposal that is being considered today, and I think we need to give it our unanimous support. The emotional accompaniment that is pointed out in the non-law proposal involves combating loneliness and also increasing solidarity between people, in this idea that people are a social being, in short, people who help people. This scenario of volunteer work, the support to combat the loneliness of older people, is what we have to worry about as a society, what we always aim to make a better society or make a society where people have a better quality of life; it is evident that at this point the quality of life is an element that can earn many points to fight this loneliness. The truth is that today I believe that - as we mentioned earlier - a genuine turning point is generated, a launch that can give much more wings to this initiative and, therefore, that with the recognition that the Congress of Deputies can make by supporting this type of initiative there can be a multiplier effect of the support from other municipalities, from other parliaments, from regional councils, from the Generalitat de Catalunya, from the Parliament, from entities that also add to this need for support and institutional coverage to what is the reality of a work done for a long time, done with great constancy, with a lot of will to spread it, because it is, without a doubt, a good cause, and made - and it must be said so clearly and so high - with the complicity of PeCAT and of so many political forces that we support it, and with the complicity of many of the political actors. We believe that the work in this line must have continuity and that the leap that can be made today or the day that we vote with the approval of this non-law proposal should serve to achieve many more successes. Good luck.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u103	Welcome. More than seventy years ago, it was discovered that loneliness kills; they observed that babies from hospice who received no affection or attention, even if they were healthy, ended up dying, out of marasm, of malnutrition. The lack of affection brought them into depression and they stopped eating. On the contrary, we know that attention, tenderness, caresses, a friendly look, contact, heal, and this is so at any age, in any country, in any town, in any city. We live more connected and interconnected than ever thanks to technology, but the easier the contact the more loneliness hurts. That's why I want to remember an initiative that launched Xavier Trias in 2014 as mayor of Barcelona, the program Vincles, Links, so that older people who lived alone will come into contact with other people and create their support network through a tablet. It was one way to say to them, "Don't be alone. The Vincles project was abandoned by the Colau government temporarily, then resumed because it was and is very necessary, and one of the associations that worked on it was Friends of the Great Gent. It has also promoted today's initiative alongside Arrels, Avismón, Caritas, Red Cross, Les PetitsFrères des Pauvres, Roure, Som Base, Federació Catalana del Voluntariat, La Fatec, la Taula del Tercer Sector. They had the idea, which they put forward in a congressional appearance, that all groups - all - presented an initiative for the Congress to urge the Government to call upon the United Nations to proclaim the right to affective accompaniment, the right of people to relate and to be treated with affection in order to combat unwanted chronic loneliness. But today more than ever they need us all, because the PSOE presented this proposal alone, but today they need us all. And I am here to ask, please, that this proposal be approved unanimously, by each and every one of the people who live feeling alone; by people with home and without affection; by people without people and without home; by people who live alone right now, away from their country. And as they say in Liverpool: You'll Never Walk Alone. Don't be alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u105	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to its discussion in plenary a non-legislative proposal of these which is very difficult not to support because it is obvious and obvious, but not less necessary. Thanks to social entities in Catalonia like Son Base, we are increasingly sensitive and empathetic with emotional accompaniment. In recent years, as a society, we have become aware of the importance for human beings to relate, not be isolated, to have contact with others in a free, bilateral, direct, respectful and consensual manner. While it is true that from different administrations, with the essential impetus of civil society associations and organizations, there are increasingly different public campaigns and policies aimed at ensuring DA+ emotional support, it is also true that we need greater coordination at the institutional level and greater impact at the international level. That is why we announce our vote in favour of the initiative and support that at the United Nations we proclaim the right of people to the DAn emotional accompaniment as an expansion of human rights. Cross-cutting in all public policy, but especially in the area of social rights, it is absolutely necessary to have a gender perspective. In this case, and according to INE data, of the approximately 4.7 million people living alone in the Spanish State, more than 2 million are over 65 years of age and the majority are women. These figures do not in themselves explain the phenomenon, for one must understand the problem well, which is not loneliness as a whole, but the unwanted chronic loneliness, which affects especially older people and women. In a world in which life expectancy continues to grow, it is important to anticipate problems and make global commitments. In Catalonia, for example, we have some good practices of an experience that was born in my territory, in the Terra Alta, and that is now already referenced throughout the country, throughout Catalonia, which is the project Envelliment Kilometer 0, which has the support of the contracte program of the Generalitat de Catalunya. It is an opportunity for the local world, because it is bet by an administration close to the citizenry and, above all, it is an opportunity for the people and the elderly. This Program, the Envelliment Kilometer 0, has different objectives that I'm going to name you without going into detail. It has as its basic pillars community action and active ageing; the generation of proximity services that help older people to continue living in their homes; innovation, flexibility and improved access and accessibility to services using, for example, the technology that works in virtual care modalities and also integrated network care, a network with all the agents who have to work for it, all the departments of the Government of the Generalitat and also the regional councils, the municipalities, the entities and - as it could not otherwise be - volunteering. It is a project that prioritizes people and puts their attention at the centre, and it is a work, as I said, also cooperative. Before I finish, I would like to devote the last seconds of my speech to entities and organizations that ensure the rights of individuals. In the case of the affective accompaniment DA + I would like to greet the members of SomBras who accompany us today in the Chamber, but also others who work tirelessly as the Fundació Arrels, Amics de la Gent Gran, Avismón. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Because being alone can be okay when it's a personal decision, but it can never be lonely. Let us work together to achieve this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u107	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, with this proposal you show that your goodness has no limits, and you will forgive me, but neither will your hypocrisy. You intend to raise the flag of the project of an association that intended to fight against loneliness, with the aim that by approving this GNP unanimously in Congress we can come to the UN and ensure that the right not to be alone is considered a universal right and that it is proclaimed that all people have the right to be related, to be treated with affection, to feel accompanied and that this affective relationship between the equals is free, bilateral, direct, respectful and consented. We truly share that no one should be alone, that no one should feel alone and that, indeed, we are faced with one of the most serious problems of our time. But do you know, ladies and gentlemen, where you are most likely not to feel alone, to be treated with affection, to live with one another and to have that which in such a resounding and ideological way you call a relationship between the same, affective, free, bilateral, direct, respectful and consenting? That place is family, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] There is no better place to feel accompanied, loved and cared for than a family; in the family there is no loneliness, it is in the family where one learns to love and to be loved, to care and to be cared for. The family is the only place where there is unconditional love and yet the family has always been the great forgotten for you. That is why I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that your goodness and hypocrisy have no limits, because you invent new rights to hide the evil you have done by keeping families from the centre of all your policies, because you do the opposite of what you say and set qualities and feelings contrary to those that you show when you talk about fighting loneliness, forgetting the family. You, who have endeavoured to destroy the family as the basic nucleus of society; who have encouraged one-person households and single-parent families, without thinking about their future; who have normalized the affective relationships of using and throwing, who call us to end our days alone; who have seen birth crumbling, leaving our families without a future; who promote abortion, so that children who grow our families are not born, and euthanasia as the best solution for the terminally ill who suffer loneliness; you, Your Honor, have told us here a real story of the loneliness that these people suffer and to which you only offer a solution. [[Applauds]] You, who inoculate the hatred of the man, making it difficult for couples; you tell women who do not need anyone to be happy, that it is better to come home alone and drunk, that having many children is a delay; you, who are going to let children without a diagnosed gender disorder mutilate their bodies, making them chronically ill for their whole life, and their life in the chronicle of an announced loneliness, because they can never have biological children; you, who allow children who are illegal immigrants to separate from their families, to come to our country, condemning them to the worst of loneliness, which is the loneliness of uprooting, which cuts off the affective bonds of the place where they were raised, away from their own; you are the ones who now come to reassure their consciences with empty declarations of intentions, who will not serve anything if you remain alone in that. [[applause]] In Spain two million elderly people live alone, and more and more are found days or even weeks after they have died, without anyone missing them, in the indifference of an increasingly dehumanized society. No one should be forced to leave their country alone. No old man should end up dying alone. No child or young person should come home every day from school or college and find that there is no one to ask him how he has gone. And, of course, no one should have to give up forming a family. We all need to share our time, to be heard, to feel that we care about someone, to know that we will never be alone, and we all know, we all know, that there is no better cure for loneliness than the family. So, what is the point of proclaiming a right for every need that we are unable to satisfy? Why is that effort to seek so far away what we have so close to? Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need free, bilateral, direct, respectful and consensual emotional relations. What we need are families, families in which we feel loved and accompanied, families in which parents care for their children since they come into the world and in which children care for their parents until they leave, surrounded by affection and respect. [[Applauds]] You foster the family, you support the family. Make sure that families have the resources they need to care for their children, their elders, their sick, and I assure them that we will fight loneliness much better than with the proclamation of new rights that it would not be necessary to proclaim if we put the family where it deserves, which is at the heart of all our policies. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mrs Guerra, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u109	President, we are working on a compromise text with Foro Asturias and Unidad Podemos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u110	Thank you very much. So we will wait for that transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u111	We shall now proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Central Executive in order to articulate in a more agile and effective manner the distribution of European funds, including the part relating to loans amounting to some EUR 80 billion that the Spanish Government is expected to request before the end of the year. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u112	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. The European Union, as a result of the pandemic, agreed to provide large-scale financial support to implement reforms and investments in the Member States for a dual purpose, that of mitigating the economic and social effects of the pandemic and making the economies of the European Union more sustainable, much more resilient and better prepared for the challenges posed by ecological and digital transitions. Thus, the recovery plan has been established as the main economic policy of the Government to function as a countercyclical lever to drive the economy in the short term, address major structural changes in the medium term and transform the growth model towards a sustainable and resilient one. It is a complex plan, in which reforms were designed and the distribution of funds between ministries and autonomous communities was agreed, with a timetable for implementation for the first package of funds in the form of grants of around 70 billion for the 2021-2023 triennium. However, after more than a year and a half since the approval of the recovery and resilience plan - and we said so in the inquiry - doubts arise both about its implementation and its impact on the real economy, despite the fact that today, and as a result of the approval of the addendum, we have again given certain data, yes, of commitments, which, I regret to say, again, are not to be implemented. Therefore, we continue to doubt its implementation and its impact, because the design of the plan has not counted with the autonomous communities, which has partially prevented its implementation, because the actions do not conform to their particularities, and even because there were actions that were already materialized and executed by the autonomous communities themselves with their regular budgets. Therefore, it is a unilateral and centralized plan, which then really hard to fit into the reality on which it is intended; a plan in which the main instrument to transform the economy is based on the so-called PERTE, tractor projects in specific areas but which have not just taken off, since most of the public investment committed to them is still unimplemented. In addition, they are PARTI that require excessive bureaucratic procedures and very restrictive implementation deadlines, which, of course, are discouraging the economic fabric. Moreover, the design of the PERTE, as it predates the current economic situation, has not been adapted to the new context of uncertainty, inflation and increased funding, which makes companies discourage themselves from applying for them. In addition, the rise in interest rates is forcing SMEs to review their investment plans, because the profitability figures for each project have changed. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u114	We recognize an advance in the calls of the PERTE, but the fact is that their implementation presents important barriers, as I have said, especially for SMEs. The data available to us continue to confirm that the funds do not arrive with the speed due to the companies. Moreover, both the implementation rate and its impact on GDP so far has been lower than expected, despite, as I have already said, the data announced today. They talk about amounts committed, but, of course, they are data that differ from what comes to us from companies, but also from the data offered by the CEO or even institutions like the Sareb. All this is because we still do not have certain data on the actual implementation of the funds, first, because there is no monitoring on this, and, second, because neither is the platform for the centralisation of calls and control of European funds functioning. All of these issues, at least to my group, raise doubts about the progress of the plan, the confidence in its planning and process, its impact on the economy and, of course, its ability to address major structural and economic model changes. On the other hand, this plan involves a part relating to the addition, the part relating to the credits, to request 80 billion euros; an addition whose design should serve to improve and rectify what has not been correct. If, in addition, these funds are set up as an engine for mobilizing public investment and drivers of public-private collaboration, they will also require a well-designed adjunct, taking into account regional criteria, as recommended by Europe, for autonomous communities to participate in designs and reforms that are appropriate and connected to the economic and productive fabric. Of course, we understand that it is an essential complement, a key milestone in strengthening and driving that recovery plan. It is true that this addendum has been presented to us today, but the autonomous communities - I am sorry to tell you - do not have an answer to the proposals put forward. Look, they talk about a sustainability fund for the autonomous communities, but does this fund respond to what they have presented? Are the regional criteria in it? What is the governance of that addendum? All these issues make it necessary and urgent for us to ensure the management, channelling and implementation of the Next Generation funds so that they reach the economy and have the impact for which they have been planned. Therefore, we must adapt all these mechanisms designed so far. That is why, and in view of what the autonomous communities but also the companies are demanding, my group believes it is necessary, and this is what we set out in the motion, that the Government, on the one hand, should, in particular, facilitate the administrative procedures concerning the PERTE; that the requirements should be relaxed on the basis of State aid, as Germany has done; that the implementation deadlines should be relaxed, also as Germany has stated in the addendum which it presented this Monday to Europe; and that an agile process of calls should be adopted and even that the required guarantees should be relaxed, in particular so that SMEs can participate in the PERTE in a much more agile way and be able to return the guarantees, depending on the milestones which they are meeting. The reality is very clumsy, because you can't manage a plan with an obsolete administrative model, which has overstretched the management capacity of the Administration, without making certain procedures more flexible for the administrations. And to show a button, when the government is apparently talking to some auditors to untie these funds, and also because there are reports in some ministries that they are saying there is a slowdown in the funds. Therefore, as we say, it is necessary to adapt the management model of the plan to the challenges posed by a new model, which involves multi-sectoral participation and involves both the public and private sectors. On the other hand, with regard to the addendum, we believe that at least the Government, although it has designed and submitted it today, must respond within one month to the proposals put forward by the Autonomous Communities, because the forms are also important. We call for regional criteria to be incorporated into the addendum to be presented by the Government to Europe, as well as the resources of the REPowerEU. Although the truth is that today we have already seen that the addendum is designed, as I said, we do not know if there are regional criteria and if we have met what the Autonomous Communities say. And we also request that the addendum articulate means for private or public-private enterprises and organisations to access financial instruments to facilitate the implementation of these projects and consider the possibility of creating a MRR fund or bonus to finance transformative projects of a public nature, a kind of sustainable bond, with the difference that, instead of going to markets, MRR loans would be used to raise financing, a financing that we believe should not be counted as indebtedness of the autonomous communities provided it is for investment projects in the areas set by Europe. Finished. I ask for your vote in favour, because, if we really are aware of what the opportunity presented by Europe to reform the economic model implies, it is necessary to redefine the design of the PERTE to address deficiencies and shortcomings, as well as for the autonomous communities to participate, which I think is already a little difficult in this addition, in order to adapt these loans to their social and economic reality, because otherwise they will hardly contribute to the objective sought with the funds.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u115	Mrs. Sagastizabal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u116	I'm on my way. What good is it to preach with co-governance if then it shines because of its absence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u118	'I wish there was full democratic normality in Spain, but if there isn't, it's precisely what the PP has done to Spanish democracy.' Paul Iglesias, February 2021. 'Part of the judges in this country have stood up as opposition to the coalition government'. Irene Belarus, last month. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u119	Quiet, please. Mrs Muñoz, I ask you, please, to focus on the question of the motion we are debating.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u120	Today I rise to this rostrum concerned about whether this is the last time the Constitutional Court allows me to do so. It is difficult for me to focus on parliamentary work, because it gives me the feeling that we continue as automatons, maintaining a fiction of democratic normality, while outside there there are PP judges who decide for all of us and ourselves, legitimate representatives of the Spanish people. [[Applauds]] So let's talk about democracy, that democracy also expands with more rights, and let's talk about the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and the Next Generation EU funds. Let us remember again how we have been pioneers in Europe at all stages of its development. Spain maintained leadership from the very beginning. [[The Lord]] We were the first country to see its recovery plan approved and to receive the first disbursement of funds, we were also the first country to receive the second disbursement, and on 11 November Spain became the first Member State to request the third disbursement of the Transformation, Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, worth EUR 6 billion, linked to the fulfilment of 29 milestones and objectives, to which has been implemented during the first half of 2022. In fact, the coalition government has already approved and implemented spending programmes in excess of €43.6 billion, 83% of those planned for 2021 and 2022. We continue to advance together and in close collaboration with the autonomous communities and local entities through sectoral conferences and ongoing dialogue to identify sectoral priorities and strategic projects. In fact, the Autonomous Communities manage 54% of the recovery plan funds to deploy investments in their areas of competence: housing, sustainable mobility, promotion of renewables, restoration of ecosystems, renovation of public buildings, education, employment and vocational training, inclusion and social services, among others. We thank the PNV for the constructive tone of this motion, and from the United Nations Parliamentary Group We can share some of the concerns that are reflected in it. We are aware that the need for speed and the extraordinary contexts in which these funds are being implemented pose a constant challenge, and we are always open to receiving opinions and reviewing implementation to make it more efficient and equitable. We will continue to work to make this happen and to continue to lead the economic, energy and social transformation of our territories so that they can face the new challenges presented to us, but we will do so without forgetting that the achievements of this coalition Government are countless and relevant in our international context. I will now talk about my land because it is the one I know best and with the intention that it will serve as an example of how the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and Next Generation funds have been, are and will continue to be useful to their people. The coalition government has already allocated the Balearic Islands a total of EUR 1020 million of these funds in 2022, a figure that almost quadruples the investment allocated in 2021, which was EUR 288 million. The funds have been channelled through more than 35 successful aid calls, which have benefited more than nine hundred participants, including more than 125 local authorities and public bodies, more than 105 companies and research centres and more than 620 people. Among them, they highlight more than 230 million to boost the energy transformation of the Balearic Islands, 199 million for innovative projects in renewable energy, self-consumption and electric mobility, 50 million to improve tourism competitiveness, 16 million for residential rehabilitation, 28 million for the implementation of environmental gold in Palma and the public bicycle rental service in Eivissa, 19 million for the Vocational Training Modernization Plan and 5 million for the Corresponding Plan. Projects of particular interest to the new depurator of Palma, the works of the Eivissa parador and the inauguration of the renewable hydrogen plan in Lloseta have also been promoted. We continue, because social welfare and democracy depend on it, because we live on it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u121	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u122	President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have to discuss the implementation of the Next Generation funds, in this case in a PNV motion, as a result of an urgent inquiry by the Minister of Finance. We are in a kind of dialogue of the deaf, in which analysts, institutions, employers, autonomous communities, local corporations and parliamentary groups, with the exception of those who make up the Government and some others who support it in exchange for anyone knows what, we demand information, execution, transparency and participation, and we are answered that there is everything, but, in reality, they give us nothing. Last week, from this rostrum and in support of the validation of the Royal Decree Law 19/2022, the Vice-President Calviño was accused of mentioning in her presentation the important modification of the Royal Decree Law 36/2020, which regulates the procedure for the execution of the funds. It was criticized because in that royal decree law they are explicitly recognizing the problems that are being faced for the effectiveness of the calls for grants, which are becoming deserted or with a very low degree of execution. But nothing, because they are installed in which everything goes very well, that the degree of execution is very high - we have seen it say again today to Vice President Calviño - and that there is nothing to worry about. But the fact is that that's not true, that the degree of execution is very low. Otherwise, of what in the next year's budgets should 2023 be allowed to incorporate the 2022 authorizations? Or are there no accounts of how many of the EUR 31 billion that Spain has already received have reached the real economy? We have very little information, and what we have is completely inadequate. And, as the PNV spokesman pointed out in his question, the effect on the economy, on national GDP, the ultimate objective of these funds, is virtually non-existent, even if they are determined to deny it. Normal, because the money stays in the public coffers, at least accountingly. In this regard, it is very worrying the news we met yesterday that one of the main Spanish companies listed on the New York stock exchange has presented itself to the second warning by him more than likely to delay the receipt of the Next Generation funds, of which it would benefit. That's a big mouth. And what a sign that what they're telling us is science fiction, protected by lack of information! We agree with the analysis made by the proposing group of the motion and with the problems it raises, which, on the other hand, are the same as we have repeatedly pointed out since we refused to validate the Royal Decree Law 36/2020. He looked like he was coming, and he came. And we are very surprised by the answer of Minister Montero, María Jesús, when she admits, without blush, that she does not exercise that coordinating role that grants her the regulations, that she has the same problems as the coordinating advisers in the autonomous communities, since it is the different ministries that relate to the councils, since they are the ones that decide at the different sectoral conferences. And so each to his own. Didn't we stick to what it was all about? The Royal Decree Law 36/2020 created a sectoral conference for the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which, chaired by the Minister of Finance, should serve for coordination in the implementation of the plan. To date, it has met three times, and none has fulfilled that task. On the other hand, we have been repeatedly answered that the information platform for the implementation of the funds, the famous COFFEE, which should have been launched in November last year, is now in place. And the minister knows it's a lie, but last week at the interpellation she repeated it again. By the way, Mrs Montero, does not trivialise and laugh at the control we demand, because we know what we are saying, and you, although you will never admit it, also know it. And now comes the addition - it seems that they have approved it today - 77 billion grants, 84 billion financial assets and just over 2 billion for the REPower, and we are caught up with the duties without doing and with the same vices as in the first stage: centralization in decisions and lack of information and participation. You can understand that we are very concerned, because the Spaniards need this huge amount of funds to be applied effectively and efficiently so that many of our economic problems, those of now and those of the future, are solved. As I have pointed out, we might agree with the motion, but we have tabled an amendment that is fully compatible with its objective, which we believe complements the text presented. We hope that the proposing group will accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u123	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Durán Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u124	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, we agree that European funds are a great opportunity for our country. That the European Union has injected billions of euros into the economy is an important demonstration that we have learned from the mistakes made in the past, with the previous financial crisis, because this crisis could not be addressed with cuts, austerity policies or social protection, as was done in the years of Mariano Rajoy's government. That our country has a transfer package that exceeds EUR 27 billion is a great news, but at the same time we have to recognise that its implementation in three years is an unprecedented challenge. It is a challenge for us to be able to digest these amounts of resources by the municipalities, autonomous communities and the Government of Spain. But it is true that, despite the difficulty of things, all administrations are doing reasonably well, and Spain is the country of the European Union that is requesting disbursements first, which means that the European Commission is verifying that we are meeting the milestones and targets that have been set. And the management of European funds is also being done with the participation and collaboration of the Autonomous Communities, because all distribution criteria are agreed within the framework of the new body of cooperation with the Autonomous Communities. With regard to the addendum, it has also been contacted with the autonomous communities and local entities. The first Vice-President has been in constant contact with them and today the draft addendum has been presented, within the framework of the dialogue process maintained by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance for its preparation. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, we have tabled an amendment, and we hope to reach an agreement with your parliamentary group. Nor can we forget that all these resources have a clear and common road map for investments in ecological transition, digital transformation and social cohesion, investments that will boost our country's growth and progress. By the way, it is fair to recognise the role of our President, Pedro Sánchez, for the European Union to have approved these funds. [[Applauds]] And it's been a long time since Spain had the leading role it has played in Europe today. And you, who say you love your country, should feel proud that the President of your country - because he is the President of all Spanish and Spanish - is today leading the European Union's policy. [[Rumors]] And he's also leading our country's policy. That is why I would like to say to the right-wing bench that you are wasting your time campaigning to point out to the Socialist Members; you are wasting your time because we are very proud to be part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which supports this government. [[Applauds]] You are wasting your time because we are very proud to support the first coalition government, a government that, shortly after being elected, had to face the biggest health crisis the world has had in over a hundred years and now faces the effects of a territorial war in Europe, and has done so by giving unprecedented social coverage and leaving no one behind. We are very proud of the ERTE, which saved hundreds of thousands of jobs; of the labour reform, which has reduced to a minimum the temporality and increased the indefinite contracts; proud of the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage; proud of our commitment also for education; proud of creating a society that respects and protects our elders, who, at last, after so many years of struggle, have decent pensions, which is revalued year after year, without losing purchasing power. In short, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this legislature, despite the difficult times we have had, this parliamentary group and this government have fought to defend the interests of all Spaniards and Spaniards, and that will always be worth it. We continue in the struggle for a more just world to be possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] It is not in the Chamber. For the same group, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u126	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not think we can agree more with the motion presented today by the Basque Nationalist Party: in the delay in reaching the funds to the companies, in the rigidity of the rules established for the management by the autonomous communities, in the lack of real participation of the autonomous communities, because I believe that some autonomous communities, with full certainty, would have contributed a lot to the procedures. In Cantabria we are directly affected mainly in the industrial sector, and this does not mean that there has been a fluid dialogue and good communication between the teams of the Ministry of Industry and those of the Council of the Government of Cantabria itself, but it is true that the final receptivity to some of our proposals has been very limited. I think this is the same thing that has happened to our neighbours in the Basque Country, in the Basque Nationalist Party. I'm going to go over some problems. The design of the programmes is not attractive to most companies, as demonstrated by the limited number of callees. I am not going to repeat the implementation figures, the rapporteur has already explained them and this is being said. Investments are largely being used for new projects from external actors. It is good to attract foreign investment, but first we must support the existing fabric, which is anchored in the territory, and aid, in many cases, is less interesting than aid from the autonomous communities themselves. For example, the main aid for the deployment of electric vehicles in Cantabria was not PART VEC, but was aid from the Industry Council itself. There is a huge delay in the agri-food PART, in the naval PAST, in the semiconductor PART. Today we are seeing the great problem we have in the port of Santander, with thousands of cars trapped precisely because of this lack. And I also want to insist on the decarbonisation PART, as I had occasion to do in our motion on industry in general and in particular on Solvay. There are other PERTE that have gone better, where it has been territorialized in the same Ministry of Industry. Those relating to the tourism area can say that they have been very successful and we call on the Government to territorialize the approach, to bring the funds available to the autonomous communities to a large extent in a coordinated manner with them and to make the requirements more flexible. I believe that we are all aware that there is very little time left for 31 December 2023, that these recovery funds must be implemented and, if we do not release them on these dates, I am very afraid that we will have to return some of these funds, as is already happening. The Government is not here today, but we urge those who support the Government to see if they can put some pressure on it and put the batteries in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u127	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u128	Good afternoon again. Thank you, President. Today it is 21 December and on 30 December we will have two years of approval in this House of the Royal Decree Law 36/2020, which continues to sleep in a drawer, and I am very pleased that today we have the opportunity to discuss the situation in which the European funds are located in our country, because in these last weeks, in which we all have to take stock of the situation in which we find ourselves, we see - as I said - that the Royal Decree Law 36/2020, for the modernization of the public administration and for the implementation of the resilience plans, remains kept in a drawer, which the Government continues to paralyse, extending the deadline for amendments over and over again. But, come on, this is already the custom of this government and it is the custom of this legislature. A royal decree, I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, which approved the majority of this House, which came forward by the abstention of VOX and also by its vote in favour, Your Honor of the PNV. We have already warned and proposed an amendment to the whole with alternative text and the creation of an independent office for the management, control and accountability of European funds. The intention was that this office, composed of private sector and public sector technicians, with experience in managing funds and projects, could identify those sectors and projects with greater tractor capacity. In addition, our proposal two years ago was for that independent office to discharge to the public administration all the bureaucracy necessary to carry out the mobilization of funds. That is to say, moving from an administration in which the burden of proof is borne by the citizen or enterprise who requests, to one in which the administration itself has the burden of proof in monitoring the proper use of resources. I will not remind you of what you voted for two years ago. What happens is that we are very clear about the catapardism played by the government: changing everything so that everything remains the same; a supposed profound reform of the administration, which actually leaves our administration in the same situation as it was: shortage of personnel, excessive unnecessary procedures, same bottlenecks and, consequently, a much less than desirable execution of European funds. According to the CEO, this execution remains in a rickshaw 11.5 % of the funds allocated to our country and, therefore, well below that transformative capacity of our economy that they should have. All this, moreover, bearing in mind that this concerns only the funds mobilised, but that it does not necessarily mean that they actually reach businesses and the real economy, as many of your ladies and gentlemen have so far denounced from this rostrum. For example, when we questioned the figures of the Digital Kit a few days ago in the budget appearances, the Government pointed out to us that it was not being properly managed, even calling us alarmists. Even the opposition groups looked at us with disbelief. The fact is that the implementation of this programme, which is so necessary to develop the digital potential of our productive fabric, is being mobilised wrongly, because it does not take into account the real needs of companies and does not take into account the appropriate experts. In short, it makes a splash so that it simply counts as mobilized funds, but it is only to throw the money and take care of both the citizenry and the companies themselves who need that help and see how it is wasted on something that does not bring them anything or is necessary to them. I'm done, President. We agree with the initiative proposed here today by the PNV because it is basically what we have always advocated. Time, unfortunately, has given us reason and, indeed, the Government had no intention of allowing improvements to the royal decree through the amendments. We don't get caught anymore. We hope that at least this will help the next one to think a little better about their vote, because their vote, ladies and gentlemen, ends up condemning families and businesses to assume that European funds are not going to be the social and economic revulsion that our country needed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u129	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, the two points of this initiative. The first one talks about the necessary modifications to Royal Decree 36/2020, a royal decree that every time I rise to this rostrum I must remind you that it was approved thanks to the kindness and gratuitousness of VOX with the Government. That royal decree has led the Government to have its hands free two years later not to correct and properly implement the implementation of these funds. It is true that the LOSS surely are the most difficult part to execute. I am going to disagree again, even if it is not usual, with Mrs Muñoz, because I believe that the Digital Kit has resolved 53 000 applications positively, EUR 530 million, and it is precisely from the sections of the application of Next Generation funds that it has worked best, with more capillaryness. It was not easy to manage 200,000 applications and a quarter had been resolved favourably and with a permeability that small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people appreciated. Therefore, where we have problems is with the LOST. With regard to the second point, we also agree, although today, once again, the Council of Ministers has approved the addendum. Let us see how these additional 7 billion direct aid and over 70 billion financial aid are going to be processed. In any case, they have our vote in favour. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u132	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, of course, we are going to support your motion, as it cannot be otherwise, because what you are demanding and what you put forward today and put forward in your question last week is the same thing that we have said since Junts per Catalunya from the very beginning. The Honourable Counselor Giró has already stated that the Next Generation funds are not coming, that they arrive but little and that those arriving are not transformers. This is particularly worrying, above all, if we look at SMEs, which do not access them, in part, because of bureaucratic difficulties. As I suppose you will all have seen the announcement of the Next Generation funds made by the government in which it says: your dreams come true, as I told the minister at the time I tell you now that, with regard to these funds, my dream would be that these would come and really be transformative. What I do not believe, unfortunately, is that my dream will come true. The funds will come, above all, if they end up being implemented, and the execution capacity has always been a constant concern for us because, above all, Spain is the last country in the absorption rate of the structural funds, according to the official website of the European Commission in the period 2014/2020, which means that in each period Spain must return money, and we all know that commitment of expenditure, allocation or recognized obligation is not the same as execution, and that is where the real problem is, in the non-execution. It is said by the ministry that the addition will count on the proposals of the autonomous communities. With regard to the design of the Plan Spain Pode, Catalonia presented a series of proposals by PERTE that had been prepared by independent experts and were obviated. With this background, I do not see it clear that we should now trust that the Government will change its course of action, which we would love, but we do not see it very feasible. With the Next Generation the European Union makes it easier - it has been said - for the economies to be more resilient and better prepared, but for Spain I wonder if, seen as seen, this will be a missed opportunity. If the Government does not change procedure and attitude, perhaps, unfortunately, we will find ourselves faced with a missed occasion. On the contrary, perhaps we should ask ourselves whether Spain is accessing this feasible opportunity and whether it will actually take advantage of it. Whether it is taken advantage of or not depends, in part, on the government, is true, but also - and it has been said before - it could depend on this House. Let's see if once and for all the extension of amendments to the Royal Decree Law 36/2020, from which come many of the evils that since December 2020 are revealed. Ladies and gentlemen, today that we are talking so much about attacks on democracy and parliamentarianism, are these sine die extensions to the bill not also an attack on parliamentarianism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u133	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u134	Good afternoon. This motion cannot seem more appropriate to us to close the year economically, a year that will undoubtedly be remembered for an incipient post-pandemic recovery that was interrupted by Russia's investment in Ukraine and the consequent price crisis. Inflation, which has reached unusually two figures this year, has led all governments - state, autonomous and local - to take extraordinary measures to prevent the invasion from raking with the middle and working classes, and it has not been an easy task. Score: It's not being an easy task. The Esquerra Parliamentary Group has been here to negotiate, to propose improvements, to fight them by militating on utility. Obviously, they have not been our measures or our model. That is why, among other reasons, we demand a state of our own. However, we cannot allow the current inflation crisis to set aside very important debates that we have been dragging forward since the end of 2020. I am referring, of course, to the discussion of an easy, simple management of the Next Generation funds. Let us make a more subsidiary management, closer to reality. I wish Mrs Sagastizabal better luck with her motion than the one with the non-legislative proposal that this Member, without much success, was advocating in the same direction this morning in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. It is not a new debate. You are well aware of the views of this Member and of our parliamentary group, since we have repeated this since we had the opportunity. We believe that the best management is that which is exercised from the territory itself, which is the best connoisseur of its own economic and social reality. The Spanish Government was wrong in adopting - as has been recalled, with the support of VOX - a centralist position when it comes to making decisions about the management of European funds, and time has given us every reason. Self-congratulation, the absence of self-criticism from the PSOE spokesperson makes us nothing optimistic. This morning we are discussing a crucial problem that we are encountering, and that is that the millions of euros of the PARTS are not reaching the productive fabric, exception made - Mr Bel is right - of the Digital Kit. The question is: what are billions of euros for if we are not able to channel and execute such an investment? [[Applauds]] One example: the Spanish Government approved on 13 July 2021 the PERTE to develop the electric vehicle, 3 billion. How many of those $3 billion have been distributed? We didn't get to 30%. Do you really think it's efficient? Not efficient or effective. Are there people old enough in the room to remember José María García, that genius of the last century who used to say: 'not a bad word, not a good action'? That portrays his sense of governance. [[Applauds]] In the addendum there will be more of the same. In order to ensure a greater degree of efficiency of European funds and to ensure that they successfully reach the entire productive fabric, it is essential that the Autonomous Communities can truly manage the calls of the PERTE. That is why we welcome and applaud this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u136	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the PNV criticizes the government's management, but little. We know that they are very united by the bonds of mutual interest in voting and tolling. If what the PNV asked was positive and would benefit the nation as a whole, it would be acceptable, but you always sweep for your region no matter what happens in the rest of Spain, thus generating huge gaps in inequality between the Spanish. You have privileges that we do not enjoy most of the Spaniards, and that is that those historic rights, which are very old, suit you when it comes to claiming resources paid by all the Spaniards, but if it comes to sharing, never. What is clear is that European funds must be part of Spain's economic drive project and not of seventeen different projects that serve to calm the insatiable hunger for separatism and nationalism. As the representative of Esquerra said, you should have been here this morning in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, because the Socialist MEP, Mrs Nasarre, said that the Government supported the non-law proposal of Esquerra Republicana calling for absolute and absolutist management of the electric vehicle by the Autonomous Communities, something similar to what you request, when it is necessary to stress that precisely the Autonomous Communities have received from the funds disbursed by the General Administration of the State 65 %, a total of 11 578 million euros, of which the Autonomous Communities themselves will have to inform, logically. Mrs Nasarre has said of this proposal by Esquerra Republicana that they agree on the substance, but that with a month's delay, which is what the proposer is asking, they do not give them time to legislate. As you can understand, let them say that in a month they don't give them time to legislate on a GNP when in a week they want to strike the Constitution, another on the Penal Code and two organic laws with a proposal for a law, it's as if they were trying to take the Spaniards' hair, which is insulting and embarrassing. [[applause]] Since the last forty-eight hours have seen the expression 'unprecedented events are taking place in our country', I would like to take this opportunity to say that 50 billion unexecuted European funds do not have precedents. [[Applauds]] A royal decree that has been being processed as a bill for two years, with 77 extensions of time to amend, has no precedent. Of course, you are in a hurry to manage your interest, but not the interest of the Spaniards. The information provided by the Government through the website on the evolution and implementation of funds provides data until June, and when the minister comes here last morning, is that when they update it? I don't think this has any justification or precedent either. In short, the purpose of the PNV initiative we believe to be short-lived, seeks to obtain from the Government greater budgeting for its provinces under the recovery plan, being an initiative that, rather than contributing, does what it does to claim. The funds of the recovery mechanism, which should effectively be used to carry out investments in the public and private sectors to improve the productivity of the economy, are not being a lever for economic growth and their impact has been virtually zero in 2021, 0.7%, despite the government's announcement in loud voice that it would have an impact on GDP growth of 2.6. A clear opacity and lack of transparency in the implementation and fulfilment of the objectives, not counting that the private sector is expressing its discouragement and calls for greater agility and simplification in the procedures by also having excessive bureaucracy. The fate of the funds is being fundamentally public. By 2022 alone, EUR 12 566 million, 44% of the funds, will go to the public sector. In fact, the Ministry of Finance has launched, as you know, the COFFEE system, a management tool for the achievement of milestones and targets defined in the recovery plan, which is 18 months late. Finally, with regard to the electric vehicle PART, we already know that the Government announced it on a drum and platter and has not had any success. 877 million have been mobilized. Regarding the preparation of the addendum, Minister Calvino said in her last appearance on the Commission that they had taken into account the Autonomous Communities. I believe that this PNV initiative can be your alibi for what you have already negotiated in dark rooms to come out later, because you are the shadow behind the government in everything and for all those who overshadowed Pedro Sánchez by supporting his motion of censure. From VOX we will continue working - and ending - to stop Sánchez's coup against democracy, state institutions, and firm in the defense of the rule of law, the unity of Spain and the equality of all Spaniards. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u138	We're working on it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u139	All right. Thank you. - THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP ON THE NEED TO REFORM THE FINANCING OF SMALL MUNICIPIES TO CORREGING THE ENDEMIC INCREASE IN THE MODEL OF TAXALITY AND FINANCING OF LOCAL FACTS IN VACATED SPAIN. [[LORD GIUTARTE GIMENO]] [[File number 173/000184]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u140	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno, on the need to reform the financing of small municipalities in order to correct the endemic aggravation in the model of taxation and financing of local haciendas in emptied Spain. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the local funding system in Spain contains very important problems and shortcomings that need to be addressed and resolved without delay or delegation, as has been the case for decades. Firstly, the local government has very little weight in all public expenditure, as it accounts for only 12.80 % of the total government expenditure. If we compare this participation with that which it has in the states of our environment, we see that the local entities in Spain have just over half of the resources they have in the European countries. Secondly, funding, especially for small rural municipalities, is insufficient for their own skills and those that are inappropriate by delegation. Thirdly, the financing of the State and the autonomous communities for local estates benefits large urban municipalities and harms small rural municipalities. It is a conclusion that is supported by experts who corroborate the Ministry of Finance's own data. Surely, there are different causes for this situation, but we can come to evidence. For more than 70 years, through local funding, the state has been giving priority to public spending in large cities. In addition, some sectoral policies that are not included in local finance accounting have increased public spending. On the contrary, there has not been a similar treatment for municipalities in the rural environment and in unpopulated areas, so it seems reasonable that this orientation of public spending over such a long period of time has had its consequences, such as boosting the power of large cities and their carpets and, by absence, contributing to the deterioration of other areas, that is, of rural areas. Therefore, services and opportunities are very different for citizens depending on which of these two areas they live in. For these reasons, the financing of local finances and the institutional weakness of small and medium-sized rural municipalities have contributed to the depopulation that we all want to combat. [[Rumors]] The motion we bring defends a vision on the role of the importance of local administration radically different from that of today. The municipalities of small cities and rural municipalities cannot in any way be entities whose only action is limited to minimum services, without any consideration for their contribution to the welfare state, economic dynamism and territorial vertebration, precisely when the local entities are the Administration that can most contribute to social and territorial cohesion in the deprived areas and in the rural environment. It is therefore necessary to reform the instruments for financing local finances, in particular those relating to the distribution of State transfers, which must follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe. It is therefore essential, on the one hand, that the local funding system incorporate a principle of equalisation in the capacity to provide local public services offered by public administrations. Municipalities are the final nodes of the State and must contribute to equal opportunities among citizens, regardless of the place of residence, and act as a network of territorial vertebration, a network to which a residual role has been left. Thus, it is necessary to strengthen the role of these small municipalities in the vertebration of the territory and in the correction of the territorial crisis. Small municipalities must provide services that are able to fix and attract new neighbours. The Government must be aware of the over-financing of public funds received by large Spanish cities through the combination of different legal instruments and different policies and programmes in administrative areas other than the local government itself. To a large extent, this allocation of resources implies a reduction in what small municipalities in unpopulated areas perceive. As a result, the rural-urban social gap is growing by contrasting the living conditions of public services provided in different territories. On the other hand, small and medium-sized rural municipalities also play an essential role in the care of the territory and its maintenance and improvement. Territory and landscape are common goods, a value for the whole country whose composition and management is closely linked to these municipalities, especially to the local administration of the small municipalities, but there is no strategy with a line in the public budgets that supports or finances at least partially these actions. [[Rumors]] The motion before the House proposes, first, to increase the expenditure of local authorities to reach up to 20% of public expenditure; secondly, to distribute it more efficiently and rationally to small municipalities, so that they become active agents for social and territorial cohesion and the fight against depopulation. There is a need for structural reform in the distribution of the total expenditure of public administrations, as well as updating the law on local finances. The aim is to achieve a financing system that increases state and autonomous transfers to these local estates, enables quality municipal services in small municipalities and also enhances the role of the local administration in territorial vertebration. Similarly, it is necessary to diversify the criteria applied for the distribution of their funds, considering not only the total population of each municipality, but also the need to strengthen the capacity of the local administration in those municipalities particularly affected by depopulation problems. In addition, it will be necessary to resort to formulas such as comarcas or similar, which allow for economies of scale in the provision of some public services. We therefore propose the creation of two public funds with different and complementary objectives, the principles of which govern all state and autonomous transfers. One, the public fund for basic local funding, which would manage 50% of state and autonomous transfers to meet the needs of the municipal budget, distributed with reference to the total population of each municipality, its capacity to collect and the tax effort applied. And, another, the public fund for the equalisation of local finances and for territorial cohesion, which would manage the other 50% of state and autonomous transfers, aimed at strengthening the budgetary and financial capacity of local administrations in municipalities in areas affected by depopulation. To strengthen this level of administration, to curb and reverse depopulation, as well as to contribute to territorial vertebration, the following objectives will prevail in the budgets of local entities. First, to finance quality services in municipalities in rural areas and to support municipal coordination processes. Secondly, recovery and modernization of economic activities. Third, to support municipalities with less than 25,000 inhabitants with the function of a district centre and with objective difficulties in fulfilling their competences. And, fourth, contribute to environmental sustainability and energy efficiency, housing policy and landscape quality. Similarly, a single transfer is proposed in 2024 from the central and autonomous administrations to small municipalities affected by depopulation, the amount of which represents a significant increase in transfers from the central administration over the 2022 financial year. [[Rumors]] Finally, it is necessary to adopt specific legislation for small municipalities, to review and improve the strengths of management and organization, and to strengthen their role as agents for territorial cohesion with quality municipal services...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u142	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u143	... by contributing to the welfare state and the economic dynamism of the rural environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u144	In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating a motion to correct the taxation and financing of rural municipalities that might well be proposed to improve local economies, but, now that we are in a Christmas spirit, I am sorry to say, Mr. Guitarte, that this motion that you are presenting is nothing more than a letter to the Wise Men of the East; a letter that translates into measures that, when you study them in a serious and consensual way, you understand that they are not possible. [[Rumors]] Let's go to the fact in question. You claim grievances with other municipalities and I, as mayor, agree with you, but I also tell you that talking about good management in a municipality is not just about financing. There, for example, you have failed to explain in your explanatory statement why in September 2020 you voted in favour of removing the remnants from the municipalities, together with the Socialist and United Podemos Group. Why? Why did they support their vote by taking away their neighbors' savings? Why remove the remnants from the mayors who had achieved them with so much effort? Can you tell what your goal was, besides contenting Sanchez? [[Applauds]] Thankfully, Mr Guitarte, that my parliamentary group was here to stop that assault that the Socialist Government wanted to carry out against our mayors by being your accomplices. They talk in their explanatory statement that the municipalities should receive more money from other administrations. Therefore, if you think - like me - that money is not unlimited, if the municipalities have more, as explained in your explanatory statement, the autonomous communities would have less. So what do we say, for example, to the health workers of Aragon? Because Lambán has already cut them wages and conditions at this time. And, for example, to education staff, what do we tell them? That is why I was telling you, Mr Guitarte, that it is not good to make proposals without having been really studied if you then intend to direct any of the public administrations. And speaking of responsibilities, I will tell you from the respect that you decided to give your vote to Sánchez to be President of the Government of Spain. It is therefore you and not others who should demand and compel Sanchez to put these measures into effect. I say this because you are being instrumental in the adoption of decrees and legislative initiatives by the Government which, unfortunately, are not bringing anything good to Spain or the province of Teruel, and no one should forget that. Given the situation we have today, we would understand that it will also be difficult for you today to sleep at night because of what you have caused with your vote in our country. So don't be surprised when more and more Turolenses tell them that you supported Sanchez in exchange for nothing. [[Rumors]] I'm going to give you several examples. Budgeted works have not been started in the general state budgets of 2018, for example, in N330. And what does it tell us, for example, about the A 68 in which only studies have been carried out in the last three years? And if we talk about the railway, can you tell us here today what has been driven by the cantabrian-Mediterranean axis that was not already in the general budgets of 2018? You have also allowed Vice-President Ribera, for example, to close the thermal power plant in Andorra and then to take it down. Or what about the Space Agency installation that was going to be in Teruel and that you, an afternoon like today and with a motion like this, sold all the Turolenses? Indeed, studying the newly approved general budgets, there is no more investment for Teruel than there was in 2018. However, you are approaching mayors of some municipalities in our province to tell them that, thanks to you, you have included amendments in the general budgets of 2023. I will give you a summary of the amendments to the general budgets of 2021. You have tabled 60 amendments, but only eleven were included in the general state budgets of 2021. Well, do you know how many amendments have stopped being implemented? You are. Is that serious, Mr. Guitarte? Lord Teruel's Spokesman Exists, with your heart in your hand, do you really feel satisfied with the work you have done all this time? I know that the elections are coming and that you have decided not to support the state's last general budgets because you are trying to make the Turolians believe that they no longer support this government, but it is already late. The Turolians don't believe them anymore. And I'm done, President. We will not stop working to improve our municipalities and there you will always have the cooperation of the People's Party. That is why we have tabled three amendments, which I hope, Mr Guitarte, can be considered...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u146	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u147	...and we do it with the greatest sense of responsibility and also with the experience of my colleagues, mayors like me from humble municipalities that we are very committed...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u148	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u149	... for giving our neighbors the best in our lives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u150	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u151	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Joint Group, Mr Guitarte, brings us a motion following an inquiry which contains a debate to be held in this House. In 2021 only 12% of public expenditure was spent on local government, well below 37% of regional funding and almost 50% of central government. We know that the participation of local governments in all of the state's revenues has barely increased in recent decades, while their spending and the skills they have had to cope with have not stopped increasing. We agree that the public spending of local administrations must grow and the current distribution must be changed, but we cannot deny that there is a direct link between this low local funding and depopulation. The current participation of municipalities in the State's income is based primarily on the number of inhabitants, which makes per capita financing in sparsely populated municipalities very poor and, therefore, we enter a vicious circle. This motion brings too concrete and specific reforms that we do not really know how the proposals embodied in it have been based or where they come from. For example, why increase local participation in state revenue to 20% and not to 15% or 25%? Why should the creation of public aid funds distributed at 50% rather than other types of funds or with another percentage distribution? We believe that this debate should be calmed down, it should be based on expert reports - which we actually already have, but which have never been listened to - and it should come into a deeper reform, with a law and with a plan to paralyse depopulation in these territories, not with a motion of this kind. [[Rumors]] We think that the depopulation of the rural environment is a growing problem - the data are there - and we believe that it is greatly aggravated by several things. First, because of the birth crisis that our country is experiencing progressively and that there is much more accused. And then, because of the global tendency to urbanize spaces, which leads to the abandonment of certain municipalities. We have to say that Spain is the second largest national territory in the European Union and has a population density below the Community average, with some regions that are even in rates comparable to those in Lapland, which is quite worrying. In addition, our country is the fourth in the European Union - after Estonia, Finland and Latvia - with more municipalities at risk of depopulation, with nearly 42.2% of the municipalities. What do we have to do? We need to tackle the root problem and work to ensure that the various variables that affect depopulation - not just local funding - improve and we can achieve this challenge that we propose. We know that since 2019 there have been general guidelines for the National Strategy against the Demographic Challenge, developed by the Government Commissioner against the Demographic Challenge, but we know objectively that the strategy is not working, because the problem is even more serious and its solution is more pressing at this time than when it was adopted. Why do we think it's not enough? Because it doesn't really end up getting into the bottom of the matter. From Citizens we have already presented a long time ago and have continued to present initiatives to improve the variables that directly affect depopulation, in addition to local funding, such as the use of public procurement as a tool for territorial development, the incorporation of specific support criteria for applicants for public subsidies in the territory, the adaptation of professional and economic administrative incentives in public employment in rural areas, the promotion of public-private collaboration for the development of projects in the face of the demographic challenge, the incorporation of demographic factors in the social responsibility of the private sector and many initiatives more than they seek is that people do not abandon those territories. We must give them the same opportunities, the same infrastructure and the same rights in health, education, etc., with the entire public administration. For all this, we will abstain from this motion, because we believe that there are so many things that should have become more general and should have been backed up by expert data. We also believe that the current demographic challenge strategy is failing, so we would have to get much more fully into this problem and continue to work to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u152	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u153	Thank you, President. Mr. Guitar, it's not to discourage you, but I'll explain something to you. Last week eleven years have passed since this server was part of these General Courts. Well, my first intervention in these General Courts-then in the Senate, accompanied by some of the people here - was an inquiry. I was mayor of Tortosa at the time and my first question to Minister Montoro was about local funding and the need for local funding reform. If you are well - when you can - read the content of the inquiry, it will surely be reflected in many of your approaches. What happened from there? That's what's going to discourage him. I have just arrived at the Courts, and I have tried to reach a consensus on the motion following an inquiry with the majority group, the People's Group, and with Minister Montoro, who I must say was directly involved. We agree that the Government would, within one year, submit a draft reform of the local finance law. A year! Eleven - ten have passed since the end of the compromise - several investiture - that is, only two finance ministers, a minister and a minister - and all the major groups in their electoral programmes - because since then I think we have had up to four different elections - have proposed to reform the law of local finance. The minister also said that the funding of local corporations would be reformed in this legislature, but she already knows how things are going. Since there is no situation for reforming the financing of the autonomous communities - gross error - there is no possibility of reforming local finances either. Therefore, we would agree on that. However, we cannot agree with some of the approaches of the motion, more than anything because they are not respectful of the competences of the different autonomous communities. [[The lady]] The financing system to be established in each autonomous community in relation to local corporations is the exclusive competence of each of the autonomous communities. Therefore, the transfers made by the Generalitat of Catalonia to the municipalities - scarce; subject also pending and not from the current government or the previous one, but from the previous one of the previous one - must be decided not by this House, but by the Parliament of Catalonia. This is therefore reason enough for us not to be able to support this initiative. [[Rumors]] You raise some ideas that are interesting and I myself have had the opportunity to theorize on different occasions regarding the need - in that I think it would be good if we at least agreed - for all the transfers that are made to the different local corporations to end up becoming one or two funds. From my point of view, there would have to be a state fund and each autonomous community to establish its autonomous fund and, at best, there would have to be a sufficiency fund and a leveling fund that must have different functions; you pose what a part of the public finance theory is holding. However, as we understand that the approach generates a clear competitive invasion, even sharing the philosophy and idea that you propose, we are not going to vote in favour, but we are not going to vote against it either and we are going to maintain a respectful abstention. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep a little silence, please. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u155	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Mr Guitarte, the solution to the under-financing of the local world in rural areas and the fight against depopulation go hand in hand with a more global view of the rural world. The Cork Declaration highlights the importance of maintaining an agricultural and rural policy in the European Union that promotes the economy, environmental management, biodiversity and social integration in rural areas. It also stresses the need to improve rural development through innovative, inclusive and sustainable solutions. This need is to value the wealth that is produced in the rural world. In the rural world, the food and raw materials that are then consumed in all areas, especially in urban areas, are produced without even considering where these foods come from and the work behind them. In the explanatory statement of his motion, he clearly explained the needs of rural areas and, in particular, the most deprived. It tells us about the services that can be accessed in rural areas and, yes, we see and know that they are really far inferior to those offered in large cities. The last paragraph of his presentation perfectly summarizes the current situation, but obvious the most important thing, which any councillor, mayor or mayor of a small population can explain in very detail. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u156	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Granollers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to follow the intervention of the speaker, Mrs Granollers. [[Pause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u157	Thank you, President. The solution is not only to increase economic resources to local governments, but also to ensure the human and technical means necessary to carry out the planned investments. What is it going to do for a city council to have the money to run a work if it does not have a secretary-interior to do the paperwork, the competition, the award and a long administrative work etc.? [[Applauds]] We are surprised that he does not mention this problem in his motion, because the mayors of the small municipalities no longer know how to act. Nor does it seem appropriate to condition the transfers of the budgets of the autonomous communities to the local world through a state law. The decision on the composition of budgets falls exclusively within the scope of its legislation. For these reasons, Mr. Guitarte, we will not support your motion. The motion is not well raised. We think that there are many solutions for the rural world, but only with economic resources transferred to the municipalities will we not solve the problem. The solution goes, as we have often explained, by decentralizing and democratizing participation in decision-making; ensuring basic public services: housing, health services, education, infrastructure, postal services and banking services; strengthening governance and strategic planning from municipalities; and reviewing the model of supra-municipal organization and management. In short, to break the policies of urban redundancy that have led to the disaster in rural areas. We must provide rural areas with more and better resources, empower municipalities and county councils as collaborative tools. We are talking, after all, about prioritizing investments with a strategic vision. So important should be a metro line in a big city that an efficient irrigation system in an agrarian area. In short, until we believe that investing in rural areas will ultimately benefit society as a whole, we will not solve the problem of the demographic challenge. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granollers. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr García Nieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u159	Thank you, President. Mr Guitarte, on behalf of the Confederal Group I represent, I would like again to convey to you the coincidences that we have with regard to most of the diagnosis that you make of the gravity of the depopulation that Spain suffers in municipalities separated from the major cities and capitals of the province. The motion that brings us to plenary focuses on the cause of local funding and the scant services provided as a counterpart in the unpopulated municipalities as the differential and maximal axis detonating that, far from curbing the flight of families from their land, they contribute to the further acceleration of the rate of emptiedness. Let me therefore briefly analyse the factors which, in my group's view, are more influencing this problem to continue to get worse. We find ourselves in a vicious circle from which it is difficult to get out: an ageing population, a shortage of services and endowments that promote culture and leisure for all ages, poor communication and the consequent lack of entrepreneurial attraction, which prevents the creation of employment in activities of greater added value than agriculture and traditional livestock. On the contrary, the health emergency, the result of the COVID, allowed us to obtain a new perspective, where we saw that it is possible to recover the appeal for families to see the repopulation of almost empty municipalities feasible. What happened? As confinement led companies to impose telework as the new productive reality and, by having at home the technological tools necessary to work, we discovered that the rural environment is compatible with our professional careers, studies, family life, etc. What have we done since then as a government, ladies and gentlemen? The Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, and the Ministry of Territorial Policy are working on a reform of Law 7/1985, which regulates the bases of the Local Regime, which was especially committed to the municipalities with a smaller population. It will be essential very soon to achieve complete digitisation of all administrations and all households, ensuring the availability of high-speed Internet and telematic access to all public services in each and every municipality. With regard to the points of his motion, that is to say, the financing through State taxes and the tax burden borne by natural and legal persons, it gives me the feeling that it compares the percentage of income between municipalities over 75,000 inhabitants with the income below that population to indicate over-financing in large cities, when what should in fact be underlined is that any Spanish municipality deserves to have sufficient income to provide its neighbours with public services of similar quality, more or less populated. In the inquiry to the Minister of Finance last week, I remember how he referred to this matter. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Keep quiet. Go on, Mr. García. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u161	Thank you, President. He said that, in the inquiry to the Minister of Finance last week, I recall that he made reference to this matter by referring to the tax exemptions that some communities and municipalities have in own management taxes, such as inheritance taxes, property taxes, etc., to argue that the most populated regions have surplus collection. Do not be mistaken, Your Honor, communities like Madrid and Andalusia, ruled as tax havens by the People's Party to favor the millionaires, receive no more funding than they need, none of that. Its strategy is to destroy public services in order to privatize them to the highest bidder. These autonomous governments of the right have no income left, they have no face, they have no caradura. In conclusion, Mr. Guitarte, allow me to make the following assessments. Of the municipal revenues that each consistory receives, as you well know, one part corresponds to direct taxes and taxes, the other to the autonomous transfer and the third to the state transfer. What precisely you bring to this motion, Your Honor, the ideal one to consider territorial elements or peculiarities, is the autonomous tax. In addition, it should be recalled that, according to article 31 of the Local Regime Bases Act, it is the provincial parliaments that must guarantee the principles of solidarity and intermunicipal balance, especially in those under 20,000 inhabitants. On what it calls singular transfer 2024, I will not even enter the percentages it proposes, since the sectoral conference continues to work with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the Ministry of Finance to reach a consensus that allows to modify the Law of Local Regime Bases...; I'm on my way, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u162	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. García. It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u163	... essential consensus because, Your Honor, our nation is diverse, and so valid is the criterion of the inhabitants of Teruel, such as those of Seville or Alicante. In short, we shall vote no to your motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Mr Calvo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. List. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u165	Thank you, President. Mr Guitarte, you know that in VOX we are advocates of the zero-based budgetary methodology for all administrations, and this you propose to increase the percentage of the financial allocation to local entities simply, we do not share. His motion talks about the need to reform the financing of small municipalities in order to correct the aggravation in rural Spain, and we ask him: for what purpose? Well, if what he is trying to do, he says, is to contribute-open quotes - 'to environmental sustainability and to the quality of the landscape' - close quotes - this is not going to prevent bleeding or the people's winter. What globalist agenda has he copied from? [[Applauds]] Neither in her question, nor in the Minister's reply, nor in her motion, nor in her speech, have we heard two fundamental words today: birth and family. It's essential to talk about them. [[Applauds]] If not, what population are you referring to today or in the future? To live who, Mr. Guitarte? The family is the institution best valued by the Spaniards, embryo of society and guarantor of the future of our nation. However, there is no real and effective support from the administrations. Where are children, birth policies, differentiated taxation, communications, transport, the defence of agriculture and livestock, more resources to cover basic services in unpopulated areas? What are those areas? Do you know that? Does the government know? Do you know the European Union? Shouldn't we start here? Could we not start with that map accepted by the Ombudsman, which included much of the Spanish geography? At a time when the Constitution is being trampled on, it is particularly important to denounce that there has been no intention of fulfilling the mandates of article 138: solidarity, cohesion and balance between the regions of Spain within their unity. The Government looks with contempt at the rural areas, their traditions, their ways of life and their resources, and, in short, at their very identity, which have been fundamentally neglected since the 2030 Agenda, incompatible with the defence of Spain and its needs, causing particular damage to its inhabitants, causing further emptiness of these territories. It is abandoned Spain, it is the failure of the autonomous model, up to six competent administrations to fight against depopulation, seeking the same formula of financing as you postulate, that of 'always more is better'; immense increase in public spending and budgetary multiplication, which are a ballast for the citizen, with permanent concessions of bipartisanism to separatists, always dissatisfied with the self-government achieved, insolidary and disloyal with the national project, making it necessary today to stop the coup de Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Forty years of autonomous statehood have left a political community divided into seventeen kingdoms of taifas, administrative chaos, weakened emotional ties and an unequal Spain. In VOX, we think that intelligent use of fiscal policy can help create incentives to curb depopulation and increase birth rate: reductions in tax figures such as IRPF, ITP, companies, autonomous quotas and incentives to hire. We must reduce taxes on its inhabitants and eliminate many of them. Without services and with high taxes, who will stay in those places? The money has to be in the pocket of the Spaniards better than in the hands of the administrations, but we know that thanks to the government and its partners, next year, 2023, will be marked by a remarkable increase in taxes. [[applause]] Abolition of the municipal surplus tax or exemption from the transmission of the taxpayer's usual family home if reinvested in a new one, and access to education up to the age of three, health services, the Internet and high speed. These must be basic priorities. Demography can't be improvised. The lack of specific policies has led us to this very difficult and very slow reversal situation. Depopulation not only means that certain areas of Spain are emptied; it supposes empty villages without soul, they are land without sowing, they are forgotten traditions, they are lost causes, they are buildings in ruins, it is buried history and people uprooted, remember, families and children, because, as stated in an article whose reading I recommend my colleague Georgina Trias, ladies and gentlemen, the children do not pollute. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvo. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Padilla Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u167	Thank you, President. Mr Guitarte, what you put forward in this motion is complex, very complex, as the Minister of Finance and Public Service told you last week, because, although you in the title of the motion talk about financing small municipalities, the reality is that you talk about many things, even municipalities that have little to do with small ones. What you are putting forward is much more complicated if faced from the point of view of rigour. It implies nothing more and nothing less than the reform of local financing, autonomous financing and the Local Regime Bases Act, in which the Government of Spain is already working. But you have to recognize that you have focused a lot on staying well with everyone rather than making a realistic, concrete and specific proposal for the small real municipalities. I have heard your motion - I say it with all due respect - a little to the electoral letter to the municipalities of Spain, because tell me if not to what answer we have just approved the general budgets of the State for 2023 in this House with a budget for the local entities of 23.5 billion euros, which you have not supported, and now propose a singular transfer for 2024 from the central administration and the autonomous administrations. [[applause]] It also establishes two categories, one for municipalities with less than 400 inhabitants and one for municipalities with 400 to 25 000 inhabitants. 25 000 inhabitants, Mr. Guitarte, small municipalities? I think this issue is out of hand. We all want more funding, some want it to progress further, for more equality, and we want it all, autonomous communities, small, large and medium-sized municipalities, but we cannot share with you the discomfort you have had because the autonomous communities have expanded their funding since 1995. Of course, it is that the competences of health and education, among others many that have assumed the autonomous communities at this time, have necessarily led to an increase in resources, and I am surprised that you discuss it. If we really want to work and we want to talk about the fight against depopulation, we must distinguish without complexes who really believes these policies, who bets on policies to fight depopulation, who does things right, who has political will, who puts budget and who doesn't. You can't put us all in the same sack, this isn't from autonomous communities against municipalities or from large municipalities against small municipalities. [[Applauds]] The Socialists, Mr Guitarte, believe that it is necessary to act beyond counting how many people live in the villages. We believe that we must work to ensure that those who want to live in peoples can do so with dignity, with a guarantee of public services, with communications, with economic and employment opportunities. That's what this is about. In this respect, I cannot fail to highlight the important work that the Spanish Government is doing in this area: firstly, by raising the demographic challenge to a cross-cutting policy, by putting it in a vice-presidency, but also by measures such as those collected in the general state budgets for 2023 to reduce the costs of social security to employees or by aid for the operation of enterprises in areas of low population density. That said, the autonomous communities also have responsibility in this matter and not only can they, but they must also take action, and I give you two good examples: the Government of Aragon with the Aragonese Act on the Dynamization of the Rural Environment and that of Castile-La Mancha with the Act on Economic, Social and Tax Measures against Depopulation, a pioneering law in this country. [[applause]] We are not all the same, however much the People's Party now comes with an amendment that is not credible, because it has also made two things clear. One is to update the local tax law, for which a big deal is required. Do not tell me, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you are willing to agree something with this Parliament and with the government. I can't believe it! [[Applauds]] Secondly, to strengthen municipal services in rural areas; you, who closed, for example, in my region, sixty-eight rural schools, and that if we have been able to open only forty is because in the rest, where you closed the schools, families left with the children. I'm on my way, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you, who very much like to point out to those who do not think like you in the peoples, in the networks, in the media, point out the path of your autonomous presidents, especially that of Castilla and León, that instead of following VOX what you have to do is copy the measures of the Spanish Government and the socialist governments to fight against depopulation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Padilla. Mr Guitarte, do you accept the amendment tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u169	We will vote on your terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u170	All right. Thank you very much. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, before the votes begin, the first secretary of the Bureau will read out an institutional statement.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u172	Institutional declaration. The Islamic Republic of Iran is experiencing a continuous wave of social mobilizations following the death on 16 September of Mahsa Amini, a young woman who had been arrested two days earlier for failing to comply with the strict dress rules imposed on women. The citizen's response to this fact has been maintained until today and faced with a disproportionate use of force by the Iranian authorities, which has led to numerous deaths, injuries and arrests. The whereabouts of a group of persons detained in the development of demonstrations are unknown. Two death sentences of protest participants, Mohsen Shekari and Majid Reza Rahnavard, have been carried out among the detainees, following judicial proceedings that have not been guaranteed, in particular the possibility of an appeal, as envisaged by Iranian law itself. According to data published by Amnesty International, at least eighteen other people are at risk of being executed for protest-related events. Among those sentenced to death are Sahand Nourmohammad-Zadeh, MahanSedarat Madani, Manouchehr Mehman Navaz, Mohammad Boroughani, Mohammad Ghobadlou, Saman Seydi, Hamid Ghare Hasanlou, Akbar Ghafarri, four people by name Alborz and another by name unknown. Six other people are being prosecuted and have been charged with crimes carrying the death penalty: Abolfazl Mehri Hossein Hajilou, Mohsen Rezazadeh Gharegholou, Saeed Shirazi, Ebrahim Rahimi, Majidreza Rahnavard, Toomaj Salehi and the young footballer of twenty-six years Amir Nasr-Azdani. The Congress of Deputies appeals to the authorities of the Islamic Republic of Iran: the immediate cessation of executions and the disproportionate use of force in the face of the legitimate exercise of the rights of assembly and demonstration; the clarification of the whereabouts of persons who have been arrested and their procedural situation; and respect for judicial guarantees, the right to defence and access to remedies for the review of their convictions of all persons detained. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u173	Thank you very much, secretary first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u174	It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the VOX Parliamentary Group amending Law 7/1985 of 2 April, Regulator of the Local Regime, in order to amend the municipal standard in cases of occupation and illegal immigration. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 143 against, 189 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u175	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on Violence in the Health Environment. [[File number 122/00211]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u176	Proposition of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on violence in the health field. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 155 against, 187 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-20-CD221220.u177	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is rejected. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine o'clock at night. Error correction. In the Diary of Sessions No. 231, for plenary meeting No. 223, held on Tuesday, 13 December 2022, on page 3, second paragraph, where it reads: 'of the VOX Parliamentary Group' should read 'of the Socialist Parliamentary Group'.
