ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. It is appropriate to discuss the motions for resolutions submitted to the Government's communication for the general policy debate on the state of the nation. For the defence of the motions for resolutions, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno first spoke. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to hold your seats and keep the Chamber silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled two motions for resolutions, which is all the internal quota we have in the Joint Group. These are two proposals which seek to help correct the lack of territorial cohesion in Spain. The first would be linked to aid for the operation of enterprises in unpopulated areas, which have been authorised by the European Commission and which are also included in the State General Budgets, additional provision 123. It is a measure that seeks to correct the loss of economic and territorial effectiveness in these areas affected by depopulation in a very serious way. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u3	Wait a minute, Mr. Guitar. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary has begun and it is up to us to listen to the speaker, Mr Guitarte. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u4	Thank you. I was commenting that, of the two proposals, one is linked to the request for immediate application of aid for the operation of undertakings in areas affected by depopulation, aid which was authorised by the European Commission in April last year and which is included in the State General Budgets this year in additional provision 123. It is a measure that makes it possible to correct the loss of economic and territorial effectiveness in these areas affected by depopulation in a very serious way. This possibility has been recognised in the European Union only for those NUTS 3 units, i.e. provinces with a population density of less than 12.5 inhabitants per square kilometre. In the European context this only happens in three Spanish provinces and two northern provinces in Norway and Finland, and I also believe that there is a small area in Greece. That is to say, the uniqueness of this phenomenon is precisely the intense gravity of depopulation, which is what the European Commission intends to authorise such aid without considering it State aid. We believe that this is a very important measure for the economic revival of these areas. It affects the provinces of Cuenca, Soria and Teruel, and also those bordering areas that have this same population density, with which we would be talking about areas of Guadalajara, Zaragoza and provinces like Castellón. The second proposal reflects the need to implement a rail service that directly connects Madrid with Teruel. They know that Teruel is the only provincial capital that has no rail connection or direct highway to Madrid. This connection would simply be a matter of exploitation taking advantage of the existing infrastructure; that is, taking advantage of the Madrid-Zaragoza-Barcelona high-speed line and then the conventional line between Zaragoza and Teruel. And it would be made with the Talgo 730 hybrids; that is, material that allows to circulate both by one way and another, with a width of track as with another and with a type of energy supply both electric and diesel. In the end, it is a matter of programming, it hardly has a specific cost and we believe that it would be a gesture to end once and for all one of the eternal demands of the province of Teruel: to have a direct connection with Madrid, a solution that has been called for for over a hundred years. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Ladies and gentlemen, plenary has just begun and we cannot be asking for silence every five minutes. I ask you, please, not to have any conversations within the Chamber. I have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The debate on the state of the nation is closed today with the discussion and vote on a large number of motions for resolutions, including the two that I have tabled as the representative of the Forum. The one in issue 5 is dedicated to transport infrastructure and has six sections in which I have tried to summarise some of the priorities that need urgent attention to correct Asturias's road, rail and port deficit, as well as to give competitiveness to the productive fabric and to make social profit on the large public investments already made, but which have either not entered service or are not being exploited. If something has characterized the presence of Forum in the General Courts since its foundation in 2011, it has been precisely the fight against the isolation of the region, a task that still has many fringes that represent a huge ballast to reverse aging, depopulation, the destruction of employment and ultimately decadence. The second proposal, number 9, contains five paragraphs on energy policy and industry. This resolution, unlike the previous one, which focused more on Asturias, supports the need for a state pact for industry to regain its contribution to national GDP and to create conditions for stable and quality work. It also promotes compliance with the compensatory socio-economic agreements of the fair transition process to prevent the desertification of regions affected by decarbonization. Finally, a call is made for a consensus of measures in favour of the agri-food industry and the primary sector so that agricultural and fishing activities are not also the victims of clearance decisions, with the wolf and with the sea wind in the middle. For these two motions for resolutions, I ask you to vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u8	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting two motions for resolutions. The first refers to the National Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla. As you probably remember, on November 2, 1999, a catastrophe occurred: the entire wall of the main building collapsed, causing five deaths and the loss of the building. Thanks to national solidarity, the Government of Spain committed itself to paying for reconstruction investments. Subsequently, the Government of the People's Party paid a small part, but a significant amount remained outstanding. It must be acknowledged that the Socialist Party and Podemos, the current government, have paid another very important part of the cost of that reconstruction. By the way, I must remind you that the Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla is a national reference hospital so recognized by an organic law. Finally, we have agreed with the Government to pay the full amount of the investment in four years. There is one part left, and we therefore urge the Government to negotiate with the Government of Cantabria on how to pay the remaining amount in the forthcoming budgets of 2023. Secondly, we are presenting a motion for a resolution on the railways and the neighbourhoods. This question, which is a national cry given the state in which the closeness is in Spain, in Cantabria is particularly problematic. I believe that this is one of the most important issues affecting the population. There are always breakdowns and delays. Even, the implementation of the new security systems caused total chaos during a season because the times were still much larger than usual. That is why we call on the Government not to say that they will continue to work or that there is a plan in place, what we want is action, immediate and urgent reinforcement on the issue of proximity in Cantabria. I hope that your ladies and gentlemen will vote in favour of these two motions for resolutions, which in some way affect all of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that these motions for resolutions are obviously government programmes. So those who are part of it, like the Socialist Party and Podemos, have had three years to carry it out and they are already having less time for it. Today it publishes the ABC newspaper on the cover how prices have risen on basic issues that all the citizens we buy see in the day-to-day, it seems that all but the government itself. And one of the proposals we had is to reduce the administration in those superfluous expenses that are taking place. We're seeing him here today. We are debating the state of the nation, we are here with all this taco of proposals and no one from the government. The Government is not interested in this debate. The Government is only to advertise, to use aircraft, to use those houses that have been paid for by all Spaniards, but certainly not to reduce public spending. I think this is a good opportunity, knowing the work that is being done by the government, so that this oversized government that we have right now in Spain can be reduced in a clear way, as well as a lot of superfluous spending that is being carried out. We cannot ask the Spaniards for an effort, as they did yesterday, and say that much less is spent on heating, air conditioning, showers, water, etc., and that the Government does not put anything on their side. Of course, that is not understood by the Spanish as a whole, that this year they have difficulty having a normal holiday or, as I said yesterday, so that they can simply go for a weekend to their people. We also have a number of proposals concerning the Navarra Foral Community to comply with those commitments already made by the Spanish Government but which are forgotten when it comes to budgeting, such as the large infrastructures. Tomás Guitarte said about Teruel that it was the only province that was not connected to Madrid by highway. For I will tell you that the Foral Community of Navarre, being an autonomous community and an autonomous community capital, is not linked by motorway with Madrid; you see that there is still much to go. Our proposals also aim to ensure that the institutions, as far as the Government is concerned through the State's security forces and bodies, with the means that can be given to them and also by giving the judiciary the means, can resolve the 379 murders committed by the terrorist band ETA that are still unresolved, because the statute of limitations can come. I shall now refer to a proposal put forward by other parliamentary groups, which is the one on the right of self-determination, because it directly affects us. The change that has been made when Euskal Herria Bildu speaks of Euskal Herria, of that quimera and entelequia that does not exist, but the right to decide of the shipwrecks is renounced, which is at the moment contained in the Constitution and they do not want to carry it out because they know that if there was a referendum at the moment they would lose in a stupendous way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u11	Thank you, Mr. García. Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u12	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, 'and those islands now forgotten'. This phrase, which may seem to many of us today, dates back to 1852, the Law of Franco Ports. A few days after the 50th anniversary of our Economic and Fiscal Regime, which is nothing other than the tool that allows us to pay for the shopping basket, to pay for gasoline, for the light, for everything that allows us to live, we must think whether we have made enough progress in recent years, whether this centralist and capitalist view of state policies has made it possible for territories and nationalities to develop everything we should. For us it is clear: the enrichment and growth of the State go hand in hand with the growth of its territories, regions and nationalities. It's simple: if Canarias grows, Spain grows. Coalition Canaria, a nationalist party that has always defended the interests of the Canary Islands above all, brings several motions for resolutions. The first seems obvious: that they respect and comply with our economic and fiscal regime, our status of autonomy, our magnanimous charter. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot spend fifty years defending conquered rights, because policies that are not maintained are not effective; every time a new crisis strikes us - pandemic, volcanic or war - this prevents us from conquering new tools because we are busy defending the old ones. We also continue to support the following motion for a resolution, which is of law and justice with the Canarian people: that the Canarian Government defend the median of the Canarian waters in the negotiations with Morocco. This has already happened: with the Government of Adam Martín, in 2004, the Government of the Canary Islands was already negotiating with the Government of Morocco. To the government - which is not, but will certainly listen to it - I give a message: we do not trust. Every time the government makes a deal with Morocco, the bills are paid by the Canary Islands. Canaries have to be. Last but not least, La Palma. The volcano went out, the cameras went away, and the worst fears of the palm trees were fulfilled: we have forgotten them. Palm trees need certainties, they need a reconstruction plan for the next ten years, an orderly, coordinated, organized plan. That is why this motion for a resolution is a small push for palm trees to regain their life in these ten years, which is now paralysed. We propose that in the next ten years a 60% reduction in income tax can be made, something that is already happening today in Ceuta and Melilla. I'm done with the sentence I started. That Law of Ports Francos said: And those islands, now forgotten, will be the link and point of communication of distant continents. This leaves me with the feeling that there was more talk about the future in 1852 than in 2022. Gentlemen of the Government, are you willing to talk about the future and the future of the Canary Islands? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u14	Thank you, President. It is a little rare to be defending resolutions addressed to the Government and that there is no member of the Government. Between this and the environmental noise, it's a bit bizarre to come up here and drop the subject, but I'll also do it because I suppose someone will listen to me. We have grouped our proposals into three resolutions: one on social rights, one on the climate emergency and, finally, another on freedoms. On social rights, taking President Sánchez's statement that the end must be reached, it means a complete repeal of labour reform, among other issues in order to recover the old compensation for dismissal. It is true that many temporary to indefinite contracts are passing, but the secret is that they are very cheap indefinite to fire employers, since the compensation that the PP imposed in 2012 was left intact with the latest labor reform. Another issue they had in the Government's agreement, which they had forgotten, was the elimination of fraudulent subcontracting, as the collective of 'the Kellys' continued to demand. And we add: against inflation, price control, tax reform, nationalize the housing stock of the Sareb and repeal the counter-reform of article 135 of the Constitution, agreed between the PSOE and the PP - the new state pact that!-, which imposes payment to banks rather than to public services On the climate emergency, the goal of humanity is that the temperature does not increase beyond a degree and a half. Here a law was passed that was already born out of date: it was proposed to reduce emissions by 23% when necessary is 65%. The Catalan law passed by our Parliament was more advanced in this regard and many articles in the Constitution were suspended; that is, the Spanish State does not do nor does it allow us to do so. On the issue of energy: assume what will come, a great energy drop, because we have reached the peak of oil. To lead a just energy transition there is a basic tool, the public ownership of energy companies, i.e. their nationalization. Finally - with this I finish -, freedoms. It is summarized quickly, telegraphically: repeal of the law of gags, investigation of the 'catalangate', allow the investigation of the crimes of Francoism and later, repeal of the law of aliens, exit from NATO, abolition of the monarchy and, finally, a key question: since none of these things will want to do them in the Spanish State, at least let others do it. We call for self-determination for peoples and constituent processes to carry forward this necessary social and environmental programme. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u16	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. It is impossible for me to begin the intervention without mentioning some of the measures that the President of the Government, Mr Pedro Sánchez, transferred yesterday as initiatives that his Government intends to take in this House. And it is good that we are talking about the free transport of close and mid-distance. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u18	It is right that the grant should be increased for people who really need it, not to cover or finance the incursions of some in elite schools; it is right that a tax should be generated on the bank; it is right that a tax should be generated on the energy sector. It is good that these big oligopolies, these big economic elites, are taxed for something very simple. And if Mr. Garamendi, president of the CEOE, can quote Bertolt Brecht - even if it's wrong, because the quote was from Niemöller - why won't I be able to do it? Bertolt Brecht said, 'Why don't you want to pay? We read that you make yourselves richer every day...' That is what this Government has to say to the economic elites of this country, the very economic elites, by the way, who have been holding state leaders for decades, democracy or dictatorship through. But, as I say, these measures, while well, we believe they are insufficient because, as announced by the President of the Government himself, they limit their scope to a specific time, limit their effectiveness to a certain point, a few months, when we believe that these measures would have to be structural, they would have to accompany in a continuous and sustained way the action of any Government that seeks to redistribute wealth and generate a society of free and equal men and women. We today bring here more measures to reinforce the announced turn and to make it strategic, because we run the risk that the announced yesterday will not cease to be more than a tactical movement to buy time and to strengthen or question the government around proposals that, obviously, from the left, we cannot criticize in a careless way. But the important thing is that this is a strategic turnaround because, taking into account the very forecasts that the Government put on the table in yesterday's debate, what awaits us is nothing flattering, nothing good. He told us about the possibility of power cuts and, therefore, of difficulty in daily transit for any citizen. He told us about an inflation that, still contained, will not be able to be reduced as we would all like. We are therefore faced with a point of inflection or, if they prefer, with a historic crossroads, and on that path, at that point of inflection, we and we have very clear what we think we should do, which is to give meaning to the common, to the collective, to the public power now to protect the weakest because, if that is not done, if the economic elites of the Spanish State continue to be empowered, they will continue to kidnap and derail the State itself until they leave it alone in an empty box, in a mere instrument of social control, and this is not even an element of copyright of the Spanish economic elites, this is the movement that is taking place throughout the world, that the economic elites decide that the States, as if it were a Monopoly, are their playing ground and that the citizens, as if we were the chips of that Monopoly, are the elements to sacrifice so that they maintain their indecent margins of benefit. And since we don't want any of that to happen, we think we need to go deeper into different planes, and we say it openly, because we usually speak with some clarity. We believe that more rights must be given to all, not just a few; we must ensure that the enjoyment of rights is not only within the reach of those who can or can afford them, but also a guarantee of basic dignity for any citizen; we want more involvement of the public authorities in the economy. Yes, we want to break with the neo-liberal dogma that says that the economy takes precedence over politics; we want politics to take precedence over the economy, we want there to be a strong public power that intervenes in the market - because it is a lie that only Adam Smith's invisible hand regulates it - so that we can balance the misadjustments that the market and the desire for the benefit of the elites produce in people's lives. Because we also heard in yesterday's debate on many occasions - I think it was not casual - talking about the working middle class. What is the working middle class? Workers who work part-time, could you think of one? I'm afraid that wasn't what you were talking about. We talk about the working class, because what is the working middle class? The worker who has a decent salary? Do we forget all the workers who have precarious wages? Do we have to fight the penultimate against the last, while we are the ones who generate the wealth of any society, so that a few continue to remain on their ivory thrones? No, we will talk about working class today and always, and that is why the third point that we raise is to put the working class at the centre of all measures, the working class that fights, that claims their rights, the same working class that today in Gasteiz, in Vitoria, and through Mercedes workers, is carrying out a strike because it does not want their wages to be below the increase in the CPI in people's lives, the same people who do not want to have a more working day, that of the sixth day, to exploit them even more. That is a line that we will continue to defend, like it more or like it less who this is listening to. And the third and very elementary is that we want more democracy, we want more democracy in our lives and we want more democracy in the lives of all people. We want more democratic frameworks to balance the centres of power, which remain unbalanced, and for the balance to be balanced between the social and popular majorities, which are and are the majority, vis-à-vis those minorities or elites who continue to hold all power, whatever form of government we pass on. We want, in short, more people and less elites, we want more transparency and less cartels, because it is indecent that we have to know by the press than the big Spanish state construction companies, those that feed on public funds through the construction of infrastructures, call themselves the G-7 and that meet weekly to decide which of them bid in which public works, at what prices they do, what overprices will be obtained and how profits will be distributed. That is scorning a state, and it is sad that there is no clear action in this House to denounce and persecute what is a cartel with all its letters. We also want life to be put at the centre, we want to dignify people's lives, and we believe that the reproduction of life is much more important than the reproduction of capital and that the reproduction of capital is an element of difficulty for life to be maintained. In view of this, we have tabled various motions for resolutions at different levels. Obviously, for what I have pointed out so far, there are quite a few motions for resolutions signed by our group, by the BNG and by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya jointly. And we do so because reality also challenges us, because what we propose is that control over banking and the energy sector is a real control, a certain control, that they cannot be blamed again what the cost of new taxes to citizens through false doorways or triqueñuelas, as has happened with the 20 cents of the fuel subsidy, which has not prevented energy companies from continuing to work. We also believe that there has to be more control over what they do on a daily basis. I am no longer going to quote here today the profit margins that have been obtained in these years, I want to talk today about what - and this is a randomly chosen press cut - these gentlemen are doing, and they are not beings of light, they are the lords of light, they are the people who decide to rig prices, agree prices to continue bleeding citizens, and someone would have to say - and who but the public power - that that cannot be done. That is why we believe that there is no time limit to extraordinary benefits and we believe that it is necessary to penalize their illegalities or irregularities in a much more abrupt way, because it makes no sense that, if someone finds out that they can make a 100 million trap and the fine is 10, stop doing so, because what needs to be done is to impose fines that do not allow their profits to be greater than the amount of the fine, and that can be done by this Congress. We also believe that income limits should be extended to receive minimum living income, the social thermal bonus and that pensions should be raised in accordance with the CPI; and so do we about pensions, we say about wages. We know that the debate on the income pact is on the table, and we also tell you clearly one thing from Euskal Herria Bildu: an income pact that raises a wage restraint, if it is not accompanied by a thorough control of the extraordinary benefits that the great economic sectors of this country are having, it is not a fair or dignified pact for the working class. It can't be that we have to make the effort to live worse again so that the usual - few - will live as gods. We also want, in reciprocity and for justice with what made us go out on the street for ten years, that all those harmful aspects of the labor reforms that have existed in the Spanish State cease to exist. We want to increase redundancies to 45 days, to recover processing wages, to return to the relevant administrative authorization of the EREs, we want the prevalence of sectoral and collective agreements compared to those of the enterprise and we also want an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage equal to inflation in the first half of 2022. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u20	In order for them to understand me even better, if that fateful future that the president foreshadowed us yesterday is fulfilled, if our society is on its way to becoming a kind of Mad Max or Hunger Games, we want those who have to compete to survive this time to be the members of the boards of directors of the big companies, not the working class. Because, as a professor at the University of the Basque Country and activist, Jules Goicoetxea, said these days, we cannot stay alone in floats, which are fine, but if what comes to us is a tsunami, floats will not allow us to reach our destination. We need a clear rudder, a fixed course and a strong bet to give everything, as the president said yesterday, to go with everything. We believe that evictions without housing alternatives should be prohibited, but we also propose more initiatives in the field of social rights and freedoms. We plan to amend the Official Secrets Act; what to say about this when the cloacas flood everything, when the cloacas are also able to transform their opinions into published opinion, which is not public opinion, when they make of the media the means of forming opinions, not the means of information. We want to repeal the law of gloom, protect the human rights of migrants and their right to asylum, end the law of aliens; we want, in short, more rule of law and less state of waste. And we also want more transparency. Everyone in this House is talking about transparency, because we want transparency starting with the first of the Spaniards, with the Royal House. We want to know how much it costs to keep your life as an oropel, we want to monitor and limit your privileges. And believe me, the least important thing for me is whether the Bourbon or the Bribon sail again, the important thing for me is that we know what it costs us all and all to keep their pace of life; and, obviously, by republican vocation, we want them to stop being kings, so we want to repeal the crimes of insulting the Crown, so that the rapists do not have to be exiled. We want a commission of inquiry into the corruptions of King Emeritus, and this should not be difficult on the left. For decades I have heard many leaders of the Socialist Party say that they were Republicans, but Juancarists; I believe that now Juancarist will not want to be either God, and if no one wants to be Juancarist and still be Republicans we could go to a commission of inquiry to see what the Emeritus King has done. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] We believe that the unilateral turn on the Sahara must be rectified, that we must do so, sincerely, and in the same way that we believe that this must be done, we believe that we must abandon the momentum of promoting the militarist ideal. We tell you from the Euskal Herria that someone calls Chimerica who said no to NATO. We tell them that we do not believe in imperialism, that we are against all imperialism, whether Russian or Atlantist. And it comes to mind the reflections of a great who is no longer, Thomas Sankara, who said that imperialism is a system of exploitation that occurs not only in the brutal form of those who come with weapons to conquer the territory. Imperialism often occurs in subtler forms: a loan, food aid, blackmail. We are fighting against this system that allows a handful of men on earth to rule all mankind. And finally, we have also put forward initiatives to deepen the plurinationality of the State, so that what some recognize in the corridors becomes a visible and tangible reality. We believe that political response must be given to political problems, that that response must be based on the will of the citizen and on dialogue as a way to resolve them. We believe that we must bet on more democracy. Someone said that Euskal Herria is a chimera, that we would lose any vote. Accept me the glove, Mr.Adanero of UPN; accept it lose, let us lose, dare to go to a referendum so that we lose, if we do, because if we have anything it is that we are aidists and we will try it again and again until our people are free to decide freely and democratically how they want to organize themselves. [[Applauds]] Yesterday, The Economist was mentioned to point out that the Spanish State was among the twenty-five consolidated democracies in the world. It is a defective democracy, according to that same study, which curiously points out as a full democracy that is in the 18th place, Britain, which has allowed it to do that as dangerous as a referendum for Scotland; it has allowed it once, it will allow it twice and it will allow it when it is needed. In short, we want sovereignty to build what we deserve and what we want; we want sovereignty to change everything, to change and decide on all things. I'm done. They say that Euskal Herria is a chimera, but they also told Spartacus that he was a madman for saying that he had to live in a society without slaves; they also told the French that he had no sense to leave the feudal regime and bet on another reality in the French Revolution; they also told the Spanish for forty years that living in a dictatorship was the only thing that could touch them, but all those realities changed and fell by the force of the people. Because the Basque people exist, because the Basque people will exist and because the Basque people, to the extent that they exist, have the right to something as basic as this: 'All peoples have the right to self-determination. Under this right they freely establish their political status and also provide for their economic, social and cultural development.' This is not a statement of principles or a programmatic basis of Euskal Herria Bildu, this is the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the United Nations, a pact that was signed by the Spanish State on 27 July 1977. Keep your word. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u21	Thank you, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u22	Thank you very much, President. Your ladies and gentlemen already know the proposals of our parliamentary group and their motivation, so I will not be prolific in their presentation. In any case, I will start with those issues that have focused on the debate of the past few days, such as the one about some of the causes of this inflation: energy prices that burden both family and industrial consumption. We therefore urge the Government to put forward structural measures for the reform of the price formation structure, increasing the volume of futures markets by bringing some percent of their production to that futures market for purchase by non-dominant traders. In short, that the futures market has greater liquidity, that dominant positions are reduced at commercial level and that the marginalist market has less influence on the formation of prices; and, together with this, to improve the competitiveness of the electro-intensive companies, to reform the electric tariff schedule for better use of the network in downstream hours and to stimulate the energy transition so that demand is mostly met by renewable energies. With regard to the other major energy market, gas, which has taken on a leading role as a transitional technology, are proposing improvements in both supply and interconnections, in order to alleviate to some extent the bottlenecks caused by price pressures and supply insecurity. To this end, new loads of this type of energy - in the face of the increasing demand for natural gas - are proposed by means of transport and the acceleration of the interconnections of the Iberian peninsula with the European Union. Another centre of gravity of the current economic situation is the Recovery and Resilience Plan and it adds as an instrument for economic recovery and the generation of a new economy following the COVID pandemic. In this line, we urge the Government to involve the autonomous communities in the addendum and also in the design and implementation of regional strategic investment projects, connected with their economic and social fabric. On the other hand, and taking into account the structure and dimension of our productive fabric, which is formulated in a singular and almost unanimous way in SMEs and self-employed, it is necessary to facilitate access to the funds of the said Recovery and Resilience Plan and to facilitate greater percentages of co-financing of the public sector, facilitating also the simplification of procedures in order not to provoke, as is happening, the lack of tender to them, thereby compromising, as is happening, the viability and transformative function of the funds, as well as the viability of the SMEs themselves. Finally, as regards production sectors, the so-called first sector is also the subject of our attention in relation to the protected designations of origin above autonomous, in some of which a significant number of producers have shown their willingness to require a change in them; in particular, as in the case of Rioja Alavesa producers, demanding, in view of the specific cultural and productive characteristics, the creation of the area regulatory board with its own management functions, deconcentrated by the current regulatory board of the protected designation of origin and in coordination with it. To this end, the Government is urged to promote a mechanism that allows both knowledge of the will of wine-growers and to act accordingly. Also within the citizens' demands, the claim of those who reside in the enclaves of Treviño and Villaverde - in Araba and Bizkaia, in particular - we also collect it in our proposals, urging the Government to respect the opinion of that citizenship regarding the incorporation of its municipalities into the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, being facilitated by all institutional bodies. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the best defence of the welfare state leads us to call for urgent measures to alleviate the shortage of health professions, singularly - already exposed in the debates of these days - in the specialty of Family and Community Medicine, which suffer from health services. In addition, the construction of appropriate health systems to respond to future risks and threats that demand progress towards a health union, a European Health Union, to address global health risks such as pandemics, as well as to ensure strategic autonomy at Union level, in order to avoid dependence on third countries. Similarly, the configuration of the European education area to consolidate another public policy of the welfare state, such as education, calls for ensuring that the academic guarantee is based on mutual trust, avoiding barriers to the mobility of European students and also providing a unique consideration of the eco-regional perspective in order to give continuity to linguistic and cultural realities common to different European regions. Ladies and gentlemen, continuing to insist on equality is an obligation. It is necessary to continue to strive for the social scourge of inequality to disappear. Equality of men and women in all areas, combating gender-based violence and the rights of all guaranteed LGBT people call for further action from the public authorities. This same adoption of measures is necessary in relation to another of the situations that most challenge us today, such as the migratory phenomena, which in a globalized world have become phenomena with international significance due to their structural, massive and incremental character and the various causes that originate them, to which it must act from the objectives of the Global Compact for Regulated Migration achieved in Marrakech in 2018, from humanitarian principles and respect for the dignity of the person within the framework of the Union and international treaties on asylum and shelter, and by establishing criteria of shared effort between the various public administrations for the care of unaccompanied migrant minors. Finally, with regard to self-government, the emergence of the digital space is a reality that cannot be solely the responsibility of the central government, but that the autonomous communities must recognize their capacities and powers in that digital space over the subjects of their competence and, of course, without prejudice to the instruments of collaboration and cooperation that are appropriate between the various public administrations. I conclude, Madam President, by inciting, as our parliamentary group has already done in the general policy debate, the importance of addressing the issue of the national feelings of Catalan, Galician and Basque membership, which for some are seen as the door open to many problems, but I assure you that, on the contrary, they are the key to solving many of the problems that have been dragged away since time immemorial. Alongside this, official languages distinct from the common language are an irrevocable value for the cultural wealth they represent. The General Administration of the State, in its services in the territories where they are available, must put an end to the situations that prevent their use by the citizens addressed to it, as well as take the necessary steps for the creation of language technology centres linked to all official languages. Nothing more and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Yesterday we lived here on a day when the president of the government came to say what Chaves said: "Explore." Express the profits of companies and also express the ideas of Podemos. Yesterday, the Socialist Party became Podemos and wanted to tell us that it has the same idea for Spain that Yolanda Díaz has. Today I will tell you, I will show you, what Citizens want for a liberal Spain in a project worked out; in a project that says already enough to bipartisanism that has been ceasing to nationalism for forty years and that has been dividing the institutions of the State for forty years; in a project that starts from a Spain of free and equal citizens, with the same rights and opportunities, whatever its postal code or its departure from birth. A Spain that starts from a problem, and entered the economy, which is that two-digit inflation, but which is not only that problem, which is not going to lead us to shield ourselves from just talking about the economy. A problem that the President of the Government said yesterday that is due to a single evil individual who has put the world in check. Dr. No, Spectra and the president of the James Bond government. Well, no, look, no, it's not like that. And that's not because he doesn't listen to the opposition when he tells him to lower taxes, that's not because he lacks the courage to say that pensions can't go up to the CPI and that's not because they're governed by sectarian prejudices when he says he's not going to alter the closure of nuclear power. In this regard, we call for a thorough tax reform that caters to the benefits of households, businesses and employment, which weakens the superfluous expenditure of the Administration. It is not true that we are calling for widespread tax cuts or trying to boost the welfare state; on the contrary, we are trying to ensure that the welfare state has a solid foundation. We were the first and we repeat that the personal income tax rate has to be deflated, because we have an inflation rate of 10.2% and for seven years now the personal income tax rate has not been charged. AIReF tells us that each point of the CPI is EUR 2 billion, EUR 2 billion, who pays? You pay them, gentlemen, we pay them all. And what sacrifice does the government make in this situation in which we find ourselves? They expropriate the profits of the companies we're all going to pay, they ask for sacrifices from people to pass cold or heat, and what sacrifices does the government make? It does not weaken the administration, we continue with twenty-two ministries, with 1300 advisers; the extraordinary profits are taken away from the companies, but the extraordinary profits of the tax agency are not returned to the citizens. That's nice! [[Rumors]] At the same time we meet people who get up every day to work; who charge more than the interprofessional minimum wage; those who are raising the price of rent or mortgage, the price of fuel, of the shopping basket; who have to postpone their life plans, live independently or have children and who do not receive any help. These are the middle and working classes to which the Government, no matter how much it says, does not help. It doesn't help young people either, despite what Pedro Sánchez said here yesterday. And it does not because it continues to maintain the indexation of pensions to the CPI. Again we find AIReF: each point of IPC, 17 billion euros, with an inflation at 10.2. How are we gonna pay for this? How can we understand that this is sustainable with a youth unemployment rate of 27.1 %, with a public debt on GDP of 117%, having raised pensions in the last 12 years by 40 %, while young people's wages in the last 12 years have only risen by 4 %? How are we gonna hold this? Meanwhile, the government with its propaganda and slogans: the income pact. Do you know what the income pact really means? It means pulling all the shoulders, all: the workers, the entrepreneurs, the self-employed, the SMEs, you in the government regardless of that absolutely oversized administration, also the officials and also the pensioners, who want to see their children and grandchildren live, as little, as good as they do or, if not, a little better. And there is no parliamentary group that courageously says from this rostrum what we say, which is what the Bank of Spain says, which is what BBVA Research says and what the European Commission says. A pension system that you, with your demagogy, are carrying and your ideological prejudices lead you to want to close down that 22% of the electricity production of nuclear energy, with which it is falling and despite the fact that the European Union is betting on nuclear energy within the green taxonomy. Look, we want the same or more of you renewable energy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u26	But in the meantime what? In the meantime we pass cold, in the meantime we pass heat, in the meantime we pay absolutely tremendous bills. And you told Mrs. Arrimadas yesterday that we're obsessed with nuclear. We are obsessed with the problems of reality, and you are obsessed with your sectarian dogmas. Or is it that Belgium, Finland, France, the Netherlands, Poland, the United Kingdom or the Czech Republic are endangering the lives of their citizens or the environment? He entered the social and freedom bloc. The law of the ELA, yesterday told us here the president of the government - the truth, without blushing, as usual -: I am only the president of the government. Well, well, he bends over to the legislature whenever he wants. Don't worry, we've had to come along with the progressives to establish the right to abortion, to establish euthanasia, and we'll also come to ALS. Man, thank you for recognizing that Citizens is a progressive party. [[Rumors]] We owe it, we owe it to Jordi Sabate, to the Luzón Foundation, to Juan Carles Unzué, with whom I was speaking the other day in Pamplona, and we owe it to cancer patients, and we owe it also to those who suffer serious and rare diseases, such as spinal muscle atrophy. Mental health programme, national mental health strategy. The Minister of Health recognizes our role precisely in this strategy, but we have suffered a great deal. Anxiety, depression, sleep disorders have been generated and we have 11 suicides a day. We've got to keep moving. But above all, in this section of freedoms we must claim freedom from puritanism, from the new morale of the right and the left. Because you go to equality always to the lame foot, always to locks and ravines. You go to pride, but you don't admit subrogated gestation. You go to Women's Day, but you tell the woman what she can and can't do with her body. From its typical moral superiority, they tell us how consensual sexual relations between two adults should be, whether or not we can access pornography and condemn sex workers to conditions of precariousness, danger and unhealthyness. What is the difference between you and VOX, which claims a single family model or distinguishes people by skin, religion or sexual orientation? [[Rumors]] There is no difference, in the face of puritanism freedom! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u28	The freedom of surrogate pregnancy, the freedom of cannabis use, the freedom of sex work, how much it cost us to remove the masks. Let's see if they can get them off public transport. And look, regeneration, something you don't know anything about either you or you regeneration and equality. [[Addressing the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] We want a Spain of free and equal citizens. We do not want a Spain of nationalities and regions, of territories of first and second; we want a Spain of seventeen autonomous communities and two autonomous cities that are on an equal footing. And here we find, however, that Galicia, Euskadi and Catalonia, according to Alberto Núñez Feijóo, Pedro Sánchez and Pere Aragonès are nations that on an equal footing can negotiate with Spain. We do not believe nor will we ever believe in this and, of course, today is a day to be glad that the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union has supported Judge Llarena so that we can have Puigdemont here as soon as possible and can be tried for his serious crimes. [[Applauds]] Independence and neutrality of institutions. The institutions are of all Spaniards. The Government of Spain or the Government of Catalonia understand that they are only part of the people they govern. Of course, what we want is the absolute independence of the judiciary; something in which the Socialist Party and the People's Party have always agreed - if not independent - by dividing the judges for thirty-five years. The judges who will then appoint the judges who will judge the corruption cases of the Socialist Party and the People's Party. And nothing has been done by the Constitutional Court, - now they complain in the debate on the reform of the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary - the Court of Auditors - in favour of the prisoners of the trial - the Ombudsman. We want a system of competition of merits, of independent evaluation so that those who govern are the best, those who have the most talent; and the same for the Attorney General's Office, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors, Spanish Radio-television, the Centre for Sociological Research, the National Institute of Statistics. We propose an independent commission of appointments of the State and also a reform of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime. Look, Mrs Sabanes' seat has cost her 190 000 votes; Mr Guitarte's seat has cost her 19,000 votes. How do you eat that? There is no way to sustain it from the point of view of justice. We want an audit of public spending so that you too sacrifice yourselves with a thinner administration, which we can take away the fat. And we don't want to do it ourselves, we want the AIReF to do it, let the AIReF be the one who sees where there are duplications, the one who sees where there are superfluous positions without competence - as is the case with the Vice-President of Castile and León -. We want a statute for the senior official of the Civil Service, as they claim trade unions like Fedeca. These are our proposals. This is the country project of a liberal Spain that is based on words such as union, as consensus, as utility, as freedom, as equality, as regeneration, as reforms, as progress, against racist bipartisanism, against yellow bipartisanism. You always say and prove the antiquity of your party, because you are an ancient party, because you are an old party. We Liberals in this House today represent modernity, progress and the future. [[Laughter]] They laugh whatever they want, because here we are and here we are going to follow. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u30	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG's motion for a resolution, along the lines of what we defended yesterday, is, first of all, in defence of the interests of Galicia and also of the popular classes of our country and of the whole state, of the social majority. That is why we are calling for increased investment in Galicia, especially in order to recover the delay in infrastructure and, in particular, railway infrastructure. When it comes to public transport and sustainable transport, we are talking about rail transport. That is why we demand to improve the internal rail network, to connect cities that are incomprehensiblely not yet, such as Santiago and Lugo, or to implement the railways, which unfortunately do not yet exist in our country. Secondly, we call for support for Galicia's productive sectors, which are today threatened by various reasons: fishing, shellfish, agro-farming and the industrial sector, which is suffering from a serious crisis; and, by the way, ensuring the just transition in a very important case such as that of As Pontes. Thirdly, we are asking the electricity sector to intervene and to raise fuel prices, in addition to introducing a Galician electricity tariff. With regard to social policies, we call for an increase in pensions and wages, especially minimum wages and minimum pensions, to 60% of the average wage. To put an end to Galicia's predatory wind boom and to rationalise renewable energy production. Repeal the law on labour law or labour reform, to recover, for example, compensation of forty-five days. We call for pension reform. To advance in a truly fair and redistributive tax reform, with taxes on big companies and big fortunes. We ask to ensure that we can live in Galician. To promote social policies in our country, for example, by creating three gender-based violence courts, to which this Government has committed; or to transfer all competencies to our country. Finally, we bring a proposal that we jointly submit with Esquerra and Bildu to recognize Galicia, Euskal Herria and Catalonia as nations and therefore also their right to self-determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u31	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u32	Thank you very much, President. Compromís, together with four more parties of the Agreement of Turia, that is, Chunta Aragonesista, EQUO, Mais País and Més per Mallorca, we have jointly tabled four motions for resolutions that are in line with our own political interests. There are four motions for resolutions that affect not only our territories, but the whole State, but some of them go in the line of representing our territory: free school dining for all, and financed; providing more means, more resources, for mental health, and that is considered a priority within public health; protecting our territory, our coastline, and in favour of a moratorium on very high-voltage lines; and, of course, two proposals in Valencian key: the first is financing. Over the years, governments succeed in one sign and another, and funding remains an urgent problem. Financing is public services; financing is well-being; financing is ultimately equal to all citizens. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on financing. The second is the recovery of Valencian civil law. [[Applauds]] There are eight autonomous communities that already enjoy their own civil law; therefore, that we Valencians do not have our own civil law, which we had for many years, is a democratic anomaly that a progressive government should not allow. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u34	Thank you, President. Yesterday it was the turn of the debate, yesterday it was the turn of the speeches, today it is the turn to propose solutions from different groups. As my colleague Joan Baldoví has said, we have made a presentation of different topics. I am now going to focus on three motions for resolutions which seem to us to be of enormous importance, once Joan Baldoví has raised the generic issue of financing. First, we are going to insist over and over again that mental health is a problem and that what it needs is investment, at least a ratio of ten psychologists per 100,000 inhabitants, and, of course, that waiting lists in the public system are ten days and not more than three months. Secondly, we want to propose a subject which we consider to be of enormous importance, which is the freeness of school eateries in public education. This is a key measure of direct support to the family economy. Are we not asking for direct support to the family economy? For this is a key strategic measure, which also guarantees the right to a healthy diet - not a minor issue - of children, which favours the reconciliation that must be part of the educational project of the centres; it is not a mere benefit, it is part of the educational project. There are very successful experiences in Sweden and Finland of what it means to universalize the right to school meals. [[The Lord]] Finally, we put forward a series of very important measures in a clear bet, firstly, on energy sovereignty and, secondly, on the protection of our territory and especially of our seas. Because, ladies and gentlemen, combating climate change also means protecting marine biodiversity. Environmentally advanced policies of environmental governments, such as the Balearic Government or the Government of the Valencian Government, are working on different areas affecting the coast, such as the protection of marine soil, posidonia, the limitation of cruises or the creation of emission control zones. On the energy issue, this government has to be definitely firm, and we have asked for firmness from almost all groups, to contain the great benefits that electric companies are having at the cost of increasing the price of light. As we have pointed out, we have seen with good eyes both the tax announced by the President and the aid for the self-consumption of public buildings. What we propose is to bet clearly and definitively on the energy communities. Today, it is the most democratic and participatory way of lowering the bill for light, because it implies that neighbours and neighbours own energy; it means democratizing and reducing the impact of oligopolies that become agents of change, that also understand the functioning of the electricity market, which is crucial for them to become and form part of the change towards a more sustainable model of energy production and consumption.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u35	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u36	I'm on my way. We have also put forward a strategy on the very high-voltage lines across various territories. In short, today we bring proposals that aim to improve concrete aspects of people's daily lives, which is what we have here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u37	Thank you. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, after three days of debate on the state of the nation, one fully understands that it has not been held since 2015 and the world has not sunk. The truth is that the usefulness of this debate will be appreciated by the citizens, but of course, this debate has had little. It seemed to me that it was more about the Fair of the book, where everyone is going to put up their booth and will try to sell their book, because debate has not debated much. Now, I doubt there'll be a lot of buyers for these books. What am I going to tell you about the motions for resolutions? That those of PeCAT are magnificent, understand them, from 49 to 51. [[Laughter]] Of all those that are going to be approved, for look, here I have them, essentially will be: push, guide, approach, bet, promote, encourage, design, strengthen, improve, advance, continue to advance, strengthen, continue to strengthen, strengthen, continue to empower, continue, continue to strengthen, strengthen and continue to strengthen. [[shows a document]] Why? Because I am no longer saying in September, this afternoon no one is going to remember what we are going to approve, nor is it going to have any more significance. For those who yesterday were very happy - and looked at the desk of Unity Podemos - with the announcements of the president of the government, point 3 of the proposal 111 of the Socialist Party: Establish an exceptional and temporary tax of two years to the financial institutions on - listen - profits obtained in 2022 and 2023, derived from the increases in the interest rates of their loans to ensure a fair sharing of the burdens of war. Interest rates on their loans in 2022 and 2023. Listen, the profitability of the loans, of the rise in interest rates, is not going to be in 2022 or 2023, but is going to be much later. This is pure populism for those who do it and for those who buy it. They're not going to raise €1.5 billion. If you collect 150 million euros you can sing in your teeth. [[Laughter]] Really... Now, let's be calm because I guess tonight, what I've done has been done by investors in the IBEX stock exchange, and this afternoon the IBEX is going to recover its data from Tuesday morning, because the effectiveness of this we're going to check over the next few years. Now, the sale of the book is already done. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u39	Thank you. Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u40	Thank you, President. You are obsessed with President Puigdemont and I remind you that President Puigdemont is elected and is a free citizen in twenty-seven of the 27 Member States. Stop chasing democrats and applauding franchisors. Today I will briefly talk about three of the seven PRs that we have presented. First, in the debate of the Spanish nation we invite you to vote in favour of Catalonia, to stop coming here to beg and be able to implement our own policies. [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] [[a lady MP: Don't come!]] Secondly, we are presenting a PR on an issue that challenges us all. Every year thousands of people die of metastatic cancer, and we're not doing everything in our hands. That is why we present this PR, because helping on this issue is in our hands. There are innovative therapies that save lives or buy a little time, but these therapies sometimes do not arrive or sometimes are late. It cannot be that, being able to avoid it, people die waiting for an authorisation which in the Spanish State takes an average of 500 days, despite the fact that European legislation determines that the maximum period is six months. In Germany, for example, the average time limit is one hundred and twenty days. This situation is particularly desperate for thousands of women who suffer from breast cancer. I know that some of them are following this debate with great interest; from here we send them a strong hug and a lot, a lot of strength. I want to thank you too This is going to come out today, I am convinced of it. [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] Finally, we also put forward proposals for the self-employed. The pressure of this group, also small and medium-sized enterprises, is inexhaustible. What they need is air, what they need is more political action and less headlines; it makes no sense to continue suffocating those who are striving so hard to continue producing. There's a tsunami coming. Someone - it seems to me that Bildu's partner - also compared it to a tsunami in the form of an economic crisis, and while we are all seeing that the tsunami is coming, the PSOE is on the beach giving ice cream. They haven't anticipated anything. They haven't prepared the population for the coming crisis and, believe me, numbers are scary. I would like to remind you that at present almost 30% of the population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. In the case of the unemployed, this 30% increases to 60%. The Spanish Government is not being realistic with the autonomous. That is why we are presenting this motion for a resolution in which we propose to exempt self-employed persons with a net income below the minimum wage from the payment of the minimum quota. In fact, half of the autonomous members of the Spanish State receive less than the minimum wage. We also ask for a flat rate for the newly created self-employed, but also, and above all, for those self-employed who over the next five years have a net profit of less than 3000 euros. I'm on my way. I hope I can see it soon. [[ends your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. Visca Catalunya free.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u41	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u42	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. In the Spanish state the crises always, always, are paid by the middle and working classes; always. And while the working classes paid for the crises, the big companies, fortunes and banking corporations - to a large extent, guilty of the crisis - have come out of them richer. Ten years ago the rescue of Bankia and the rest of the financial system took place, more than 60 billion public money, more than 60 billion social cuts. Ten years later, they have not paid their debt, and banks and their advisors continue to get rich, while they continue to pursue and unravel the real victims of the crisis. And the paradigm of the privatization of profits and socialization of losses, the banking always wins, always wins; Florentino and the rest of the Bernabéu stage, and the IBEX 35 and the big electrics; in short, the oligopolies, the cartels of the regime of 78. A 78's regime that allows them to get away with decades of mafia practices, bargaining prices, building revolving doors, rescuing banks, Castor projects and Madrid highways. Can the Spanish Government change this? Yes, it can, by raising taxes to the rich and distributing wealth, ending tax havens such as Madrid de Ayuso, cutting military spending instead of social policies, forcing the rescued financial institutions to be a public service and to stop closing thousands of branches, stop firing thousands of workers and stop abusing wages and commissions; ending the privileges of the electric oligopoly, of the tax-defrauded amnestyists, of the paid commissioners, and, especially speaking of fraudsters and commissioners, of the Bourbons. [[Applauds]] In this sense, many of our motions for resolutions are in favour of eliminating inequality, because the wealth of the few means the misery of many, means precarious work, charging below cost, precarious wages, minimum pensions, lack of social rights, health queues, educational co-ops, self-employed suffocated workers, marginalized SMEs. [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] They are the two sides of the same coin: while some see their results account grow, others see prices and bills of basic goods grow. That is why, from the Republican Group, we propose in our motions for a resolution a tax on the big energy companies, which are already taking part in this crisis, and ending their abuses, defending self-consumption, the public recovery of hydroelectric plants, the energy communities and, of course, compensating the 62,000 families ruined by a state sold to the interests of oligopoly. [[Applauds]] That CAP funds go to active farmers, not landowners like the De Alba family, and that the food chain law is reviewed, so that the benefits of the countryside are for those who work it and not for vultures. To permanently stop evictions from vulnerable families without housing alternatives. Limit rental prices. Let the Sareb houses be a public park of social housing and protect the thousands of people who are going to pay and suffer the rise of the euribor. Salaries, pensions and benefits should rise equal to prices, and the social protection of the most vulnerable should be extended. To recover the compensation and the rest of the labor rights that Mariano Rajoy was charged and that the working class has not yet recovered. [[Applauds]] That once and for all the audit of the Social Security, to which the Government is obliged, be carried out with a deadline already expired. [[applause]] That all foreigners in an irregular situation may be citizens with rights and obligations. [[Applauds]] That the State comply once and for all with the financing of the law of dependency. That military spending be cut and social investment increased in order to be able to pay social rights. [[applause]] We see justice measures, and the vote against most of these proposals explains why much of Catalan citizenship has decided to abandon the Spanish monarchy and create a Catalan republic. [[Applauds]] And in the face of the dream of a better and fairer society - which we call the republic - the State's response was repression, beatings, imprisonment, exile. And this in the face of a peaceful and democratic independentist catalan movement, because you have created a false account of the violence in Catalonia in order to justify your violence against our people. In this connection, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe urges the Government of Spain to recognize that there was no violence on the part of citizens on 1 October, also urges its Government to reform the crimes of rebellion and sedition so as not to condemn the referendum, to fully pardon political prisoners, exiles and other persons prosecuted by the Court of Auditors. [[Applauds]] He also urges, of course, that we be stopped from spying. Above all, it urges them to dialogue and negotiate with the Government of Catalonia a solution based on democracy, human rights and without recourse to the Criminal Code. The problem with the 78's regime is that the solution is to recognize the nations that make up the Spanish State, to recognize the existence of Galicia, Euskal Herria and the Catalan countries as historical cultural and national realities, because the non-recognition of our nations is accompanied by the claim of Castilization. Spain is conceived as Castile and from Castile. Hence the radial map of all the infrastructures; hence the AVE from Madrid at any cardinal point works, but we still do not have the Mediterranean corridor. [[Applauds]] Hence the investments of Madrid and Castile are carried out before those of the Valencia Country, the Balearic Islands and the Pitiüses or Catalonia. That is why President Sánchez committed himself to promoting social housing on former military grounds in Madrid, while refusing to approve Esquerra Republicana's repeated demand to return all of our disused or infra-used barracks to make social projects such as housing or residences for the elderly. Ladies and gentlemen, we Catalans and Catalans do not want to face other territories, nor do we want to be more than anyone else. What we want is for the policies that affect our people and our people to be decided from our land and not from Madrid, because it is obvious,- and whoever has doubts to look at the electoral map - that we have different ways of seeing life and understanding politics, society and also the State in which we want to live. [[applause]] Mostly the Catalans and the Catalans do not want the Bourbon monarchy; we want a republic without kings and without privileges, without laws gags and without cloacas of the State. If they reject our proposals today, they reaffirm that, in order to achieve that society, there is no alternative to the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u43	Thank you. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u44	Good morning. Reviewing the debates that have taken place in this House, it is easy to see that the protagonists have always had a man's name and no traits that could mark diversity; costume and tie debates. In seven years many things have changed, and largely thanks to those who at that time, without entering that suit and tie, have put the body to stop evictions, warn of the climate crisis, demand our sexual freedom and our reproductive freedom, defend labor conquests, public services. We need more bodies and more voices in this rostrum in the next state debate, because that diversity and that will for collective construction are undoubtedly the best of our people. That is why I would like to comment here on four of the fifteen resolutions that our parliamentary group has made and which have to do with that diverse people who are proud. One is that we want education for all; that we want a public system from 0 to 3 that is universal, that is free; that we want equity when it comes to training in all cycles and that it reaches all peoples on an equal footing, yes, and also all neighbourhoods, and that the principles governing human rights are upheld. That is to be educating from a gender perspective, to be educating in diversity as a value, to be deepening in our democratic memory. I also say with pride, after reading the 138 resolutions, that our parliamentary group, the Confederal Group, is the only one that has devoted a specific resolution to the right to access to culture for all citizens. [[Applauds]] It has done so because it knows that guaranteeing culture is guaranteeing the possibilities of emancipation and also guaranteeing the rights of those who make it possible as an economic engine, but also as a social engine. We are proud of our multiculturality and we are also proud of our multilingualism. That is why we speak different languages and it is a pride - it is an ayalga, as we say in Asturias - it is a value and we want to defend the rights of all speakers, they speak co-official languages or their own languages. We defend the officiality of the Asturian and the Galician-Asturian and we accompany the recognition of the Aragonese language, proud of our languages, of all. [[Applauds]] And we are proud of the feminist movement, proud of women's struggle. That is why we propose a feminist state resolution, with education with a gender perspective, with guaranteed sexual and reproductive rights, redistribution of wealth, with feminist general budgets, with lives free of violence, lives free of machismo, racism, LGBTIphobia. I say one more thing, and with this I close, President. The ultra-right leader said that women in this government are more afraid than ever. I can't tell you this because early morning Spain doesn't seem to have sat in the chair, but already you would like to see us with fear, already you would like us to go that hallucination in black and white with your leg broken at home. We are not afraid, we occupy the public space that belongs to us, we fight for our rights without shaking our pulse and we are, we are not going to leave.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u45	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u46	And we're going to keep doing politics for social justice, because we come from a genealogy of witches that they couldn't burn. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] And we will do so with all the honor and pride for that feminist country, fighter, multilingual and diverse. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u47	Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u48	Good morning. We have gone from this lost decade of slums, corruption and austerity to a new time of rights, social state, investment and honesty. Those who said that if the minimum wage were raised, there would be a destruction of employment; that of the ERW we would go to the ERW; that the labor reform will cause massive collective layoffs, all of them lied. Liberal dogmas have shown that they basically generate poverty, inequality and lies. Everything was fake. We govern better by protecting, modernizing and expanding, but we don't have enough. That is why we are presenting three main blocs today. The first, only the public saves the public. Pact for public services, shielding health and improving the conditions of the profession, in this case, of health, mental health, oral health. Health cannot depend on purchasing power or skin color. It is a universal right. [[Applauds]] Health expenditure, therefore, 7.5 % of gross domestic product and primary care as a matter of utmost priority. We also have a special fund of EUR 10 billion to strengthen public health and also public education. Let's hope that this fund doesn't need Biden to go through any kind of institution. Second bloc: care, democracy and protection. We are talking about shielding the purchasing power; of the redistribution, in this case, of public employees, which must be increased; of minimum living income; of minimum and non-contributory pensions, which must also rise; of IPREM, which must continue to rise to at least the interprofessional minimum wage. And we talk about more care: family law. This means extending birth and adoption permits; raising allowance; a paid benefit of seven days a year for care; dependency; extending the benefits of families, in this case, numerous to single parents and single mothers with two children. Let us also talk about the third large block, work with rights and quality. This inflation crisis is mainly caused by the astronomical benefits of large companies. The income pact is more protection for workers, not a summer discount, as some are proposing. We are talking basically about a very positive impact of labour reform, a record in social security membership, a record of conversion from temporary to indefinite, a reduction in unemployment, also between women and young people, but it is clearly not enough. That is why we are ambitious and want a new status of work in order to respond to the new challenges. We talk about a law of the use of time to work, basically, taking it with life or rather that life does not become a slave. We are also talking about the right to unemployment benefit for women domestic workers, a real historical debt; the participation of women workers so that democracy does not stay at the door of the workplace...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u49	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u50	I'm finishing up. ... of the ecological and fair transition, of the national strategy for self-employed workers in this case. We propose, in short, and with this I conclude, measures for a healthier, fairer economy, for a freer, more autonomous and more joyful society, because joy is always revolutionary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u51	Thank you. Mr. Bueno Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u52	Good morning, everyone. This block of three resolutions is based on three issues on which we in our parliamentary group believe it is necessary to legislate in order to further advance the model of society that we believe to be necessary. The first has to do with secularism. Spain is an aconfessional state according to the Spanish Constitution. However, four decades later, we see how the Catholic Church continues to enjoy privileges in the legal, tax, economic, educational, cultural fields, because it does not enter into the amount of public funds it receives for its financing, issues all of which we believe are incompatible with this constitutional principle of confessionality and which are rooted in the 1953 Concordat and the agreements signed in the 1970s. Spanish society, forty years later, has changed. According to the latest CIS barometer, 40% of Spaniards and Spaniards consider non-religious people. We are therefore faced with an anomaly and an important social consensus, which is increasingly broad, calling for this principle of confession to be materialized once and for all and for progress to be made towards the secularism of the State. That is one of the commitments also reflected in the governance agreement between the Podemos and the Socialist Party and is the fundamental objective of this resolution: to implement a law on freedom of conscience that guarantees the secularity of the State and neutrality against all religious confessions, among other issues. [[Applauds]] The second of these resolutions has to do with the betting houses that have expanded uncontrollably through the working-class and humble neighborhoods of all the geography of Spain. The Ministry of Consumer Affairs has launched a regulation of advertising and gambling sponsorship that puts us at the forefront of international protection, but the problem arising from these issues encompasses many more aspects. One of them has to do with the worrying proliferation of gambling houses in the educational environment. Precisely this resolution seeks, in cooperation with the autonomous communities, to limit the opening of these betting houses in the environment of these educational centers, counting on the opinion of the associations of players in rehabilitation as well as of the experts, who must be the ones who set the necessary meters of separation between the educational centers and these betting houses. Finally, a fundamental issue that has to do with the financing of the municipalities, which are a fundamental part of the State and which have been demanding a fair financing model for decades. We believe that, in this context of climate crisis, we must face the reforms necessary for the financing of municipalities without losing sight of the climate and energy crisis and also facilitating the creation of energy communities.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u53	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u54	I'm on my way. We therefore propose not only amending the legislative framework for the financing of municipalities, but also allowing for self-consumption. These are the objectives of these three resolutions, which, as I say, are on the road to protecting our people, which must be not only the objective of these resolutions, but also the fundamental objective of the Government's action. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u55	Thank you so much. I give the floor to Mr Gómez-Kingdom Varela.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u56	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If there is one area that has become central to politics in recent years and especially in recent months, it is geopolitics and international politics. I do not think anyone can be surprised if I say that not only to our parliamentary group, but to a very important part of this country's society, he has not been enthusiastic about the different moves and movements that have taken place in our country in recent months with regard to international politics. Obviously, no one understands, from the humanitarian point of view, from the solidarity point of view, from the point of view of commitment to international law and from the strategic point of view, the turn we have taken towards Morocco, turning our backs on the Sahara and, ultimately, facing an important country in North Africa such as Algeria. I think it is up to us to ask some questions in the field of international policy. Are we interested in a world in which there are two large blocs, rather than two large hegemonic countries, and in which the European Union and Spain have little or no intention? Are we interested in an increasingly dangerous, increasingly armed world with an increasing risk of nuclear explosion? Are we interested in betting everything on a military alliance that until recently Mr. Macron said he was brain dead and that, moreover, we can turn against him in a few months if he is back in the White House sitting a trembling and extremist government? And finally, without relying solely on us, would it not make more sense, instead of simply insisting on the war race, to strive to avoid the chronification of a war in Ukraine that only brings more death to Ukraine and also more famine, more inflation and more energy and economic dependence? [[Applauds]] As far as migration is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the unbearable images we have seen in the Melilla fence call us all, at least the Democrats. We must be satisfied and relieved after what has been heard in this debate. We can only rejoice and join in that and say with the President, to say with this Parliament and also with the United Nations that we are calling again, to demand an investigation, which can only start from the shame, the repudiation and the condemnation not only of the thirty-seven dead dead in the Melilla fence, but of all the dead in the Mediterranean and at the borders. [[Applauds]] So, we insist, let us move away from the country of the fences and the hot returns and let us be that proud and supportive country that received the Aquarius. And if we talk about war, we have to talk about fiscal policy, about who has to bear the burden of war. Can we allow them to be the usual ones or do they have to be the ones who have so much that they often have enough? In that sense, we can only celebrate the taxes on the bank and the taxes on the electrics that have arrived, but we have to go further. We have to avoid tax desertion, tax dumping, make a fairer model and also pick up what fellow Valencians are systematically saying: that it is a profoundly unequal model at territorial level. [[Applauds]] I'm done with Galicia: boarding, toll bonus to AP 9, return of the Pazo de Meirás, ILO agreement on fisheries. There are many measures and, above all, thousands of Galicians who have seen their precarious contracts become indefinite thanks to labour reform, like so many Spaniards. It is therefore noted that the most progressive Galicia is sitting in the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u57	Thank you. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have missed a reference in this debate to the state of our environment. We are in the midst of an unprecedented heat wave with record temperatures, and it is an obvious symptom of climate change. It is the most intense and extensive wave of heat we have ever experienced in the history of our country since there have been records. [[Rumors]] Since there's records, that's the way it is. Ladies and gentlemen, I am about to ask the President to turn off the air conditioner for a few hours to see if that way we end up with the climate negation that still nests in this House. It seems to me that those criticisms are really made... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u59	Wait a minute, Mr. Garmendia. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u60	Policies against climate change are not, as you say, whims of an extreme ecological left; they are the need of this planet to survive. I remind you that climate change not only makes the viability of species and ecosystems impossible, it also kills people. In the heat wave of June, 714 people died, according to the Carlos III Institute of Health, of which, by the way, 208 in the Comunidad de Madrid. And I also remind you, who shout so much, that the biggest forest fire we have suffered - unfortunately, on our mountains are multiplying - has been this year, for the moment, that of the Sierra de la Culebra, which has affected more than 30,000 hectares in a community in which you govern, by the way. [[pointing to the bench of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] So stop saying that the fight against climate change is a whim of the globalist elites and assume the need to fight it, because unfortunately the evolution of emissions is still very negative. We are, without a doubt, at a crossroads with the crisis posed by the war in Ukraine; a crossroads that cannot be solved by looking through the rearview mirror and returning to technologies of the past, which is what is proposed from the right. That is why we are presenting two concrete resolutions on energy, one because it is necessary to break the energy oligopoly with a public energy company - we are presenting a resolution in favour of a public energy company - and the other to urge the Spanish Government to vote against the energy taxonomy of the European Union that supports nuclear and natural gas; natural gas, because it is a fossil fuel that contributes more to climate change, and nuclear energy, because - it is a pity that Mr Bal is not here, who says that being antinuclear is a dogma, when I wonder whether being pronuclear is not, because some ideas are dogma for some liberals and others are not - in any case it is not a nuclear or antinuclear issue, it is simply a matter of nuclear energy not even arriving... [[applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u61	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u62	... nor from an economic point of view is it feasible to solve the climate crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u63	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u64	'I've seen things you wouldn't believe. Attack ships in flames beyond Orion. I've seen C-rays shine in the dark near Tannhäuser Gate. ' I have seen in these strange days - I have seen it - Mr Rufián defend the family, even with jacket and tie; I have seen a spokesman of We can deny that he was ever liberal, when he was, and the other declare that he is, when he has never been; I have seen the PP defend the nuclear after closing Garoña and having celebrated it; I have seen the Minister of Defense say that there were mafias of human trafficking, after having called us xenophobes to say the same thing months before. [[Applauds]] I have seen the Minister for Transitional Ecology criticise the European Union for the green classification of nuclear energy, by the way, without anyone calling it a hydrophobic; I have seen the First Vice-President of the Economy admit that inflation will be unravelled for months, after being for months denying us and touching us by saying what was coming. [[Applauds]] And I have seen, I swear to you, that I have seen, the President of the Government, the same one who said that the Ministry of Defence had to close, now defend VOX's old proposal to invest at least 2% of the gross domestic product in the Ministry of Defence, assuming one of our own points. [[applause]] Yes, I have seen things that you would not believe, to all who insulted us, to assume our postulates with a few months of delay. All those moments in which we were criticized will be lost in time, like tears in the rain. [[Applauds]] because this debate has served to remind us that in so many things VOX was right. Today, after seeing what we have all seen, some motions for resolutions are debated and voted in this House. Ours is necessarily of total rejection, it's called that and that's how we feel about it. I believe that our first obligation is to claim the role of this House, the role of the Legislature, which is more important than ever, because never before had a President of the Government come this far. At the request of VOX, the Constitutional Court censored that Pedro Sánchez had cancelled control of Congress at the time when the executive had accumulated more power in the history of democracy. Never before had a President of the Government so boldly swept the work of the Courts through the abuse of the use of the figure of the royal decree law; never before had the activity of this House been so cynically hijacked, with the blocking of the processing of more than fifty rules with the rank of law, and never before had Congress been subjected to the blackmail to which this Government is subject. We remember that for the reception of European funds this government has committed itself in Brussels, without even asking here, to pass more than sixty rules with a law rank that can only be passed in this House. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in democracy respect for the separation of powers is not a whim, it is not an option, it is not an accident, it is a basic foundation of the health of the rule of law, and the government without respecting that principle has only one name, and that name is that of autocrat. That is why this debate on motions for resolutions cannot be held without a previous demand: that the role that should never have been lost be returned to this House. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is going badly. The context is not easy, the truth, but it is difficult to imagine a Government capable of aggravating things further to put us in a worse political, economic, social and institutional situation, and, frankly, I find it difficult to imagine such unbelievable, unself-critical, self-congratulating and substantial motions for resolutions as have been brought to this Parliament by the parliamentary groups supporting this Government. Since VOX we have presented, yes, a total, global and frontal rejection to the direction in which they want to continue to lead our country. Spain needs to leave behind the ideological sectarianism that for decades, driven by the left and assumed by the right-wing so-called, has turned Spain into a frustrated experiment of the evil so-called feminism, of the climate religion, of relativism and of globalism, so that, from now on, it can begin to attend to what really represent national emergencies. We refer to them in our motions for resolutions. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain cannot continue to be subjected to a continuous and structural blackmail accepted by Pedro Sánchez, which has made the governability of our country depend precisely on those who want to end it, on those who just a year ago gave a coup d'état in Catalonia or on the political arm of ETA. Spain cannot be in the hands of those who want to destroy it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That is why, as the rest of the Western countries are already doing, it is urgent to put an end to a design problem that is structural. 'The Constitution - says its article 2 - is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation', and that unity is being violated, ladies and gentlemen. In the motions for resolutions of the VOX Group, we want to ensure that the Spanish people are equal where they live and refer to different areas: in the health field, for example, by providing a portfolio of common services throughout Spain, or in the field of water policy, by guaranteeing the supply of water to all Spaniards through the implementation of a national hydrological plan. [[Applauds]] But we must also ensure in other areas that the Spaniards are once again equal before the law, as guaranteed by article 14 of our Constitution, because, ladies and gentlemen, gender laws, which establish a presumption of truth to a party, to the party who denounces, erode the procedural guarantees of the defendant, trampling on the most elementary principles of the law established more than two thousand years ago. The gender laws that preach real equality attack above all this fundamental value, that of equality, generating different legal consequences in the face of the same acts. Gender laws, which claim to defend victims, leave many victims who have been declared by the left that they appear to deserve less protection: women attacked by men who are not their partners or by other women who are, mothers or grandmothers abused by their children, women attacked by strangers. Don't they deserve the same protection? [[Applauds]] We therefore call for the repeal of gender laws and their replacement by a domestic violence law, the abolition of the Ministry of Equality and the end of indoctrination in the classrooms. Our third motion for a resolution refers to economic policy, or rather to its absence. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not Putin, it's not Franco and it's not the virus. It is you, Pedro Sánchez, your Government and your erratic economic policy that explains to a great extent the biggest economic collapse in any country, first; the delay in recovery, then, and finally, that Spain will be the last OECD country to recover its pre-crisis GDP level, which will not reach until 2024. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government has triggered public debt, putting it in a situation of extreme vulnerability. From 35 % of the debt on GDP that we had in 2017 the debt has increased to 118 % in 2021, but it is that the AIReF warns of the consolidation of a structural deficit that would trigger the debt in the medium term up to 140 %. But the worst is that today there are forty thousand companies less than before the pandemic and, on top of that, they are now paying more taxes than ever, with a greater debt that unfortunately they will not be able to pay and merely trying to survive. Nor has this government been able to prevent or at least moderate the impoverishment that is causing inflation, which was not a cyclical or transitory phenomenon and which reached 10.2% in June, its highest level in thirty-seven years. The result is that, far from recovering the levels of the pandemic, with the highest unemployment rate in Europe, with a fiscal effort 11 points higher and without reducing political spending, we have been placed in a compromised situation, which will not be corrected by assaulting the National Institute of Statistics. We have been demanding it and we reiterate it today, because there is no time to waste: the Government must speed up structural reforms, stop attacking those who employ and generate wealth and develop a medium- and long-term fiscal strategy that realistically and crediblely guarantees the sustainability of public accounts. But that, of course, would begin by putting an end to the Government of the twenty-two ministries and to the greater political spending of democracy, by undoing the client network that has so boldly articulated and by renouncing those thousands of advisers, political positions and privileges on which this first government of the coalition of democracy has based. He has no authority to demand an income pact that has deployed the greatest political expense in history, which in the midst of the worst economic crisis since the Civil War has not hesitated to raise its salary and who has turned its day-to-day into a parade of privileges, such as the obscene trip to New York in Falcon of those who said they renounce the privilege of taxi. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have to choose either the welfare state or the welfare of politicians, and in VOX we have no doubt. That is why we urgently propose to carry out an audit of public expenditure and to eliminate any unnecessary political expenditure, in particular for political parties, trade unions and employers, which should be financed from the funds of their membership quotas. [[Applauds]] We must recover the holy fear of deficit, an expression so old that some of you will not even be remembered, as you will not remember the last time Spain had a surplus. You would all be fired in any company that throws red numbers year after year as its managers continue to squander the money of their shareholders, which in this case, ladies and gentlemen, are the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Spain must regain the lost confidence and, for that, in addition to regaining the balance of public accounts, it must regain the prestige of its institutions. The deterioration to which Pedro Sánchez has been subjected to our institutions, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, the Attorney General's Office, the CIS, Spanish Radiotelevision, the Civil Guard, the Court of Auditors, the National Market Commission, even strategic companies such as Indra, but also the Bank of Spain, the AIReF or the Constitutional Court itself, which they now want to control, is unqualified. None of them have escaped Pedro Sánchez's control attempt or his maneuvers to control them. But most particularly, the assault on the judiciary must be halted. The institutions must be shielded from the interference of the Government, which is also, indeed, a national emergency. We cannot wait any longer, we must reform the system of election of the members of the governing body of judges, so that judges are elected by the judges and from among the judges. [[Applauds]] It must be ensured that the investigation of criminal proceedings continues to be conducted by judges and not by the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, which we already know is dependent on. We must put an end to the politicization of the Constitutional Court and demand that it settle judgements expeditiously, not by ten years of delay, in some cases. And it is that the good functioning of the judicial system is vital for the health of democracy, as is the good functioning of the energy market for its economic sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen, this government's energy policy is a major waste of money. When they brought their climate change law we were the only ones to oppose the self-injury assumed in the name of climate religion and the only ones to defend our energy sovereignty and not the progressive ideas that are condemning our homes and our industry to ruin. We denounce the unwillingness to give up - even to ban - the exploitation and exploration of our own resources, while China and India fire to infinity their emissions or while we buy from France and Morocco nuclear and coal energy, respectively. [[Applauds]] Today, once again reason is imposed. Today, once again, VOX was right: Spain pays the most expensive electricity in Europe and Europe rectifies and declares gas and nuclear as green energy, even if you do not like it. But the Spaniards don't have to pay for their climate dogmatism on the bill for light. Therefore, we propose to implement urgently a national energy sovereignty plan that prioritizes the interests of Spain and the Spanish, because it is common sense. Spain's interest should also have governed our foreign policy, but it has not. The Government has preferred to devote our foreign action to promoting its ideological dogmas in a feminist foreign policy. And what results have we achieved? In just four years, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has laid waste to a position of more than three hundred years in Gibraltar, has handed over Western Sahara to Morocco, putting an end to the position maintained by Spain for almost fifty years and leaving in the wrong place one of our largest gas suppliers, and has squandered Spain's position of prestige in relation to Ibero-America, maintaining a double game with the worst Ibero-American dictatorships and abandoning our Cuban, Venezuelan or Nicaraguan brothers. And when it seemed impossible to go beyond it, it has betrayed our allies in the war of Ukraine, firing gas purchases to Russia and dragging feet in the shipment of material to Ukraine. Spain has to regain its lost international prestige, be recognized by our partners as a reliable partner and expressly assert our interests on the world stage. And that also implies responsibility. That's why VOX has been defending increasing defence investment for a long time, reaching 2% of GDP. Once again, VOX was alone defending the need to provide our Armed Forces with the necessary resources. That is why we are glad today that many of you are right when you rectify. [[Applauds]] This is also the case with immigration. For years, VOX alone warned about the effects of the migration invasion encouraged for decades, which is adding to our neighborhoods, which do not dignify to tread the political elites, in very dangerous areas. Therefore, you do not hesitate to propose a massive regularization or to propose the repopulation of Spain abandoned with waves of immigrants. That is why its 2050 Plan calls for 250,000 emigrants to be attracted in the coming years. And that is why we refuse to see what is happening in the multicultural ghettos, which are already a threat to the safety of our citizens in many European cities.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u65	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u66	Thank you for being as flexible with me as with Podemos, Mr. President. The future of our children, ladies and gentlemen, and the future of Spain we play it today, and just as it is not a good idea to change mathematics for socio-affective education, it is not a good idea to confuse our country's priorities with ideological dogmas. Today, with these motions for resolutions, we have the opportunity to reorient the priorities to address the real problems of Spain and the Spanish, and to respond to national emergencies.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u67	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u68	Finished. I have enormous faith in Spain, we all have faith in VOX, but there is a previous emergency that we have to deal with before any previous resolution, which is to abandon the Pedro Sánchez government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u69	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u70	I'm done with this, Mr. President. The road ahead...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u71	Finish it at once, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u72	... won't be free of difficulties, but we know what to do and we are the party with the most qualified professionals to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u73	All right. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u74	Those who have nothing more to contribute do not bother and leave as soon as possible, because it is time for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u75	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state of the nation is over, and we have seen the same government fractured and faced in recent years, the same one that is leading our country adrift. This government, led by Mr Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen, will pass into history by two things, by lies and by incompetence. And here is the summary of a government that is taking Spain to the depths of an economic crisis, which is worsening proportionally during the time Mr Sánchez is in power. During this debate we have seen two models. One model is that of the Socialist Party, which is able to ally itself with whoever it is to remain in power, capable of turning to the populist left without squandering, losing its principles, able to lie several times about the same fact and able to push measures that only serve, ladies and gentlemen, to sink further. And another model is that of the People's Party, that of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, able to offer a solid alternative, with clear proposals to get Spain out of the crisis. We are a party with a government vocation, a party - and you know it - with a management guarantee. We have demonstrated this by taking Spain out twice from two very serious crises, and we will do it again. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in the People's Party we make a firm opposition, we firmly control the government, but also with respect, because in our democracy both concepts must be compatible. We are making a responsible opposition, which leads us to ensure that the institutions that are of all, that do not belong to any party, but on which this Government wants to continually exercise unconstitutional challenges in order to arrogate competences that do not belong to it, something totally unacceptable. See justice, see CNI, see CIS, Post Offices, Indra, INE and even the management of European funds. They try to extend their tentacles to any area that can escape their control. These rinsings of Mr Sánchez's government are unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, and before them we will debate, appeal, appeal and strongly oppose them. For this to change, we offer you one of our motions for resolutions, because the People's Party is a party where you will find firmness. They will find firmness to make opposition, firmness to govern when we rule without losing our principles and firmness to defend democratic values, which must never be a currency of change to sustain any government, ever, ladies and gentlemen. That really makes us different. But, look, we don't like those differences, we don't enjoy them, we don't like to see such a radical PSOE, transformed into a hostage of populism, negotiating with Bildu and putting into check the constitutional consensus and the state's own institutions. That is why we are and exercise the alternative; let it not remain for us. We offer you pacts and agreements to straighten the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, from the opposition, pacts and agreements that are ready to be implemented as soon as President Feijóo arrives to the Government and agreements to help the Spaniards. That is what the motions for resolutions we have tabled consist of. That's all right, ladies and gentlemen, confrontational. It is already right to put the spirit of the Transition in check, as they do permanently from the Government. There are already unilateral decisions that exclude any kind of agreement. Let us return, ladies and gentlemen, to the path of dialogue. We will regain consensus to strengthen our country, think of the Spaniards and put their needs at the centre of political life - at the centre of political life -. [[Applauds]] Let us offer the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, a political, economic and social alternative based on moderation, with which a large majority of the Spanish are identified. Spanish families need proposals to alleviate the effects of the economic crisis. So far, the measures of the Government have been insufficient, as all international agencies indicate and as we all know, ladies and gentlemen. Fuels are in the clouds, light is on and inflation is 10.2%, the highest level in the past thirty-seven years. It is an inflation that has allowed the government to raise 15,559 million euros extra in the five months of this year; in just five months. Therefore, we propose to help the most needy families by deflating the IRPF rate in the first three tranches to specifically favour low and middle incomes. We also propose to establish a new personal and family minimum, specific and temporary in nature, which decreases as citizens' incomes increase. Faced with the situation of middle and low incomes in particular, the autonomous and Spanish families need a government to set an example: those who have to make decisions cannot appear before the eyes of the Spanish with a cabinet of twenty-two ministries. We therefore propose a reduction in the Government and a reduction in the number of senior officials and advisers. [[Applauds]] We, from the People's Party, think what the vast majority of Spaniards think, and I think it is not the same as the Socialist Party thinks: public money is of someone, it is of all Spaniards, and we owe it to them, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has some incredible professionals in the healthcare system. Therefore, we propose to ensure that the system of choice of places of MIR does not leave empty places. We ask, ladies and gentlemen, for a great national agreement on shock measures to deal with the problems related - that exist, that are identified - with the specialty of Family and Community Medicine. Health personnel deserve all our thanks and support, and we have wanted to reflect this in our motion for a resolution. Education is also a State policy and, therefore, we have an obligation to draft major agreements and abandon these recurring models of taxation, such as the current model in the field of education. That can't be, ladies and gentlemen. We propose that parents have the freedom to choose education for their children. A unique curriculum is needed for all of Spain, and we will not allow independence to continue to be believed above the law, with the acquiescence of the Government. We are not going to allow this, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, to be so clear. [[Applauds]] That the law be enforced, that the Government implement the law. We also ask for a unique test throughout the Spanish territory for the evaluation of high school and access to university. They'll agree with me that it's totally reasonable. I would also like to stress the need for free education from 0 to 3 years. We therefore ask the Government for adequate funding to ensure the necessary support for all families in Spain to have access to this education from 0 to 3 years. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, we are at a critical moment with regard to the energy situation, which has been the subject of a great deal of debate - it is natural, because the situation so demands - both concerning the efficiency of our system and the energy costs that Spanish families and companies are now bearing. Our objectives are two, ladies and gentlemen: to reduce energy costs and ensure economic sustainability and to respect commitments to combat climate change. By the way, we are here with a resolution by the Socialist Party which introduces the free transport allowance in the energy sector in close proximity. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, this is not serious. Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party we are committed to quiet reforms that change the government's energy policy, so far clearly erratic, by reviewing the useful lives of the five nuclear power plants operating in Spain, which generate 20% of electricity, and by completing the energy and penetration of renewable energy, by boosting biogas and hydrogen. That is why, in addition to the VAT on light, it is necessary to reduce gas, district heating and cooling and biogas to 5% and to keep all available energies to the maximum of their capacity so that they can lower prices. Nor do we forget the electro-intensive industry. There are thousands of jobs at stake, ladies and gentlemen. We have to watch this. We need to put in place measures such as the People's Party's motion for a resolution. This industry has seen its costs go up as its competitiveness collapsed. That is why we are proposing a new statute for intensive electric and gas consumers to avoid the relocation of industry and to match the costs to industry in neighbouring countries. That the government is not competent does not mean that the industry should not be competent either. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the primary sector is in a similar situation. We propose greater coordination with the European institutions in the drafting of the new common agricultural policy, as well as a national water pact. We need to start the pipelines of the dams that are already built. We call for sensitivity with the rural world, with more European funds, real compliance with the food chain law and strong support for the fisheries sector. We propose a greater investment effort in means to fight fire, persistent and as intense as ever, ladies and gentlemen. We also call for a national strategy to address the demographic challenge. We need European funds to reach the Spanish and not to be lost in bureaucratic procedures. [[Applauds]] That is why we call for maximum respect for governance in decision-making, for public accounts to be realistic and effective in combating the crisis and helping the Spaniards. It is vital for Spain to create stable and quality employment, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, stable and quality employment that does not need the statistical makeup of any Ministry of Labour. That is why we are calling for a shock plan in favour of employment, with cross-cutting measures to promote young jobs - we are behind the back of Europe in youth unemployment - support for the long-term unemployed and tax cuts for self-employed workers, also simplifying procedures and bureaucracy. We also call for sustainability for pensions, ensuring compliance with the agreements adopted in the Toledo Pact. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has been in the worst economic, labor, social and emotional conditions since 2018. That is known to those of us who live in reality, not the Government. Families are forgotten, women's inequality has increased and new factors of social exclusion, such as digital disconnection, continue to grow. In this regard, plans are needed, as is the minimum living income, which has reached just over 13% of people below the poverty line. This is a government failure. What social shield is that, ladies and gentlemen? No one believes them anymore. The government is a machine for generating frustrations. Its shield is for the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, not for families. Social and fiscal policies are needed against poverty and exclusion based on employment, training, education, administrative cooperation, tax cuts and tax deductions. A plan against female unemployment and effective policies against child poverty were needed. And in foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, what is it that a Secretary of State of the Sánchez Government protested against NATO the day before the summit began? The NATO summit was a success, but this was a monumental step in the right direction, ladies and gentlemen of the Government. The bad news is it's a permanent picture of the government. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that in foreign and defence policy, in state policy, they will find more support in the People's Party than in their own partners. In the People's Party there is a responsible alternative. We are responsible, because we work for our country and because we offer state agreements, agreements that do not even have within the government itself; this is the case and all Spaniards are seeing it. The People's Party is committed to fulfilling our foreign policy and defence commitments, unlike half of the Government. And we express our full support for the Armed Forces for the extraordinary work they are doing, which is also being done by the security forces and bodies of the State, to whom from here we want to show our support and our gratitude. [[applause]] We support their actions, especially the latest ones carried out at our borders to defend legality before the immigration mafias. Similarly, we also announce our support for their demands for wage improvements, within the framework of the wage equalization agreement which the People's Party has set in motion and which the Socialist Party is not fulfilling, as we also show our full support for prison officials to advance the improvements they need in their working conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain also needs more legal certainty. With this Government, the legal security framework, which is so important to defend our freedoms, but also to attract investment and that the economy can generate more employment, is constantly being broken every day. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore call for the adoption, among other areas related to legal certainty, of an organic law against illegal occupation that protects private property and accelerates the eviction of the okupas in a serious, rigorous manner, also establishing protection measures for the most vulnerable families. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing the reform of Article 49 of the Spanish Constitution, a reform which we consider essential and indefatigable, a reform which aims to remove the diminished term to refer to persons with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party - it is clear that we do so every day, not only in this rostrum, but from the thousands of public offices that are defending Spain and freedom and our democracy throughout our territory - we defend the Constitution, our democratic transition, the state of self-government, the memory, dignity and justice of the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] That is what we do every day and that is what is stated in our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been and is being difficult times. We are suffering three crises of a lot, and Mr Sánchez has a lot of responsibility: an economic crisis, with high debt and inflation, combined with ineffective, insufficient and contradictory measures - today Brussels has just lowered growth expectations by 1.3 points - a social crisis, with the highest unemployment rate in the European Union and the indicators of inequality and social exclusion triggered, and a political-institutional crisis resulting from the institutional degradation caused by the government's decisions, most of them taken unilaterally by Mr Sánchez. We, the People's Party, are offering fifteen motions for resolutions which constitute genuine state pacts for the benefit of the Spaniards, for the benefit of freedom, for the benefit of equality. We represent, ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Mr President - a political change that is already underway in society and that is unstoppable. Before a decomposed and exhausted president because of his partners, we present a solid alternative to the Spaniards, that of Alberto Núñez Feijóo... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u77	Your Honor, you must finish, please. Focus now on the end, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u78	I'll be right there. Mr. Sánchez said he didn't want to talk about the past, but what he doesn't really want to talk about is the future. It is a future that we believe to be promising, because it will not be written by the Socialist Party government, a future that will require joint efforts of responsibility and much work to get our country out of the pit where the Socialist Party has put it, this time assisted by Podemos. But here is the People's Party, which, as I told you before, has taken Spain twice out of a very strong crisis...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u79	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u80	...and we'll do it again. Let no one doubt that with the support and agreement of all the Spaniards...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u82	...we're gonna get it. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Prolonged applause.-Mr.Mariscal Anaya: Very well!-Mrs.Montesinos de Miguel: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u83	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Crespin Rubio.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u84	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important what we say and, in these days of debate on the state of the nation, which is now over, we have said many things, but more important than what we say is what we do, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialists therefore hope that, beyond words, when voting on the resolutions tabled by the various groups, and in particular those tabled by the Socialists, your ladies and gentlemen, will act responsibly and in the service of the citizens to whom we represent. Our priority in this exercise is clear, ladies and gentlemen. Our resolutions, which are clearly progressive and reformative, are all aimed, without exception, at the protection of the working middle class in a situation like the one we live in, a situation of great uncertainty. If we do not stop the war, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot, at least we can help Spanish families and small and medium-sized enterprises to live their daily lives. [[Applauds]] You all know what were and are the priorities of the right when crises arise and you also know what ours are. Some of you, right-wing gentlemen, prefer to save the bank and we believe that public resources should be used to help families, workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applauds]] Some of you, the conservative bench, don't have the blush of giving money to families with more income to send your children to the private and we allocate those funds to the families they struggle to reach at the end of the month. [[Applauds]] Some, like you, in the face of uncertainty and crisis, protect large corporations and emphasize the role of large companies in creating jobs, and we emphasize the role of workers, that of citizens in general, as real drivers of the economy of this country, and we always promote the contribution of more who has the most, and hence the tax on large energy companies or banking. [[Applauds]] We, ladies and gentlemen, are generating ecological and universal mobility in transport services, demonstrating that this government is moving in the face of adversities. They don't like us remembering, Mr. Rojas, but of course we want to talk about the past. If we want to talk about the past and I'm going to do it, because we don't forget it. We do not forget that they left the pensioners alone by bringing their families and grandchildren forward. Therefore, we propose the sustainability of the system and the rise of pensions according to the CPI. We do not forget that many young people left their careers. For us, therefore, scholarships are the best antidote to inequality and are the defence of equal opportunities. [[Applauds]] We do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that thousands of workers and companies have fallen and that they have ended their expectations for the future: there were unemployed people over fifty-five years old who never again had a new job opportunity. Therefore, in this crisis our bet is the ERTE, the rise of the minimum living income, the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage and the approval of a labor reform. We do not forget the families in the queues of the social services so that they did not cut off the light or tens of thousands of families who lost their home and were released. Believe me, that was really hard. I was mayor of my people at the time and there were queues of desperate citizens seeking help. But you know what? That for the municipalities the people of those tails, men, many women and many children, have their own names and surnames. We do not forget the enormous impact that the crisis had on the mental health of hundreds of thousands of citizens or that they then, as they have now, increased suicides. It is therefore necessary to establish a territorial cooperation programme to ensure mental health. We do not forget the increase in inequality resulting from the financial crisis, the agreements with social entities and the agreements with the school eaters of the public education network to combat child poverty. That is why our proposals for rights and social protection combat child poverty and shield the protection of the most vulnerable through what we already know as the social shield. Only a fair recovery is the one they will have at our side. We also want to do so with the municipalities; we want to further enhance the added value of the proximity, guarantee, effectiveness and efficiency of local governments. Here we have to demand more from the municipalities. That's what we're on. Of course, that doesn't matter to you, ladies and gentlemen of the right. Ladies and gentlemen, the motions for resolutions that we are putting forward arise from our country vision, because we know how people live and what difficulties they have and because we have a commitment to social justice that you, from the right, cannot take, because if you did, you would be progressive, transformative and reformist, and would not be conservative. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain, which we Socialists love, is Spain with a broad, pluralistic and clean view to see the possibilities we have as a country, to generate the necessary alliances to do so and to make everything available to citizens, and to do so now, which is when we need the most certainty and confidence in this country and in whom we govern them. We defend and build with our proposals Spain that does not belong to anyone because, ladies and gentlemen, Spain belongs to us all and to all in equal measure. Mr. Carlos Rojas, you say you make a firm opposition. You only stand firm before a few, if not, we remind you of the Wedding. [[Applauds]] This group has been and will be with the Government and with parliamentary groups proposing, negotiating and consensusing reforms and laws to be able to meet the needs of citizens in an unprecedented crisis, in a social and economic crisis resulting from it, and now in a larger crisis due to the consequences of war and the threat to democracy. It is clear, and we have seen it during this debate, that we cannot count on you, gentlemen of the right, but you know what? Let's keep working. Despite their not all, with courage and determination we will again help this country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, our group presents a set of resolutions which, with the central objective of protecting the middle and working classes from uncertainty, seek a country with greater social justice and greater equality, but which governs and always works on new opportunities for development. A Spain that is clearly in solidarity with the rest of our European partners, hence our proposals on the European Union and the fair recovery plan. The extreme right and the nationalists believe otherwise, but we know that defending Europe defends Spain. We therefore propose strengthening economic and political values and interests in the face of the unacceptable attack on our democracies. We also promote a Spain with more equality and equity, under a sustainable and inclusive growth model. We promote a strong, fair and decent economic and social Spain, a demanding but environmentally friendly economic model. We also have a different way of managing natural disasters from those of the most negationist with climate change. Let's remember how they managed the Prestige crisis, I think we've done something better with the volcano crisis. In the construction of our model, strategic sectors such as agriculture, tourism and industry are particularly relevant. With regard to agriculture, the modernization of the sector and its infrastructure, because we are experiencing long periods of drought, so action is needed in the irrigation sector. Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, gives us food; it gives us food and fights hunger a lot in the world. That is why we also propose the prevention of food waste. In tourism, our preference outside as a destination needs our support in the 2030 Sustainable Tourism Strategy. Competitiveness, diversity and quality in industry. Our priority is to help companies that are experiencing difficulties - we are already doing so - and our effort to make their weight in the gross domestic product 20%. If you have read our proposals, you will also see the pledge by the PERTE as an instrument to invest in an equitable recovery, in the two-way ecological and digital transition, strengthening strategic sectors and moving public resources, but also by the hand of the private. Ladies and gentlemen, we are working and proposing to you resolutions for a Spain that demands that your politicians and your government act with heart - I must say that the Socialists are more of a heart - a Spain that advances in equality without leaving anyone behind. That is why there are public health resolutions in our proposals, a health that has learned a lot from the pandemic and that must strengthen primary and community care. As the conservative right does not believe in public health, they propose tax cuts, even to the richest. Yes, yes, do not scare hands, already in the previous debate of the state of the nation - I have read the Diario de Sesiones - your spokesman, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, in his turn, said: Do you confuse health cuts with policies of efficiency, or is it not fair for medicines to be paid not only according to age? Stop scaring people, because gratuitousness and universality are guaranteed. We'll see about that. And, Mr. Rojas, don't be so grateful to the health care workers now when they've fired them in some autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] You will know what you are doing, but we will continue to work to defend public health, universal, free and of excellence in the face of the economic interest of a few. We work and propose solutions for a Spain that extends the right to be cared for, care for the disease, care for loneliness, care for dependence and disability. To the law of dependence, the law of socialist seal, must accompany within the socio-health space the tranquility that we will be cared for in the most critical moments of our life. We promote and work for a Spain in which the elderly have the security of a decent pension, for which it is essential to act with justice on the workers of today. After the labour reform, which is so good in terms of employability and working conditions, we must continue to set targets for the integration of women into the labour market, extending the rights of domestic workers, protecting the self-employed and helping the social economy. We have conceived, ladies and gentlemen, a genuinely equal Spain in women's rights, in all aspects of their life, in work, in the family, in leisure, and also, of course, in their sexual and reproductive life. Not a step back, not a step back. Now, faced with more threats and more cruelty - it has been seen here in the words of Mr.Iván Espinosa de los Monteros - we stand firm with an integral law for the prevention and the fight against trafficking in human beings and the protection of the victims. [[Applauds]] Mr. Iván Espinosa de los Monteros, don't give us lessons from responsible spending when you're convicted of not paying your workers. Pay your workers. [[Applauds]] We are presenting initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, for a Spain with fiscal responsibility and for a just energy transition; for a digital Spain, a Spain of knowledge, science and innovation. Therefore, our bet on programming, robotics and computational thinking at the school stage. In parallel, given the new risks in the management and use of information, more confidence, more transparency and more guarantee. That's why you're betting on cybersecurity. The potential of our young people, with the support of vocational training and scholarships to give them opportunities, will prove a successful and hopeful morning in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, if we work for this Spain that I have been defending, we are also working to avoid Spain that we do not want. Spain does not need manipulations that weaken our democracy and our institutions. Spain does not need the lie in politics to undermine democracy. Spain does not need the incitement to hatred of the people who represent our institutions and does not need the experience these days, breaking the coexistence among fellow citizens. The Socialist Group will support - as always, have no doubt - all those proposals that come to build and dignify the work of politics, but those that come to destroy, question the institutions, divide the citizens or divide the territories have no place in a Spain of 2022, have no place in a modern democracy. Compañeros and compañeras we can be proud, very proud, of all that this government has done and will continue to do, because it is doing and defending the Spain in which we believe and which we represent, the modern, free and diverse Spain, the Spain with heart, the European Spain, the Spain that our children expect us to leave them. This is ours, this is a party that doesn't get wrinkled, we have a president who doesn't get wrinkled, and this parliamentary group won't get wrinkled either. We've faced very hard situations on other occasions, and, you know what? That we've overcome them and we've always done it by not letting anyone out of hand. Companions and companions, in the hard ones it is when the leadership is demonstrated and it is when the commitment to the just causes is demonstrated. Our president is proving it and we're helping him. We are at the side of families, middle and working classes with determination, consistency, unity and the profound satisfaction of being at the side of the social majority, that majority which he chose and which demands progressive, transformative and reformist policies. Those that help them to live better and not be afraid in the future. That's the PSOE and the PSOE is with the Spanish and the Spanish. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs Crespin.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u86	We move on to the next point. Opinion on the Democratic Memory Bill. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix a position at this time, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am speaking to express my strongest rejection of this unnecessary Democratic Memory Bill, the processing of which summarizes the most treacherous signs of identity of the government of Pedro Sánchez, held from the minute one by those who want to cut the unity of Spain. It is a government that irresponsibly sacrifices essential elements of the coexistence of the Spaniards in order to continue to remain in power and that in a period of deep crisis re-edits the policy of discord. This project does not arise to worship the truth. On the contrary, because, among other things, it tries to make up for the terrorist action that for decades caused damage in Spain, left a throng of 864 murdered and tens and tens of thousands of victims who were subjected to extortion and persecution. This legislative initiative seeks to undermine the process of the Transition that allowed the Spaniards to achieve democracy at the hand of King Juan Carlos I; a process in which historically confronted politicians participated, who generously renounced their serious quarrels in order to build a better Spain in which coexistence was one of its main characteristics. It was a process that was consolidated with the adoption in referendum of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, a sacrosanct text that, with all the ups and downs and all the difficulties, has led us to the period of greater progress in fundamental rights in the history of a nation, Spain, that different supporters of this bill want to liquidate indisguisedly. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill unravels hatred and infects the society of Cainism, revanchism and ideological sectarianism. It is no wonder that some accredited socialist voices have risen forcefully in the face of this scourge of harmful consequences for society. Today, more than ever, an old popular saying takes courage: who sows winds, picks up storms. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u88	Thank you. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It's good to talk about memory because today, twenty-one years ago, the terrorist band ETA murdered my colleague José Javier Múgica, Councilman of Leiza. With this law it is intended that those who applauded that assassination be those who rewrite the story and say whether that was right or wrong; those who under no circumstances condemned that attack, like all others. Of course, leaving the passage of this law in the hands of those is an ignominy and quite disgusting because, through this law, we intend to change the dates of the Transition in Spain. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] It is intended - which has always been a goal, of course, of Batasuna - to change that year 1978 and to say that that Constitution was a false closure of Francoism and that it is still in force today. They have achieved part of the target by moving to 1983. What does that mean? That you are going to approve today that there was no full freedom, although we all gave it through the Constitution, so all those murders that were committed until 1983 - more than 300 - by the terrorist band ETA were in theory in defense of freedom, because there was no full freedom in Spain according to them? Therefore, are we justifying that those murders were carried out in pursuit of freedom, in this case of the Basque people or of that chimera - which of course is a chimera - which is Euskal Herria? Is that what you're going to approve here today? [[Applauds]] Of course, it is an aberration and an indignity. We want to end the transition because that was the time for reconciliation, because that was the time when it was agreed how we were going to organize in Spain, from its territorial administration to the Head of State, including the parliamentary monarchy. You want to question that. Whoever questioned it has always been Herri Batasuna. What draws attention is that the Socialist Party, for remaining one more day in the Moncloa, buys this story from them, and that those who made the forty worst years of the history of Spain most recent are now going to write the story. As a black-legged robe said, those who today call terrorists will see what they are called in the future. It will always depend on who writes the story. Today, the Socialist Party lets Bildu Batasuna write the story. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u90	Thank you. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u91	Thank you, President. To decide what to vote on in this law leads us to a recurring debate: Is it an advance? Yeah. Is that enough and what the victims wanted? No, no, Is any progress good? It depends, because here the key is that a central issue that the law had to solve has not done so. I refer to what was required of them by the United Nations rapporteur Fabián Salvioli, to be able to investigate and prosecute the crimes of Francoism. This was not done by the 2007 Act. It has taken fifteen years to come back to this, but this law does not resolve it either. Will they delay fifteen more years, when a century has passed since the beginning of fascist repression? People who have gone to Argentina to seek justice will still not find it in the Spanish state. Why? Because they have refused to touch on the Amnesty Law, which allows impunity for these crimes and because there is another way, such as the adequacy of the principle of legality to international law, has also been rejected. We brought this here on March 15th. I look at the argument that some will say that if you do not support this law, you are voting with the Francoist right-wings, because on March 15 the PSOE had no objection to joining these right-wings to reject what was a way of investigating and judging the crimes of Francoism. The relatives and comrades of Gustavo Muñoz, killed by a policeman shot in the back on September 11, 1978, will not be able to seek justice in the Spanish courts. With the chronology of the law in hand, our comrades of militancy Blanca Serra, Carles Castellanos and Teresa Leche, who were tortured in December 1981 on the Via Laietana, could also be considered victims. But so far, because neither could they resort to justice with the slightest guarantee of success. The persistence of torture in the Spanish State, one of the shames with which the Court of Strasbourg very often confronts them, has its roots in this impunity of many torturers who went to bed as franchisors and rose up democrat-monarchical without a commission of truth by means. Finally, other key issues have been rejected: compensation to the victims - who suffered forced labour as well - the return of the heritage to the ateneos and cooperatives or the transfer...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u92	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u93	...already voted by this House of the police station of Via Laietana. Sorry, I'm done. We will vote no, because he does not keep these demands open. Nothing should be closed today, nothing should be done about the crimes of Francoism. And if the Spanish institutions do not want to do so, more so that institutions belonging to the Catalan Republic - already without taboos and debts with the regime of 78- can guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u94	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u95	...the truth, justice and the guarantee of non-repetition for all anti-fascist fighters. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u96	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Eguerdi on guztioi. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking one more step to return thousands of people, thousands of victims of Francoism and their families, a part of the justice, truth and reparation they deserve and have been waiting for years, decades. Today we take one more step in the recognition of all of them and of what they suffered. It has been a long way, full of difficulties and obstacles to get here. Euskal Herria Bildu has been there, supporting all initiatives to make this law a reality. That is why we must also acknowledge that we would like to have gone further, because there are still issues that need to be resolved. Since its inception, most of the memorial movement recognized that the initial text, compared to the current law passed in 2007 by Zapatero, collected advances that were well received. Among others, I would like to mention the express recognition given to the suffering suffered by the people who were affected by the polio virus during the pandemic that devastated Spain from the 1950s onwards. The truth of what has happened with regard to the expansion of the epidemic during the Franco dictatorship, as well as measures to improve its quality of life, will be promoted. But there were also shadows that, through the amendments, we wanted to correct so that this law would meet the objective of truth, justice and reparation for all the victims of the war of 36 and Francoism in its most extensive vision, as well as guarantees of non-repetition. Our amendments have improved the text, we have no doubt. However, we recognize that we have not been able to remove obstacles to the guarantee of justice and the end of impunity, such as the Amnesty Act. I hope that the legal-now express mention - by which war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide and torture are considered imprescriptible and non-amnest - will have the effect to be invoked in the courts for the commencement of trials against the perpetrators. I wish. If not, we believe that all the political forces that we aspire to that reparation and real justice that the victims deserve must continue to work to correct and improve this law, and be able to make further progress in the goal of a true restorative justice that judges those responsible for the Franco dictatorship, as has happened in other latitudes of the world. In turn, we believe that this law continues to suffer from a critical view of what the transition period and subsequent years entailed. We want to move the idea that with the adoption of the 1978 Constitution in the Spanish State a period of peace, democracy and consolidation of a democratic rule of law began, when many of us know that that transition was neither model nor brought democracy for all. [[Rumors]] Many of us know that the transition did not end the Francoist heritage or end the violation of rights. Recognizing this, we highlight the improvements that Euskal Herria Bildu has achieved, improvements that represent progress in the search for the truth of what has happened, in addition to opening new channels of recognition and reparation with the creation of the technical commission for clarification, commissions that in Euskal Herria have been developing for a long time with an intense and rigorous work experience, which will undoubtedly serve as an example to those now created. We also see as a very important step forward the declaration as illegal and illegitimate of the courts, juries and criminal and administrative bodies created from the coup d'état of 36, as well as their resolutions. The period of application should also be extended to 1983. And we do not want to fail to highlight two issues that have enormous symbolic value for the history of Basques and Basques. The declaration of the fortress of Ezkaba as a place of memory and the transfer of the Palace of the Summit of Donostia to the city hall for its dedication to the historical and democratic memory. That the fortress of Ezkaba is dedicated to activities for the recovery, safeguard and dissemination of memory is a demand that different entities related to the historical and democratic memory of Navarra have been demanding for many years and that will now come true. It is a step further to compensate the thousands of anti-fascist prisoners who lived a calvary between their walls and the hundreds of them who were shot during the escape of the fort and later. His memory is now more present than ever. The Aiete Summit is a place of great symbolic burden for our history, a place where young Basques José Lasa and José Zabala were tortured, a place that was used first as the residence of the dictator Franco and, later - and not only during the Franco period - as a clandestine centre of detention and torture. We hope that the recovery of this place will also bring memory and recognition to all of them. For this reason, today we will vote in favour of this law, recalling that with the adoption of this law the struggle for truth, justice and reparation for all victims does not end. Much remains to be done and we will continue to work for it. Finally, we only want to send a message to the political and media right-wings who have attacked us and this law unrelentingly over the past few weeks, under the excuse of having received our support, but we know that what bothers them is not the support of Euskal Herria Bildu or such an amendment...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u98	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u99	..., what really bothers them is to recognize the victims of Francoism. I'm finishing up. What bothers them is to see that they, the winners, will not be able to erase neither the memory nor the dignity of the victims that the war and the dictatorship provoked. What bothers them is that truth and justice will reach many of the victims of a dictatorship they long for, a dictatorship they never rejected and still claim. What bothers you...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u100	Your Honor, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u101	...is that, - yes, it ended - as much as it weighs them, we will get it. For all of them, for all the victims forgotten, more recognition, more truth, more justice, more memory. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u102	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor Mr. Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u103	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been and continues to be debate on how to deal with the tragic collective events of the past, such as the horrors of wars, especially the civil ones, and their consequences, either from oblivion, memory or history. Ladies and gentlemen, the oblivion, which was the recommendation of classical Rome and which comes almost to our day in Ernest Renan's well-known theory on the foundation of the nation when he said that it is based both on things in common and on which everyone has forgotten many things, is no longer welcome. [[The lady]] In this sense, the German theologian Hans Küng, while pointing out that in the face of a gloomy past every people, without exception, prefers the art of forgetting that of remembering, added that this forgetfulness of the past did not cease to be a manifestation of the power of that gloomy past over the present facilitating conditions for reincarnation. The European Parliament, in this same vein and following the tragedies of the twentieth century in Europe, precisely as a result of them, states that there can be no reconciliation without truth and without memory, and stresses the importance of historical memory for the future of the Union, the construction of the memory that is carried out through precisely the victims, who become transmitters of the pains and sufferings that they endured in order to be taken into account and not only as a restorative interpellation, but also as a collective duty of memory that arises from the unbearable experience of Auschwitz and to avoid repetitions. It must be remembered that it must not only have a restorative and preventive purpose, but also an ethical purpose, as Hans Küng urged us, so that through the pain of those who suffered, we can integrate a lasting trace in the form of an ethics to achieve a deeper moral consciousness, to differentiate between humanity and inhumanity, to avoid errors that can undoubtedly be repeated again if we do not erect strong moral, legal and political dikes. For this and for this, ladies and gentlemen, collective memory is important and occupies a place that is unique and distinct from the scientific power of history, which, based on past, controlled, intertwined, shared and contrasted facts, reconstructs what it could have been, integrating itself into an explanatory set; ultimately, what happened and why it happened, but without appreciation of good and evil. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, the collective memory of the victims and the memorialist phenomena are important, because they are a social reconstruction of the past which, although they have a common substrate with history, are independent of the purely scientific power of this one. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this collective memory bill that we are discussing is a necessary text. And we do not consider it revanchist because it does not leave the judgment of the past to oblivion or history, or because it has a broader and more concrete character than the more declaratory nature of Law 52/2007 to promote precisely a better personal reparation and recovery of the victims and personal and family of their relatives. This broader and more concrete character is necessary to be better aligned with the memory policies developed in different countries, uniquely in Germany, and also to be better aligned with constitutional values such as the defence of democracy, the promotion of justice and reparation, the protection of human rights and respect for human dignity and the rights inherent in them. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder: is it revanchism and intransigence to fill with content, twenty years after that declaration in November 2002 in this House signed by all the parliamentary groups, in which the public authorities were urged to recover the victims of the Civil War and the dictatorship and to recognize the rights of their relatives and heirs to recover the remains, name and dignity? I also wonder if it is revanchism to remove convictions and sanctions that were for ideological and political reasons. And I also wonder whether it is revanchism to investigate violations of fundamental rights until 1983 when, as the editorial article of El País recalled last day 4, it is a reality recognized by the European Court of Human Rights itself in the context of the fight against terrorism, which in no way can imply any compensatory judgment with the crimes of ETA nor harm the unjust damage caused to its victims, many still pending reparation by its victims, who were in many ways and who did nothing in favour of the consolidation of democracy, but rather the opposite. I also wonder whether it is revanchism to demand the return of the plundered persons their property and the Basque institutions their official documentation, deposited in a file that is not of the Civil War, as it is said, but of the spoiled losers of the Civil War, because the affections of the Franco regime were never spoiled and, in their case, the seized was soon returned to them. We therefore call for the return of the original documentation, without prejudice to the integrity of the file, through digitized copies of an authentic nature, as endorsed by the Constitutional Court in an identical case. He ended, president, recalling the fundamentals of historical memory, but also the risk of its instrumentalization to being as plural as society is and as a means to create identity for the interest of ideology or of State, beyond its restorative purpose to avoid repetition of mistakes of the past and to achieve a deeper ethical consciousness. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u105	Thank you, President. Let's see what the subject looks like with a series of questions. Does the Spanish legal order after this law protect the memory of the lives of those people who died at the hands of totalitarianism? It depends: if the Francoists killed you, yes; if ETA killed you, no. Second question. Does the Spanish legal system promote places of memory that recall the cost of freedom and how hard it is to achieve democracy? It also depends: if it's Gernika, yes, but if it's Hipercor, no. Third question. Does the legal order prohibit tributes to totalitarian murderers? Well, it depends, too. It depends on whether the killer is on the Franco side in the Civil War, and in that case is prohibited, or whether the killer is an ETA terrorist, and that case is not prohibited. These are the facts and have not yet responded to why these decisions. I, apart from proof to the contrary that the Socialist Party is here, can say that you choose victims and murderers not because of what happened in the past, but because of your usefulness in the present: the memory of dead Spaniards serving living politicians. The list of deaths at the hands of totalitarianism of different nature in Spain is unfortunately long, but the paradigm of atrocity is when a child is killed. Killing a child in the name of fascism or nationalism is the culmination of cruelty and absurdity. Let us therefore take the history of two children and the treatment given by this law and the Spanish legal order to each one. First story: Paco, murdered in the Guernica bombing, 7 years old. Tribute to your killer will be forbidden. The place of his death will be a place of democratic memory. Second story: Fabio, murdered in Erandio, 2 years old. His killers have been honored and will continue to be honoured; members of the band that killed him today draft the Democratic Memory Act. [[Applauds]] Do you realize the difference? They have to explain to us why this difference. Today, thanks to the Government and this law, the day-to-day of the twenty-seven members or collaborators of ETA who pounce inside Bildu goes through the following way: in the morning they go to the tribute of the murderer of a child, in the afternoon they write the Law of Democratic Memory of Spain and in the evening they sleep hugged to the pasamontañas longing for their young years. Look, if the spirit of this law is to protect the victims and martyrs of freedom, they have to explain to us why they voted against the law that brought here Citizens who prohibited tributes to terrorists. Why? [[Applauds]] The day before this law was passed, the spokesmen of the Etraras said they wanted no more tributes. The PSOE told us that, after these statements, there was no need for this law prohibiting tributes. They chose to listen and believe the killers. The PSOE told us that it was not necessary and in less than a month the tributes were resumed. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] They also have to explain to me, in these tributes, where is the empathy or regret that everyone says they have made these people, that they have not spoken of repenting nor asked for forgiveness or said absolutely nothing. All these, who are exegetes of Bildu, as if it were an intellectual movement and not a band of what they are, have not asked for forgiveness, but they do continue to record ages every day for their executive. They have not asked for forgiveness, but they continue to pay tributes to terrorists every day. Don't make us commulgate with mill wheels; you have chosen them, take the whole package, don't make us interpreters of what these gentlemen are. [[Applauds]] Returning to the law, what matters to them is how profitable each of the victims is. In this I will be quite clear: the Thirteen Roses, La Desbandá, the Shots, the Exiles, all that pain is bent today to the use of the Government, unless they explain to me why this difference of treatment. I can say here today that they use the past for their present, that they paint banners with other people's blood, also that of the victims of Francoism, because when one is utilitarian, he is always and for everything, to forget and to remember. As those killed by ETA are disruptive, they forget; that is trivialized and even allowed to pay tribute to their killers. Yesterday's pain, the viscera on the asphalt, the bodies buried in the rubble, the parents who will never live again something similar to a life because they have killed a child will be remembered in function not of the victim, but of the killer. What a perverseness! To know whether a murdered child deserves to be remembered, the Government asks the worst question that can be asked in this matter, which is who and why killed the child. They don't look at the killer, they ask the killer's motives. If a fascist killed him, okay, to protect his memory by law. If a terrorist killed him, to cover his memory, that right now is not for us. Finally, to close the circle of moral misery, they agree with Otegi's party that is considered, in the words of the Batasunos-and just said by Bildu's spokesman -, Francoism in its most extensive version and include the government of Felipe González, and you sign it: the worst PSOE stabbed the best PSOE. [[pointing to the seats of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group]] Look, this is Otegi's tweet after the signing of the agreement you have reached with you.This tweet, before which you today lower your head and silence, condenses all the essences of what you have achieved. [[shows a sheet with a tweet showing a photo of Mr. Gonzalez Márquez and reads: 'A Felipe Gonzalez does not sound good to him the Law of Democratic Memory for X reasons']] In it Otegi insults Felipe González very seriously after signing an agreement with you, and you keep quiet, you have said nothing. Well, I'm not socialist, but I'm a Democrat and I'm Spanish, and I'm not gonna shut up to Otegi's insult and I'm not gonna consent to this piece saying this from a former president of Spain. [[Break the tweet sheet.-Applause]] Every time Otegi insults a president, it makes the president bigger, Otegi more infamous, and Sánchez smaller, the incredible man who's drowsy. How can you two shut up about this? Don't they have a minimum of dignity? Are they empty of principle? Only a fully lobotomized party could think of giving the pen of memory to the comrades of those who watered Spain with more than three hundred dead in those years in which the Socialist Party says and in which Bildu says...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u106	Mr. Díaz, you have to finish, please. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u107	I'm done, Madam President. Look, you think today will be forgotten, but no. Today begins the true memory, the memory of what the PSOE did on July 14, 2022. They are not yet aware of the magnitude of what they have done, believe me; they have betrayed themselves and others, they have betrayed the whole past, they have betrayed all the legacy they received from their party, but put this on fire, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party: Spain does not pay traitors. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Mr López Álvarez: What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u108	For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time, I have the floor in the first place to defend the amendments, Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u109	Thank you, Madam President. We recognize the progress that is being made in some important aspects of this law, but unfortunately there is a basic issue that needs to be addressed so that the impunity of Francoism, which was one of the objectives, at least ours: to do justice to the victims, the repeal of articles 2 (e) and (f) of the Amnesty Act. The PSOE and Podemos claim that this is resolved by accepting that this law should be interpreted in accordance with international law and signed agreements and covenants, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. However, this is already reflected in article 10.2 of the Spanish Constitution and did not give rise to a single case of investigating the crimes of Francoism in the last forty-four years. We have, therefore, already found that this approach does not serve to bring justice to the victims, which does not really guarantee access to effective judicial protection, compliance with the principle of international legality, which makes it possible to investigate the crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity committed during the Franco dictatorship. We therefore regret this missed opportunity to really do justice to the victims of Francoism and ask for our amendment 266 to be voted on because, if there is no change in this, unfortunately we will not be able to vote in favour of the law and we will abstain. And we also ask you to vote in favour of Amendment No 276, because surprisingly an amendment by the BNG was not accepted to symbolically recognize the Peace of Meirás as a place of memory. The symbolic power of Meirás is undeniable not only for his theft by Franco, the terror that was exerted at the tip of a phalangist gun to force the voluntary contributions for the passage of the caudillo, his function for forty years as the official residence of the dictator, but also and above all to recognize the struggle of forty-five years, victorious struggle of the Galician people for their recovery
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u110	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u111	I'm on my way. I would like to recall that still today there are about twenty BNG militants denounced by the Franco family for this struggle, and it cannot be that forces that call themselves left-wings show so little sensitivity to the democratic firmness of the Galician people in this case. We therefore call for a vote in favour of Amendment 276. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u112	For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin, and as I see you coming, I have listened to you and you have had a whole week of statements for confusion and manipulation, let's make one thing clear from the beginning: this is not a law or a discussion about the victims of ETA. Have the decency, ladies and gentlemen of the right, not to be instrumental in your electoral interests. [[Applauds]] This is a law on the memory of the victims of the coup d'état and of the forty years of dictatorship. You have the political and civic honesty to say what you think about this law without hiding and instrumentalizing other victims. This law is not a law on the past, it is not a law on pains of the past, it is a law on pains that happen today, every day; this is a law on the pain of those who have nowhere to go to remember their relatives because they are buried in a cove, and they will have it when the State guarantees exhumations, and that pain happens today, it is not the past. This is a law on the pain of those who do not know what was of their ancestors, and that pain happens today and thanks to this law they will be able to access the archives and the sentences of the illegal courts of repression will be annulled. This is a law about the people who today continue to have scars in the soul and body for having been tortured, today, and who will finally receive reparation, recognition and gratitude. We are not talking about the past, we are talking about a present pain, and the recognition of this pain does not take away from you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, not a single right, not a single millimeter. This law is not perfect, it lacks access to justice by ending the final point, but with it we thank those in Spain who fought for freedom, and we do not do it in secret, we do not do it at home, we do not do it with family stories and we do not do it in half voice, we do it here, in the seat of popular sovereignty, and we tell them that this country was in debt to them for a long time and that it begins to repair them. Today, we are going - I conclude, Madam President - to pass a law, and here there is a fundamental moral difference: the children and grandchildren of the winners will leave here with their rights intact; the children and grandchildren of those who never gave up we will return home with the pride of telling them that this country begins to recognize their debt to them. For they were, we are; for we are, they will be. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u114	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. Finally, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Miguel Etchecolatz, murderer and torturer, responsible for La Noche de los Cápices, died ten days ago in a prison common to 93 years, while serving nine life sentences for torture, kidnapping and murder, crimes against humanity committed when he was head of Argentine illegal detention centres. Also, last week, after three years of hearings, after listening to seven hundred witnesses, Santiago Omar Riveros, commander of Military Institutes, and nine more members of the larger plane of the underground detention centre in Campo de Mayo, on the outskirts of Buenos Aires, were sentenced to life imprisonment for crimes against humanity. Last week, three years of trial, seven hundred witnesses, ten life sentences. This, and not a certificate issued by a civil judge, is justice, is memory. Antonio González Pacheco, Billy el Niño, died quietly at home after twenty complaints were filed and the National Court refused his extradition. The young independenceist and communist activist Gustau Muñoz, a Catalan born in Seville, was shot in the back on 11 September 1978. He had just participated in a demonstration with the slogan Out the occupation forces. The killer was a police officer of these occupying forces, who are still stationed at the police station of Via Laietana, that center of torture and repression that the Secretary of State for Security, Mr. Rafael Pérez Ruiz, Marlaska's numbers, described not long ago as a democratic symbol of public service. The Democratic Memory Act speaks of justice, but it will not judge anyone. With this law, Gustau Muñoz's family members will not be able to see his killer before the court, and the political leader for that murder and many more, a thirty here in Madrid, the civil governor of Barcelona and Minister of the Interior, Rodolfo Martín Villa, will also continue to go unpunished. The Catalan Parliament last week urged the Spanish Government to stop being an accomplice and investigate Martin Villa for crimes against humanity. I hope that those who called for their trial in Catalonia will be consistent and will not allow with their vote or abstention the adoption of a final point law that consolidates a model of impunity and leaves the victims without effective protection. Look, although there is still a solemn declaration and lack of legal concreteness, Junts per Catalunya says yes to reparation, yes to tributes, yes to recognitions, yes to exhumations, yes to the complete restitution of the spoiled goods, but the independence republicanism that we represent cannot endorse with its vote or with its abstention a law that will thicken the false account of the legitimacy of the 1978 regime, a bastard regime, continuing the Franco Fascist regime: the same head of state, no reparation either in the judiciary or in the security forces, the same extractive elites, the same aggressiveness against the language and the Catalan nation, an aggressiveness that our institutions, our leaders, ourselves, have lived in our own flesh with police and judicial persecution, imprisonment, exile, espionage, cloacas; a state that smells of Francoism. We're not going to endorse this report.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u116	For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u117	[[Start your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] This was how his brother Quim was fired from the anarchist activist sentenced to death and executed in prison La Modelo de Barcelona on March 2, 1974. Forty-four years after the adoption of the Constitution, no one has yet apologized for that murder in the vile garrote or for anyone else. In an interview with Francisco Franco who published the News Chronicle on July 29, 1936, he prayed the following literal. The journalist asked him: Will he have to kill half of Spain? To what Franco replied: I will triumph, whatever it takes. And he did, he put all the effort of a State, of three armies, the shameful collaboration of a lot of entrepreneurs that came close to the sun that warmed the most and financed it, and, of course, the hierarchy of the Church, which saw in Francoism the opportunity to continue with social control. Although many endeavor to try to forget, the leader of Spain by God's grace ordered the persecution, torture and killing of thousands of dissidents. The Spanish State deported thousands of people to Nazi concentration camps; it led them to a captivity similar to torture and death in life, and it did so in collaboration with Hitler. This is how a fascist national-Catholic regime was established for forty years, the forty years of peace of cemeteries, silence and sabre noise. The dictator Franco appointed Juan Carlos as successor - the father of the present Bourbon - and they passed in an exemplary way from the law to the law, as rightly and without blush claimed a few days ago Citizens by the mouth of Edmundo Bal. In other words, they legalized fascism instead of defeating it, cleaned his face and tried to hide under the carpet the shame that it was supposed to be, after forty years of the dictator's death and according to the UN Special Rapporteur, the second country in the world, after Cambodia, to have people buried in covets and unidentified. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you who were on the other side of the trench, forty-seven years after the dictator died in bed, resist calling that period and that regime by its name... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u118	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u119	... something that was perfectly defined by the UN General Assembly in its plenary session of December 12, 1946, when it affirmed that Francoism was a fascist regime that was integrated into the axis of Hitler's Nazi Germany and Mussolini's Fascist Italy. Of those dusts, these muds. Many lessons of democracy are given in the Spanish State, while the relatives and relatives of those killed by the fascist dictatorship still have to go to seek protection in international jurisdiction. This law, which has been introduced by the more progressive self-styled Government, continues to be far removed from what should be a just reparation to the victims and the recognition of what was an ignominy. Perhaps so because many of the heirs of that fascism are still on boards of directors of corporations that run a lot and contribute to their much appreciated IBEX. It should be said that the demands of our group, based on the ongoing struggle of the entire memorial movement and led by comrade Joan Tardà, have made it possible for this law to be better, much better than that which emerged from the Council of Ministers, no doubt. [[applause]] By the way, I remind you that in 2007 you already approved a text that was definitive and laughed at Tardà for saying that it did not close the wound. Fifteen years later they open up the folder and tell us again that now they do, but well, our answer is not that they don't, that with what is approved today the wound continues to bleed. It will remain open because it does not change the Amnesty Law, because no matter how much they say it will not be interpreted according to international treaties; by the way, Spain has been adhering to these international treaties for decades and has not served to open the lock, nothing makes us think that it will now be different. It will be a law of impunity for the executioners, which allows them to camp wide through squares and streets. It is a cynicism to make us believe the descendants of thousands of missing victims and ourselves that maintaining the Amnesty Law as now will be done justice. It will remain open because they do not recognize the patrimonial responsibility of the State or of the Church or of the companies that profit from the crimes of the fascist regime; it will remain open because we do not know how this extension will be legally realized to the victims of the Transition, such as Gustavo Muñoz, assassinat per la Policia Nacional l'11 de septembre de 1978; and it will remain open because it continues to leave to the free will of the government to turn back seized and plundered property to the victims. [[applause]] In short, the wound will continue to bleed until justice is done and the victims are repaired. It has taken almost half a century for the State to annul the sentences and to consider the fascist regime illegal, to officially recognize that the Basque, Galician, Catalan and Valencian cultures were persecuted and repressed, to recognize the deportations of stateless persons, women victims of that war, whose children were also stolen from them. The State remains impassive in the face of these crimes forty-seven eternal years, very late, very half and ambiguously, but there it is, the nullity and declaration of illegality is recognized. Do not doubt that today we put our political capital and a backpack of reasons to watch them closely; we do not start from naivety, as we already accumulate too many disappointments. Do not take the abstention of my group as a vote of confidence; on the contrary, take it as a vote for warning and protest. The gesture that Esquerra Republicana and the memorial movement are making here today is immensely generous, and at the same time not unlimited. On the day of true justice this law will have the quality seal of Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u120	Mrs. Telechea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u121	I'm on my way, President. I ended up as I started, remembering a quote from Puig Antich already near his murder that says: 'You will kill me at dawn in secret, but fearful, because you know that my name will not gag him silence, because you know that my dream will not drown him. This freedom, from lip to lip, step by step, little by little, escapes us.' Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and Members of the Republican Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u122	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mateu Istúriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect. I would like to begin by recalling the emotional speech delivered by the President of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy in Oslo on the occasion of the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the European Union for its contribution to reconciliation and human rights in Europe in 2012. He began his speech by quoting Herodotus, when twenty - five centuries ago he said that in times of peace the children bury the parents, while in times of war it is the parents who bury the children. Unfortunately, I had to bury my father and mother, my brother, the two vilely murdered by the terrorist band ETA. [[Applauds]] For this reason, I am struck by the chill of indignation when I found that, despite the public commitments made by the President of the Government, today the blue bank is sitting and is being screwed at any price, even if it is the price of indignity, thanks to the support received by the liaisons of the murderers of the ages, and not satisfied with this betrayal of his words, his own party and also grossly disregarding the memory of the victims, agreeing with them this ignominious law which, from now on, we will call Bildu law or law of totalitarian memory. Mr President, either you are with the victims or you are against them, it does not serve the cake that you are making of attending the apparently complicated act of Ermua, while on a day-to-day basis, accompanied by your Minister of the Interior, Mr Grande-Marlaska, is always trying to crush the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] With the introduction of this law, ladies and gentlemen, they try to impose their truth, thereby attacking pluralism which is consubstantial to democracy, breaking the understanding among all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to denounce the lack of parliamentary respect for the People's Parliamentary Group as a result of the fact that no group went to them to analyse and talk about the amendments, and above all that unusual speed which was applied in the process of the law, which was barely ventilated in a few hours nothing more in one of the papers. I also recognize that you did not miss us, ladies and gentlemen, because we have the most radical government in Europe, with communists inside and outside, tightening the rope, independenceists, nationalists and the political arm of a terrorist organization such as Bildu. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me at this time to thank my colleagues, Mrs Montesinos, Mrs Moro, and our parliamentary advisers, Mrs García Romero-Nieva and Mr Fernández Berzano, as well as the leadership of the People's Parliamentary Group. Thanks to them, we have prepared a text in which we reinforce the idea of harmony and reconciliation that was achieved during the transition and which culminated in the 1978 Constitution, which has allowed the Spaniards to enjoy the best rates of stability and harmony, ending, ladies and gentlemen, the two Spains, the red and the blue, which you now take care of resurrecting again. This bill is sectarian, exclusive and a frontal attack, as I said, on the Transition, and in the Transition the Spaniards did a very important task: they committed themselves more to their future and that of democracy than to their past, and now they intend to impose an official and uniform collective hemipléjic memory. It was a process, as I want you all to understand, that was never based on oblivion, ladies and gentlemen, but simply on a more generous act, as was concord and mutual forgiveness, and now all of you are trying to blow it up. The memory does not admit qualifications by decree; neither this Government nor any other government has the responsibility to reopen painful memories that the protagonists decided to overcome for the sake of the common good. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is why our amendments are an antidote to this sectarian and frontal attack on the spirit of the Transition. That is why, with the law, we only want - to make it clear to them what we want in the People's Parliamentary Group - to create a legal framework to carry out the tasks of locating, exhuming and handing over to the families of the victims, so that they may rest in peace and also have the peace and calm they deserve. That is why we have relied on many amendments in the State's general budgets to strengthen the quantities, giving way to sectarian and baseless alternative items. But, ladies and gentlemen, our requests have never been accepted. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill you are going to pass today is indecent and disruptive with coexistence with unpredictable consequences, for which history will judge you. They have also had many criticisms of former leaders of the PSOE and other parliamentarians and politicians who have said that they consider the great constitutional pact to be distorted. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible for you to extend the franchise until 31 December 1983? Have you thought about what it means? Look, here's the ignominious transactional amendment. Do you see this underlined in yellow? [[shows a document]] It is Bildu, it is the work and art of Bildu, with which this law, only for this reason, would have to be disqualified. [[Applauds]] How do they accept intractable economic reparations for the descendants of victims from one side alone, and for parties and trade unions? Have you given any thought to what it means that the Amnesty Law is interpreted, like all laws, in accordance with international, conventional and customary law? Do you not know the tenit of article 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution, the reform of the Criminal Code of 2003 and 3.1 of the Civil Code? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just finishing up the way I started. What a shame! How do you have the little shame of having agreed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, this law with the political heirs of the murderers of the ages? I'm gonna ask you a question. You make a statement of intent. Say with me or nod: I feel and condemn ETA terrorism and all the murders ETA has committed. It's very easy to say. Say it with me. Repeat: He condemned the murders of ETA. They'll be a lot quieter. [[Applauds]] Speaking of places of democratic memory, you have spoken of the summit. Would you put in those itineraries and places of democratic memory the horrible zulo in which was 532 days my bourgeois countryman, José Antonio Ortega Lara? Think about it too, that it would be constructive for future generations to know what you did for fifty years. [[Applauds]] Doesn't these ETA murders amount to human rights violations? Why isn't your investigation contemplated? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what is a gross error is what you have just done with this bill. They cannot be allowed to legislate terrorism's warheads, in addition to the worsening writing of the history of their victims. That's totally indecent. Presenting this law in this month of July, ladies and gentlemen, is an act of looting and provocation that we will not consent to. In July we have not only remembered that twenty-five years ago Miguel Ángel Blanco was killed, but also many other victims, because in fifty years there have been many months of July. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. This law, as it provokes us deep disgust, as soon as Don Alberto Núñez Feijóo arrives in Moncloa and is president of the government, of course we will repeal it and, moreover, with great fuss. Let me finish. Message, Minister, addressed to Mr Sánchez. Mr. Sánchez, you have the dubious honor of leading the most sinister rankings that statistics offer us. Today, he goes on to lead another: that of the dismantling of national reconciliation that had been achieved with so much effort and generosity during the Transition. And now all of you will applaud with great joy, but probably some of the socialists are going to be burned with their hands thinking of the betrayal they make of their former leaders. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u124	Thank you, Mr. Mateu. In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down. Forty-seven years after the end of the dictatorship, Spain will respond to the claims of the United Nations and guarantee the rights to truth, justice and reparation of the victims. It has not been possible to include all the proposals defended by Unidad Podemos and the memorial movement, but today, thanks to the coalition government, we guarantee more rights. We are committed to continuing to work so that the victims will never be abandoned again. By 2020, the United Nations had agreed on four resolutions inviting Spain to guarantee the rights of the victims of Francoism. We were expressly asked for a law to comply with the requirements of the international community. Today we adopt that law that corrects the limitations of the 2007 law and includes the condemnation of the coup d'état of July 36, the Franco dictatorship and the declaration of its illegality; the declaration of illegality and nullity of convictions or sanctions for political or conscientious reasons; the right of the victims and their families to the truth and to the proper exhumation of the more than 100,000 disappeared still buried in covets; and we have included the right to compensation for the stolen property seized by the dictatorship and the economic reparation of the victims, especially the Spanish and the Spanish who were subjected to slave labour. [[Applauds]] It also guarantees access to public and private archives and the removal of symbols and recognitions that exalt the dictatorship or the oppressors. Educational programmes, a centre and a network of places of memory are created, which of course must be democratic, which will transform the only monument to a dictatorship that exists in Europe, the Valley of the Fallen, into a place of remembrance of the crimes of Francoism. [[Applauds]] And nationality will be granted to the children of Spanish women who lost theirs, to the children of those who today are Spanish by the memory law of 2007, initiative promoted by Senator Sara Vilà, whom we thank. [[Applauds]] The right to nationality of descendants of the International Brigades is recognized and those who suffered persecution for their sexual orientation, for being gypsies, for using their mother tongues, or those who in the Transition were victims of residual structures of the dictatorship, such as the case of Almeria or the massacres of Vitoria o'Pamplona, are recognized. [[applause]] This law is a challenge for Spanish justice, which must guarantee the right to truth and justice. The Amnesty Act conquered by the anti-Francoist resistance cannot continue to be used as an excuse to deny the rights of victims, because international law provides that amnesty or statute of limitations do not apply to crimes against humanity, as it would be defenceless for victims. Therefore, nullifying or amending the Amnesty Act is neither necessary nor would have any effect. It could not be applied retroactively. On 4 July, eighty-three years after the assassination of the first elected communist deputy in Spain, Cayetano Bolivar, a Malagasy doctor executed by Francoism for the serious crime of having been a deputy of the Republic in this Chamber. Today he is in the 87-year-old Victor Díaz-Cardiel rostrum, nine years in prison for fighting against the dictatorship in the ranks of the Communist Party of Spain. [[Applauds]] Also Yenia Camacho, who spent her childhood with her mother, Josephine, visiting her father, Marcelino, in Francoist prisons. [[Applauds]] And we remember Anita Sirgo, 92 years old, tortured innumerable times since the 'Huelgona' of 62. [[Applauds]] And Antoni Ruiz, imprisoned because Francoism considered it a crime to be gay. These are the people who brought democracy to us, the ones who got the Amnesty Act that emptied anti-Franchist prisons, such as the unionists of Process 1001 against Workers' Commissions. [[Applauds]] The generosity of these victims, the generosity, is what has allowed coexistence, even though they never had their rights duly recognized. We offer this law to all victims and their families, which is also a remedy. I wish it hadn't taken Spain so long to recognize them. But Feijóo, the People's Party and VOX have already announced that if they reach the government they will repeal the Democratic Memory Act, they will again deny the rights of the victims. Mr. Bal denies that it was the resistance of the victims that brought us democracy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u126	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u127	... says it was achieved by respecting the laws of the dictatorship: pure negationism towards the victims. [[Applauds]] Only those who identify with Francoism, only they, believe that guaranteeing the rights of the victims is a revenge of the losers or an alteration of coexistence. After forty-five years of democracy, it is urgent to close this wound; recognizing its rights, we close the process of mourning the victims forever. For forty years, the dictatorship arbitrarily punished and eliminated those who desired it, while at the same time repairing those who suffered some damage by joining the rebellion against the Republic. This law recognizes the unrecognized rights of those who opposed the coup and the dictatorship. Access to rights with some victims does not mean that others lose them, democracy multiplies rights, never subtracts them. [[Applauds]] The lack of empathy from the right towards the victims is painful. Spanish democracy has been very generous with the heirs of Francoism, and it is now up to the right to have some generosity with the millions of victims that caused a dictatorship that still justifies. [[Applauds]] Facing one victim with another is an indignity; and it has just been recalled by the 11M Association Affected by Terrorism, which has told them to stop using victims in favour. There are no first or second victims. In this country, the victims of ETA or GRAPO have always been recognised and protected, but the victims of Francoism have been forgotten for decades, and it is a shame that they hide behind the victims of terrorism to justify the crimes of a dictatorship, or those of the LAG or those of the Spanish Basque Battalion or those of the far right, or the crimes of Arturo Ruiz or Yolanda González. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] All victims, all of them, are ours and their rights must be recognized, in order to achieve full reconciliation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u128	Mr. Santiago, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u129	Say it to me, say it: I condemn the victimization and violation of human rights caused by the Franco dictatorship. [[Addressing the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] Say it! [[Applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Commu Puerne-Galicia in common, stood up.-Applause from some members of the Government present in the Chamber, stood up.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Commu Puerne-Galicia in common addressed to the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u130	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u131	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The representative of Esquerra referred earlier to the poem of Salvador Puig Antich, about which silence did not gag his name. Silence has gagged the memory of Mrs. de Esquerra, who forgot that he was executed not because he was an anarchist, but because he had killed a policeman. [[Applauds.-Protests]] The policeman was Francisco Anguas and was twenty-four years old. I imagine you recognize him, because he spoke many times from this rostrum. [[shows a photograph]] It is, of course, José Calvo Sotelo. He was killed by socialist policemen who that same night tried to kill also José MaríaGil-Robles, but they did not find him at his home. In other words, in this regime that its law presents as a luminous democracy destroyed by fascism, law enforcement officials killed opposition leaders. By the way, Calvo Sotelo does not count as a victim for the purposes of this law, because his period of application starts on July 18 and he was killed on July 13. With this skillful cornering of the times, they manage to ignore the 3,000 victims of political violence of the period 1931-1936, a violence starred, mostly, by the left, and in which stand out the 1400 dead of the evil so-called Revolution of Asturias, in fact, failed attempt of socialist coup d'état against the previous electoral victory of the right. [[Applauds]] That revolution was led by Francisco Largo Caballero and Indalecio Prieto, among others, which has not prevented both of them from having statues in the New Ministries. Another socialist, the great Julián Besteiro, then said to them: You will come to power, if you arrive, soaked and red in blood. This is a law that VOX will repeal if it comes to the government. By the way, it is a pity that the People's Party, with an absolute majority, does not derogate from the previous law; it is a pity that the People's Party does not repeal the Andalusian law of equivalent content today. [[Applauds]] We will repeal it because it is a law worthy of Orwell; and Orwell wrote in his book 1984: The party could extend its hand to the past and say that such or such event had never occurred. This was much more horrible than torture and death - so far the date -. And, in fact, erasing the victims of conservative Spain's media from public memory is like killing them for the second time. No one in this whole session has yet talked about the victims killed by the Popular Front in the 1930s. [[Applauds.-Protests]] So, I'm going to remind you of some deaths that, according to your law, never happened. [[Show a picture]] He's less known, he's Florentino Asensio. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u132	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u133	He was Bishop of Barbastro in 1936, and on July 22 those who, in your opinion, defended democracy, cut off his testicles and left him bleeding for a whole night. He died forgiving his murderers, we bring him here as a representative of the 6800 priests and nuns and tens of thousands of segros killed by whom, in your opinion, they defended democracy and human rights. [[Applauds]] This is Melquiades Alvarez. [[Show a picture]] They will recognize you because there is a bust of yours in the hallway, and it is that you presided over this House. He founded the Liberal Democratic Republican Party, but his republican status did not save him from being killed by Republicans in Model Prison. By the way, of the eight ministers of the Republic killed in the Civil War, seven were killed by the Popular Front. [[Applauds]] The deaths of Alvarez and Asensio do fall within the time frame covered by the rule, but their exclusion from the status of victims is determined by the manicheo approach of the explanatory statement, in whose light the law must be interpreted; a explanatory statement explaining that the Republican side represented democracy and human rights, and how could the good people's side commit any crime? The understanding underlying the whole law is that victims must by definition be left-wing and right-wing victims. For all this, this is a totalitarian law, not only because of the way it divides the Spaniards and their ancestors into good and bad, but also because of the way it seeks to suppress the natural diversity of opinions on historical issues. [[Rumors]] In a free country, citizens are free to reach their own views on history, on the basis of their own readings. In a free country, historians are free to disagree. You seek to suppress this plurality by imposing by decree a sectarian historical account. But they are also going to pass this law by the hand of Bildu, and Bildu has demanded the extension of the period of application until 1983. You are 'batasunization' the memory; you are assuming the historical account of the extreme left, a story according to which the Transition did not really exist, the Transition would have been nothing more than a continuation of Francoism by other means; and what is more serious, the 388 murders committed by the ETA between 1976 and 1983 would become interpretable as democratic resistance to Francoist governments of Adolfo Suárez or Felipe González. [[Applauds]] Article 4 of the law states that the law is based on the right to moral reparation of the losers, the losers of 1939. We believe that the vanquished side has already been restored to its rights by numerous laws of the 1970s and 1980s. [[Rumors]] Military graduations, right to pensions, buildings were returned to the unions and left-wing parties. There was a true reconciliation prepared by gestures of concord from decades ago. For example, the declaration of the Communist Party of Spain in 1956 in favour of reconciliation between the Spanish, or the approach given by the Franco regime to the celebration of the twenty-five years of peace in 1964. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u134	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u135	It was a non-sectarian approach, an approach that does not emphasize victory or war, but the twenty-five years of later peace and prosperity. [[Protests Continue]] As for the Valley of the Fallen, which we do not know if you intend to destroy or merely resignify, well, it does not need resignification because from the beginning it was a monument not to the Franco victory, but to the last twinning of the fallen on both sides beyond death. [[Applauds.-Protests.-Various Members: Come on!]] That is why it is not presided over by a statue of Franco; what presides over the monument is not a statue of Franco, it is a cross. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, 146 of our predecessors, who occupied these same seats, were killed in the Civil War: 75 were killed by the People's Front, 71 were killed by the national side, to which would have to be added 33 executed in the post-war processes. On their behalf we ask you not to pass this law. Don't resurrect a cainism that cost us so much. [[Rumors and Protests]] We will recover the spirit of the Transition...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u136	Quiet, please. Mr. Contreras, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u137	...that it was a spirit of mutual forgiveness and not revenge. VOX, for its part, will support any initiatives of homage, of recognition to the fallen on both sides, who died pursuing what they considered a better Spain; as well as to the victims of political and religious persecution, without distinction of ideologies and sides, which this law does not do. [[Several Members: Now!]] Thank you, President. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Various Members: Freedom, freedom, freedom!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u138	For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor. [[Applauds.-A Member of Parliament: To work!-Protests.-A Member of Parliament: Now yes, right?]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u139	Thank you, President. On 14 October 1977 the Amnesty Act, a permanent claim by the anti-Franco opposition, was passed. It was adopted with 296 votes in favour, including those of the Socialist Group; 2 against and 18 abstentions, 16 from the People's Alliance. This is one of the milestones of the Transition. Five weeks later, the Pacts of Moncloa were signed. The economic pacts were signed by all the parties; the political pacts, all but the People's Alliance. It was another milestone of the Transition. A year later, on 31 October 1978, the draft Constitution was voted on here in Congress. It was supported by many parliamentary groups, including the Socialist Group; on the contrary, the People's Alliance had a sui generis position: 8 of its deputies supported it, 3 abstained and 5 voted against. It was the most important milestone of the Transition. All this shows that those who were more outside than inside, with doubts between reaction and progress, now, forty-four years later, cannot, even if they want, appropriate the Transition, the Amnesty Law and the Constitution. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right, nothing or anyone will separate the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party from the defence of the Transition and the Spanish Constitution of 1978. [[Applauds]] No one, no one, no one, but the heirs of the People's Alliance! The PP of Feijóo, Rajoy and Aznar is the Popular Alliance of Fraga and of the seven Francoist ministers, always with the same behavior, are never when the Spanish and Spanish need them. From the Transition and the Constitution is born the guiding thread that brings us to the present Law on Democratic Memory, and although the Transition was the most significant historical achievement of Spanish society, it left a loophole that this law definitively closes. I am referring to the dignity of the victims of Francoism, their recognition and their full reparation. The present law reflects the principles of international humanitarian law of truth, justice, reparation and guarantee of non-repetition. The contributions of the United Nations and the opportunity of the autonomous laws adopted in recent years have improved the historic memory law of 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, all the victims referred to in article 3 of this law find the mechanisms of judicial guardianship and the corresponding file of voluntary jurisdiction, and also find in this law the necessary instruments for full reparation. The illegality and illegitimacy of the Francoist courts is declared and, consequently, the illegality and radically nullity of the sentences handed down by those courts. It should be noted that the law establishes as a public policy the exhumation of the pits, which becomes a duty of all public authorities. Because Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is the European country with the most enforced disappearances, the most disappearances due to violence. For this reason, the State assumes the leadership of its search. The victim census is created; the DNA bank, to facilitate identification, and an annual exhumation plan. In addition, in order to advance the guarantee of access to the truth, access to all public and private archives is guaranteed. On the other hand, it should be noted that Spanish democracy has an ethical and moral debt to those people who were retaliated by Francoism. It therefore establishes recognition and tribute to all of them, declaring 31 October as the day for their homage, and 8 May as the day for the recognition of the victims of exile. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, this law places the victims of Francoism on the nuclear side, but there is no doubt that after the adoption of the Constitution, the reactionary forces in favour of the dictatorship did not become democrats on the morning of 29 December 1978, as has happened in other transitional processes in other countries. Faced with those who have wanted to undermine the honour of the victims of Francoism and have tried by all means to ensure that this law does not appear in the Official State Gazette, we Socialists reaffirm our unequivocal commitment to the truth. Thus, it must be clearly stated that the temporary scope of this law is from 18 July 1936 until 29 December 1978, the day on which the Constitution comes into force. And in that period all victims will enjoy the protection of this law, especially of the thirty-three first articles. And those Spanish and Spanish who were victims during the Transition, in the period from December 30, 1978 to December 31, 1983, who could suffer human rights violations by elements who wanted to maintain the dictatorship, can be repaired as a result of the work of the commission of studies set out in the sixteenth additional provision. In this way, victims who do not have the legal protection provided by this law can be recognized and redressed. I proclaim this with all frankness: this additional sixteenth provision protects, among others, students and workers who suffered reprisals, shots and who, in some cases, were killed when they were fighting for the consolidation of democracy. [[Applauds]] It does not protect terrorist gangs or counter-terrorism gangs, no matter what the truth is missing. The legal truth and the political truth are in the literal of the additional provision, although they are absent in the books published by those who from this bench of the right are opposed to condemning Francoism. The bill has been improved in the parliamentary process. More than fifty-five amendments have been incorporated, resulting in a law that improves the quality of our democracy. Because that's what this law of democracy is about. I would also like to acknowledge that, although much has been discussed about the law, it has not been sufficiently stressed that for the first time justice is done with the Spanish women who fought for democracy and freedom. [[Applauds]] From today on, women who fought against the dictatorship, who suffered a double violation of rights and who lit up, overcoming the vastness of fear, a free and democratic Spain, are also on an equal footing on the frontline of our democracy. I would also like to remind the victims' associations that have brought us here.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u140	Mr. García, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u141	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that the memory of the victims of Francoism calls upon our conscience to pass this law. Let us be grateful, because our debt to them is immeasurable. The democratic legacy that served as the basis and sustenance for the Transition and the 1978 Constitution was forged by his example, and even by his blood, by the victims of Francoism. For them, in front of oblivion, memory. Faced with totalitarianism, democracy. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u142	Thank you, Mr. García. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor briefly to thank you for your work in bringing this law forward, especially to all those parliamentary groups that have collaborated in unlocking this law in the Commission, and to finally reach a comprehensive agreement today that will improve and make our democracy and our country more dignified. I would also like to extend my thanks to all the individuals and associations who have collaborated in the previous process of participation in the law, which with their knowledge, ideas, experience and trajectory have improved, and much, the bill. Also the teams of the Secretariat of State for Democratic Memory and Relations with the Courts, which have done so much work to bring this law to light. It is a collective work that results in a very good law of memory, which will now continue its parliamentary processing in the Senate. Today we are living an important day in this House, ladies and gentlemen, as it was on December 26, 2007, when the first law of memory of our country, promoted by the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, was passed. That rule was one before and one after because, for the first time in democracy, public policies of memory were addressed and because, also for the first time in democracy, a first response was given to the void and oblivion suffered by the victims and their families during the war and the dictatorship. It was a suffering that had not been a priority among the challenges that were faced in the first years of democracy in our country, and that is why the 2007 law was also important, as it is today, in order to finally pass the darkest and blackest past in our country. This Government has always made it clear that among the challenges of the legislature was to place memory policies in line with the most advanced countries in our environment that have suffered dictatorships, and to that challenge this law answers today. Spain of the twenty-first century is a Spain that needs to deepen state policies in favour of truth, justice, reparation and the guarantee of non-repetition. For memory, ladies and gentlemen, is a right; it is a right of citizenship and it is a right, above all, of victims. Have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this context today we give the green light to this law of memory, a law of memory that says what it says and does not say what some say it says. That is why today I want to take this opportunity to address you and just read some excerpts from the law. This law condemns the coup d'état of 18 July 1936 and condemns the dictatorship. It literally says the law: The coup d'état of July 18, 36 and the subsequent Franco dictatorship are repudiated and condemned, and the regime that emerged from the military struggle, which was replaced by the proclamation of a social and democratic State entitled to the entry into force of the Constitution, is declared illegal. This is what the law says, not what some say the law says. [[Applauds]] Secondly, it pays tribute to all the victims of the Civil War, on one side and on the other. And also, of course, it pays tribute to the victims of the dictatorship in our country, which there were, and many. [[Applauds]] And listen to me well: this government is always with all the victims, with all; tightening them, helping themselves and not trying to use them. [[Applauds]] The law defines as a victim any person who has suffered physical, moral or psychological harm or impairment of his or her fundamental rights as a result of violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law during the period covered by the 1936 coup d'état, the subsequent war and the dictatorship, including the period up to the entry into force of the Constitution. This is what the law says and not what some say the law says. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the Amnesty Act is recognized as what it is: an achievement by the Democrats, which of course is not repealed. The law says: The first democratically elected Parliament since the end of the war passed Law 46/1977, a historic claim of the anti-Franco opposition. This law had the virtue of amnesty for all crimes of political intent and offences of a labor and trade union nature. And the law recognizes the will to reconcile and build an advanced democratic society. This is what the law says and not what some say the law says. [[Applauds]] Fourthly, the Democratic Memory Act that this House is going to pass today highlights both the Transition and our 1978 Constitution. The law says - intercomilado -: 'The current Constitution was founded on a broad social and political commitment to overcome the serious and profound wounds that had suffered Spanish society during the War and the forty years of Franco dictatorship. This consensus was the spirit of our political transition, and it has been the basis of our country's era of greatest splendor and prosperity. The Transition assumed the democratic and dignity legacy that several generations of Spanish and Spanish had forged around the defense of democracy, the anti-fascist struggle in Europe and the recovery of individual and collective freedoms in our country.' This is what the law says and not what some say the law says. [[Applauds]] This is the law and this is the truth of the law. In addition, the law contains many other advances, especially humanitarian ones. Of course, the State recognizes that from the entry into force of this law the remains of the victims of the Civil War must be recovered. Who is able to deny the victims the recovery of the remains of their loved ones? Who? Who? Well, that sets the law. Just as this law also recognizes the struggle of women in that dictatorship, who were victims of double-crossing, sometimes suffering Francoist repression, and also for the mere fact of being women, comrades and companions of people working for democracy. [[a Member of Parliament: Lie!]] [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government present]] And I will also give you other information, ladies and gentlemen: there is a law that is in force, which was adopted almost unanimously in this House, also under a socialist government, Law 29/2011, on Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism, which defends all victims of terrorism and which, of course, this government endorses and implements every day, because we are with each and every one of the victims in our country who have suffered harm, either by the dictatorship or by terrorism. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government present]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the entry into force of this law will become the best tool to achieve, indeed, reparation for the victims; to ensure that the aspirations and demands of families, of the people who suffered, of associations, of historians, of researchers in the field of memory are consumed. We are already late, we are already late, 2022; many years has needed Spanish democracy for this law to come into force. This Law is a law for the reunion, a law that makes us better as a country, a law that passes definitively from the darkest era of our recent history, with the will to know what we were, with the will to understand what we are and to decide together what we want to be in the future, but certainly what we are going to be is a better Spain, a more dignified Spain, a more humanitarian Spain, a Spain where truth prevails and lies will soon be forgotten. Thank you. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and from the members of the Government present, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u144	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u145	We turn to the next item on the agenda, direct and single reading of the proposal for an organic law amending article 570 bis of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. I would remind you that, after this debate, the amendments relating to the Commission's opinion and this initiative will be voted on. Three amendments have been tabled to the whole of the alternative text and one amendment to the wording of the above-mentioned proposal for a law. In defence of its amendments, Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remain silent. If you have to vacate the Chamber, do it quickly so that we can continue the debate. If not, ladies and gentlemen, with this background noise, it is impossible to concentrate and to make an intervention from the rostrum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u146	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. We said yesterday, speaking of this proposal for a government law, that it was a further misconception of the government, that it was a cacicada, that it was an infamy, but it is that it is that infamy, at that time, of that stone more on the way to the week of the defiances of the Spanish government, a week in which we have seen how the Socialist Party assumes the idea of a mid-communist country of the United Nations We can with the rise of taxes. We can even ask you to establish a tax on the extraordinary profits of supermarkets, in the image and likeness of your Orbán correspondent in Hungary. Populisms are the same for the right as for the left. A Socialist Party that commemorated the 25th anniversary of the vile murder of Miguel Ángel Blanco by handing over the historical memory law to Bildu. Here I want to pause and say that I am very proud of all the attacks I have received in the previous intervention by Podemos and, in particular, by Mr Enrique Santiago, because I am very proud that my country has been the first in the history of humanity that has been able to move from a dictatorship to an advanced democracy in peace without bloodshed, evolving from the previous system. Can you imagine what would have happened in Spain to Franco's death if he had been running the Socialist Party Pedro Sánchez instead of Felipe González or if instead of the great Santiago Carrillo...?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u147	Mr. Bal...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u148	I shall return to the matter immediately.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u149	I have to ask you, please, to get to the point, because going back on past debates doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u150	Yeah, I'll be right back. But it's about allusions, it's about allusions. [[applause]] They can't mess with me...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u151	He does not have a speaking time, he has the time to speak on the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u152	I'm on my way. I'm going to the point. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u153	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u154	I'm going to the point. There would have been another civil war. Today we find that tomorrow Pedro Sánchez receives Pere Aragonès at the blackmail table. And what you're going to say, as a result of what we're seeing here - and I stick to the question, Madam President - is: look, I've already controlled this from the Constitutional Court, Pere, I've already controlled it. We are going to control the Constitutional Court from behind - the same thing that Cosidó wanted to do with the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court - and, moreover, we are going to do it quickly and running, at the last plenary session of this session, together with the debate of the state of the nation, which is not noticed much, fast and running. This must be Pedro Sánchez's survival manual: everything is fast and running in order to stay in power and have control of the Constitutional Court, it will not be that his colleagues in Esquerra Republicana or Bildu get angry and withdraw his support. Meanwhile, the law of the ALS is still in the drawer. That is, that we deal quickly with what keeps us in power, but we do not deal with what can alleviate the suffering of Spanish citizens. [[The Lord]] This is basically nothing but an assault on the institutions, to put an end to the system of democratic counterweights. This is simply the survival of Pedro Sánchez. What he has done also with the INE, because he did not like the numbers; what he has done with the CNI, because his partners in Esquerra asked him: that they are spying on me, that they are spying on me. But how come they won't spy on you if you want to attack the Spanish Constitution! How am I not going to perform my duties? This is what they are trying to do with the Banco de España too, pushing the governor of the Banco de España, because they don't like the figures of gross domestic product, because they don't like to get mixed up with the pension system and its sustainability, because they don't like to talk about the Austrian backpack. And finally, what is more, is what they are trying to do with the National Securities Market Commission, shortening the term of office of its president because it has drawn the government's attention by invading a private company called Indra, causing the assignment of its independent advisers. This is an amendment to the totality of the anti-democratic positions of the Government of Spain, not only to this law; the Government of Spain wants a Constitutional Court that is understanding with its postulates, that is connivable with the partners of the Government, that is next to what is called the most progressive government in history. Pedro Sánchez will tell Pere Aragonès tomorrow: Don't worry about the Constitutional Court; you can set up another referendum on self-determination as in 2017. Well, and by the way, with regard to that question of unconstitutionality that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has raised by the Catalan law and decree that prevent Catalan families from educating their children at least 25% in Catalan, don't worry, we already call our Constitutional Court by phone and you can continue with your fascist and sectarian policy that doesn't recognize the rights of Catalan families. This is what the Socialist Party is doing. He is, as a jailer of the judiciary, teaching the judiciary the keys to the prison, saying, "Here I command." This goes hand in hand with the continuing contempt that we have seen during this legislature for the judiciary by the executive branch, because the judiciary is the dam of containment of the arbitrariness of the executive branch. We have seen it perfectly with the process, we have seen it with the pardons of those convicted of very serious crimes, we have seen it with the political pardons of the so-called protective mothers, who kidnapped their children and did not recognize their parents' rights. Yes, this is what the judiciary does: limiting the power of the executive. We are always one day closer to those convicted of the trial being returned to prison thanks to the citizens' appeal; we are one day closer to Puigdemont being handed over to Spanish justice and being tried for serious crimes against the Constitution thanks to the judiciary. No wonder, of course, those frontal attacks on the judiciary that we have seen in Unity We can, with Pablo Iglesias, with Ione Belarus, but even with the Minister of Justice herself, getting in touch with the Constitutional Court, with his rulings that declared the state of alarm unconstitutional. The Minister of Justice, Mrs Llop, criticising the Constitutional Court. Europe has drawn our attention. He said that he would even open an infringement procedure against Spain, which is already well, that they are already tired of the state's attorney general depending on the executive and that the General Council of the Judiciary would not be elected by its peers. And you and you have been dividing the General Council of the Judiciary for thirty-five years, which elects the judges who then judge them for corruption, as you have done in this legislature, dividing the Constitutional Court, putting people close to the United Left, putting people linked to the corruption of the People's Party. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] They have also done so with the Data Protection Agency, and it has had to be the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court that amends the plan. They have done so with the Court of Auditors; they have put in the technical general secretariat of Enrique López, the chief of staff of Margarita Robles, they have kept Dolores Genaro, procile to the independenceists, and they have cut off Margarita Mariscal De Gante's head. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, have done this together with the members of the Socialist Party. The payment for the services provided to their friends: not putting the most valid ones, but the most friends, at the head of the institutions. That is why we are presenting this amendment as a whole, because we want the twelve members of the judiciary to be elected by their peers, with a much better procedure than the one proposed by the People's Party or the one proposed by VOX, because it only takes twenty-five guarantees to be able to present themselves. We do not want to replace political parties with judicial associations and that this is a debate not between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, but between the Professional Association of the Judiciary and Judges and Judges for Democracy; we want anyone who has a name, who has prestige within the judiciary, to be present. This is what Europe is asking, and this is what the Socialist Party does not see, which continues to insist that it must be the political power that interferes with the judiciary, despite the warnings made by Europe, despite the shame that comes to one when compared to a regime like that of Poland. Meanwhile, the judiciary agonizes; while, we find that the Dispute-Administrative Chamber or the Social Chamber of the Supreme Court are without people, that the collegiate bodies have neither appointed presidents nor chamber presidents: sixty-four vacant positions in the leadership of the judiciary without being covered by the reform of this government. What do we want with this amendment? We want no talk of a progressive, conservative or communist Constitutional Court. We want high-ranking people to be elected in the Constitutional Court on the basis of their merits: jurists of recognized competence, people with a sense of state, people with academic heights who have the respect of jurists. You know what? Throughout my professional life as a state attorney I have met many people who meet this profile, but you don't care; you want friends, you want people who carry the card in their mouths, you want the person who disconnects the phone when you have to ask a favor for a sentence. What causes this? What causes this is that when a ruling is handed down by the Constitutional Court, immediately the media, immediately people say: of course, as we have a conservative Constitutional Court, that is why this ruling has been issued. What we want with this amendment is for the institutions of the State to be credible, for the sentences to be respected because the people in charge of these constitutional bodies are indisputable people. And it is also necessary to do so with the rest of the State institutions that have public relevance: with Spanish Radiotelevision, with the Centre for Sociological Research, with the National Institute of Statistics, with the National Securities Market Commission, with the National Market and Competition Commission. Yeah, it's a dream. In this country, when you talk like that, you seem naive. It is a dream, yes, that in Spain we have independent institutions that ensure for the general interest of all Spaniards and do not make political propaganda of a certain political party. But you know what I tell you? That with the illusion you can. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u155	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u156	Thank you very much. The Spanish need to know why VOX considers it essential that there be a third power in Spain, the Judicial Power, free and independent of any interference of political parties. We have talked many times about reasons that address constitutional issues, political issues, even issues of the efficiency of the administration of justice itself, but it may be much easier to understand if we put on the table in this debate, in our amendment to the whole, three examples of why when justice is left alone it does justice, no more or less. [[Applauds]] When political parties - let's put two examples: the Socialist Party and the PNV - decide to agree to destroy a part of our historical, architectural, cultural, environmental heritage, when they agree to trample the law and common sense, it is necessary to have an independent justice. I am referring to the barracks of Loiola, an alphonsian-style military building in San Sebastián, Gipuzkoa, home of the glorious infantry regiment Tercio Viejo of Sicily n.o 67. In the enterprising pact between the Socialist Party and the PNV it was decided to proceed with the following plan: one, it will be excluded from the special urban protection, within the special protection plan of the City of San Sebastián, in Gipuzkoa; two, once excluded from protection, are disaffected from the interest for national defense and, therefore, of the Armed Forces, more specifically of the Army; three, once disaffected, would proceed to the complete demolition of the barracks of Loiola - they have heard well -, converting their facades, their shields, their courtyards, their roofs, their historical beams into a pile of rubble that went to the landfill, and four, putting on top a real estate operation of the City of San Sebastián. Once again, yes, once again - and although it weighs us - we would have liked to be accompanied by other political parties, for example, the People's Party. But no, it couldn't have been this time either, as it was not when we filed in solitary the complaints that sat on the bench to the coupts of Catalonia in 2017, or when we brought to the Constitutional Court, among other resources, also in solitary, gentlemen of the People's Party, the fraudulent or unconstitutional states of alarm, or when the freedom and control that this Parliament should exercise is sought. [[applause]] Only VOX reacted in court. Well, on this occasion to which I refer, VOX initiated a legal action, with its corresponding cost, with its expert reports of urbanism, historical and legal, in order to achieve, as it has been, a historical judgment that has been issued by the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country, declaring the barracks of Loiola Good of Cultural Interest of special protection, one of the maximum urbanistic protections. To turn it into rubble to equivalence with the Palace of the Diputation or with the Kursaal Center itself. VOX, with this action, has not only managed to prevent the demolition of a historic building, of a singular building, which, although very important, is less so; VOX has managed to avoid with this legal action that becomes rubble what is nothing but a symbol of history, a symbol of Spain, a memory and a symbol of our Armed Forces. [[Applauds]] And since VOX does not stop, as VOX does not ask permission or forgiveness when it has to act, I am already advancing them - and I will not extend myself in this - two more examples in which the action of VOX and the action of a justice without being conditioned by political parties will, first, succeed in sitting on the bench, in Andalusia, mayors of the Socialist Party, the People's Party and Podemos for the tremendous corruption issue that means Giahsa and, second, bringing the National High Court and the Supreme Court to the fugitive coupt Puigdemont, as the European Court is already recognizing us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are three examples that show the Spaniards - and we could be setting examples all day today and tomorrow - that when justice is allowed, politicians who trample on the law, disregard the Constitution and violate fundamental rights and public freedoms are put in their place. In this amendment to the whole of VOX that it has submitted with alternative text, compared to the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the amendment of article 570 bis of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, VOX recalls once again in this rostrum that article 117 of the Constitution gives the mandate to judges and magistrates, who must act only subject to the rule of law and nothing more than the rule of law. Article 122.3 therefore established in the Constitution that of the twenty members of the General Council of the Judiciary, eight, unfortunately, would be elected by politicians, by political parties, four by Congress and four by the Senate. Twenty members, however, decided the constituents and, therefore, the Spanish people that the majority, twelve of its members, would not have political origin, would not have parliamentary origin and would therefore be elected by and from among the judges. Although some would like to twist the Constitution, only eight would have to come from the election of political parties, Congress and the Senate, the other twelve would have to come out of judges and magistrates. Only the Judicial Power Act 1980 respected this constitutional mandate, respected this constitutional spirit that the majority of the General Council of the Judiciary should be an independent body from the interferences, interests and corruptions of political parties. But the 1985 law came, and it was the Socialist Party, yes, in the first place, that repealed it to carry out the election of those twelve members also by the decision of political parties of Congress and the Senate. And I say first of all, because it was the Socialist Party, but the People's Party is no less responsible. He had absolute majorities and only made makeup that did not change the essence of the problem. The essence of the problem, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that you continue to decide, together with the Socialist Party and its partners, who sit on the General Council of the Judiciary, which is as much as saying who sit on the Supreme Court, on the high courts, on the Constitutional Court, on the Court of Auditors and on many other bodies that have already been mentioned here today. In short, since the 1985 law, this perversion, which has been the appropriation by the Legislature and the Executive of the third power of the State, is unfortunately maintained. And here is our proposal, our amendment to the whole and also, of course, our proposal to the Spaniards, in which we would like - we say it loud and clear - to have the support of other parties, especially the People's Party. The VOX proposal is clear and is based on four principles: first, that, according to the Constitution, those twelve members of the General Council of the Judiciary who are to be elected by judges and magistrates are elected by them, by all the categories of judges and magistrates who are active; that it is through personal vote, equal vote, direct vote and secret vote; that it is in a single constituency for the whole of Spain, without any condition or endorsement, as it has now been intended, neither of a personal nature nor of associations of any political nature, however much they all say that they are professional, and lastly that the elected cannot in any way be those who are national or autonomous deputies or senators or councillors in active or have been in the previous legislation - because of the direct link they have with political parties - that in the last four years they have not been part of the electoral lists in political parties and that in the last four years they have not held or held high office in the Administration for the appointment of political power. With this I would not win VOX, with this I would not win any political party, they would win freedom, justice and independence. The question we ask ourselves is why the rest of the political parties, except for some exceptions with makeup, did not want to raise this flag for the division of powers and for the independence of the judiciary. At the beginning of my speech I gave three examples. Unfortunately, there are many more, and new examples will come in which we will only be safe for the Spaniards if we can count on the guarantees of a judicial power that in no way, in its choice or operation, depends on the interference of any political party, of any party, and of course never of the Government of the nation. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u157	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I would have liked to start my speech by greeting the Minister of Justice, but, dear Paco, where is the Minister of Justice, who does not come to this House even for the rules that fall within her competence? [[Applauds]] I ask you, please, to convey, on behalf of the People's Party, an affectionate greeting to the Minister of Justice. Get away from me! Ladies and gentlemen, we have been listening since last Tuesday to the reasons given by the President of the Government and the Socialist Party to justify the adoption of the bill that we are debating today, and they are doing so with arguments drawn, if I may, from the conceptual Macedonian and the intellectual salad that accompany all the political action of Mr Sánchez and that I hope do not cloud the good judgment of the rest of the groups in this House when voting on the disproposal presented to us by the Executive; a disproposal to which yesterday we knew we should add the arrogance of the Socialist Party, expressed in the form of an amendment, to summon the General Council of the Judiciary to appoint the members of the Constitutional Council in three months. I imagine that the PSOE must be in a very haste to settle the debts incurred with Mr.Conde-Pumpido, with Mr.De Prada or with any other, and therefore impose this new drag so that it can parasitize another institution, in this case the Constitutional Court. But although that is really serious, the unfortunate thing is that we are no longer surprised. You have exhausted our capacity for astonishment after listening last Tuesday to Mr Sánchez use an argument that puts his hair to the point and that is able to freeze the blood to anyone who believes in the rule of law. He said - and his spokesman reiterated it yesterday - that the People's Party, when it is in opposition, resorts to the judges and the Constitutional Court to - I read textually - revoke the democratic will and the social progress approved by this House. Get away from me!, the things to hear! And he did it by perfectly realizing the bulk of his words and, which is sadder, implicitly exposing the President's vision of what the judiciary and the power of the Constitutional Court should be. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Government, when going for all, gives the impression that he understands that these bodies must be at the service of his political agenda and, therefore, must be organs that must be parasitized so that they do not disrupt the agreements that the Government has reached with Bildu and with independence - that is the reality of the rule that we are debating today - with that Bildu now recognized as a valid interlocutor in the person who headlined the cover of the newspaper that he directed with the phrase 'Ortega Lara returns to prison' the day after being released after 532 days of captivity. These are the men and women of peace to whom you, lords of the Socialist Party, have linked your future or what you call de-judicializing politics and conflict, granting pardons and forgetting that this means putting a nation over 500 years old, such as the Spanish nation, in a genuine and unworthy situation. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules of a basic syllogism are very simple: if A is equal to B and B is equal to C, C is equal to A. There is no greater complexity. Therefore, if the People's Party's appeals to the Constitutional Court are intended to revoke the democratic will expressed by the Courts, could you explain to me what was the purpose of the 144 appeals submitted to the Constitutional Court by the socialists during the years in which the PSOE was in opposition? Could you explain what evils judges pursue when they present the unconstitutionality issues provided for in Title X of our Constitution? [[Applauds]] When the Ombudsman and the Spaniards come to the High Court in defence of their fundamental rights, are they defending those same rights or the interests of the cenacles of the lords with pure and the media terminals, does that mean what it means, which we do not understand? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you do not realize that you and the President of the Government are making the ridiculous use of these childish arguments and that this opposition is not made up of infants, but rather of people who are more mature and quite serene and with a sufficient capacity for reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that you think that you are made of another paste and that that already justifies the adoption of these measures - the paste you are made of is that of moral supremacy - but, despite that, be aware of the gravity of what you are saying, of the gravity of your arguments. Someone from his party, in this process of constant degradation of Spanish democracy, should remind Mr Sánchez that Spain is not Venezuela, even if he strives to make our democracy look more and more like the sad democracy that our brother Venezuelan people suffer. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that Mr Sánchez's victimistic delusion, which is considered the epicenter of a conspiracy, does not know very well with whom or what, serves the Spaniards? Or does it only serve the will of the President of the Government, as my colleague Jaime Mateu has said in a brilliant speech, with his firm desire to screw himself into the chair of the Moncloa? Do you really believe that you can make us commulgate with mill wheels this size? Have you really not learned anything from what has happened to you in the last five elections, in which the Spaniards have told you: is it enough to treat us as if we were cattle? Don't you really realize how unusual your arguments are, how sad, how puerile and how empty they are? Ladies and gentlemen, history shows us many examples of dictators whose end has been preceded by the constant presence of this kind of paranoid delusion that Mr Sánchez is now presenting, I imagine because he considers his time to be running out. But yesterday I also heard other arguments that also put my hair at the top, in this case I think I remember that they were from the compañero of Junta and other groups. They use as an argument to discredit the People's Party, in essence, that we are opposed to the renewal of the Council because we want to control the judges who are responsible for judging cases that affect us in the area of corruption, as if this party had been at some point above the law or as if any court had not exercised against this party those actions that it considered appropriate. [[Applauds]] Command, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Trillo was saying and what I shall avoid saying in this rostrum. But if I apply the syllogism of the past now, is it not that you, gentlemen of post-convergence, are committed to controlling the judges who must judge the Pujol case and the others who affect them? Or will the PSOE not be interested in controlling the judges who have to judge the ERE case in Andalusia, which, however painful it is, is the biggest corruption scandal in our country's history and which affects two of its presidents? Or is it not that the PSOE has an interest in stopping the investigation that affects the illegal financing, no less than for thirty years, of its party in my land, in the Valencian Community, unravelled by the Azud case, in which they have had to put their spokesman to defend the main defendant, Mr Jaime Febrer? [[Applauds]] Aren't you afraid that Mr. Ximo Puig's name will appear in that summary? Because Mr Ximo Puig has not yet said a single word, he has not told us that his name does not appear in that summary. Aren't you afraid of these issues? Because, if not, you wouldn't understand. Ladies and gentlemen, they say that we do not comply with the Constitution, and they say so with the endorsement that they have been repeatedly condemned by the High Court for violating the Magna Charter, violating the rights of the Spaniards and the most sacred freedoms. Is that the reason that drives them to control the Constitutional and the General Council of the Judiciary? Is it, as Mr Bal said, a question of putting an end to the last barrier capable of putting an end to his abuses? Ladies and gentlemen, you have rejected the offer of the People's Party to renew under the current Council system, saying that the Constitution is not being negotiated, but yet you have continued to speak of constitutional cowardice, the day of the marmot, and now you add the ignominy that this new amendment means. His spokesman mentioned yesterday the first statement of the second recommendation that the European Union made yesterday, and he did so by stopping in the first coma - which is curious - not to mention that after that second coma the European Union calls for a legal reform for judges to choose judges, which is the same thing that the People's Party has proposed - what a coincidence - and - what a surprise, ladies and gentlemen - the same thing that you reject. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, stop being gay, as the classic used to say. If there is no Council it is, do not be deceived, because you do not want. That is why, after setting your position, you have forced Commissioner Reynders in just 24 hours to go out in the media to say, and I read textually: if there is no renewal and change of the system, we will act against Spain. And it hasn't even been 24 hours. Are you going to jeopardize the prestige of Spain and the European aid for its encroachment? How can you continue to say no to the proposal of the President of the People's Party? Why do you keep saying no to the first of the recommendations that the European Union sets out and that it refers to the democratic insult that it means to keep Dolores Delgado as the state's attorney general? Could you tell me how many measures have been taken to ensure or guarantee the independence of the State Attorney General since the European Union recommended it more than three years ago? The answer is no, ladies and gentlemen. But let's go further. Could you explain to us what is the real reason why you, such as Mr Erre who is wrong or Mr El Empecinado, are in a position contrary to what Europe requires, the Venice Commission, GRECO, the Council of Europe, the four associations of judges and all legal operators, without exception? What's the reason? Yesterday Mr Aranda quoted Judges for Democracy, an association that deserves all our respect. It represents 11% of non-associated judges and 19% of associate judges, but it holds more than 30% of the posts appointed by the General Council of the Judiciary. The same is true of the Progressive Association of Prosecutors, since Dolores Delgado has appointed 70% of the positions coming from the association to which she belonged. Some explanation should be given, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, about your incompetence in not changing and not negotiating, because, if not, someone might think that your position has much more to do with not the constitutional submission that you feel to the People's Party, but with the defense of certain positions of privilege. Ladies and gentlemen, neither the Government, even if you think otherwise, should remind you of this, nor any of you have the right to parasiticise the institutions of the state, which you do with all the institutions that are being shot at, and I will not go into detailing them. We ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, not to make us commulgate with mill wheels. The proposal of the president of my party reflects our hopes focused on the defence of the rule of law, do not reflect our experience with you, accustomed to parasitizing the institutions. Hopes in the face of experiences. With regard to the proposals for amendments to the whole of the other groups, we will not vote in favour for a reason or question of substance: we believe that it should be the judiciary that is responsible for designing the electoral system by which judges must elect judges, and not, as they propose in their amendments to the whole...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u159	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u160	...,the Legislature. I end up saying that we too know how to go after everyone. For us to go for all means to fight in good order the elections and for you to go for all means, seen as seen, to parasitize the institutions. As we have said so many times, you are to judicial independence and independence...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u161	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u162	...of the institutions what scum to the wood. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u163	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Season one, two and three. When it seems that season one cannot go any worse, comes the second and third, and Mr. Santamaría's masculeta. From the outset, the minister, working; it is something more than we can say about Mr Feijóo, who has been president for a while and is not known to him any action, does not even endure here the whole debate of the nation. And, secondly, if there's a table, read it right. What I said and reiterate is this: when the right wins, the progress achieved back in the Legislature; when the right loses, they back in the Judiciary. That's what I said. Mr Bal - I do not see it - you said, if I did not take it wrong, that if I had presided over the 1982 government Pedro Sánchez and not Felipe González here there would have been another civil war. I formally ask you not to pass so many red lines that, in the search for the tweet, do not insult the president of the government, the secretary general of the PSOE and my party. [[Applauds]] I ask you to remove that ignominy. Those are very serious words. What are you implying? Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I shall summarise in these ten minutes some of the evidence of these more than 1300 days. To begin with, its institutional blockade is a very serious, very serious event, and undermines the principle of loyalty to the institutions. Look, I'm gonna make it very easy for you to understand. Of you, my group, this Congress, the citizens and Europe expect only one thing, one sentence, one will: comply with the Constitution. Fill it out and let us renew the General Council of the Judiciary. The rest are excuses, delays and obstacles not to comply with their constitutional obligation. Two. Ladies and gentlemen, when the right governs - I repeat - we go back in rights in the Legislature; when the right does not rule, we look for setbacks by judicial means. It happens in the United States, and you want to copy that model and move it to Spain. You make an amendment to the whole progress of this country, because when the PP enters through the door progress exits through the window. [[Applauds]] Three. Let's talk even clearer. For you - it has been seen these two days - this has never been a debate on Council reform. Never. I wish that was the debate for you. For you that is a matter of power, of maintaining power, which citizens with their vote and this Congress with their progressive majority have democratically snatched from you. [[Applauds]] In the more than 1300 days - it is said soon - that we have been with the Council without renewing its party has changed its leader, but not its objective, that nothing changes. And, as you've seen a moment ago, they act as co-ordinates. Mr. Bal - again Sesame Barrio -, left and right Don't look any further, they're there. [[pointing to the seats on the left and right]] Four. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also asking you very simply. Why do they want to condition justice by preventing the normal application of the relief imposed by the Constitution? Yesterday I was telling you which prodest, who benefits? Today I say to you, moreover, that if the Constitution imposes the existence of an independent justice and if one of the mechanisms it introduces is that of the relays in the dome of the Judiciary to avoid abuses, you, by blocking the renewal of the Council imposed by the Constitution, are attacking the guarantee of judicial independence from the very beginning. [[Applauds]] Five. You speak of Europe, and you have gone to Europe to speak ill of Spain these two years to prevent European resilience funds. You are responsible for the destabilisation of the institutions and for the cause that Europe insists on the priority need to renew the Council. If you do not want to listen to us, listen to Europe, to which you go - I insist - to speak ill of Spain every time you invite them or make a trip. Six. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform we are bringing does not constitute any systemic threat; in any case, it restores to the Council a competence to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court. But it is that only the dialectics installed in this House, the confrontational one, which are leading one another and suffering another, and the blunt blockade of the PP allow us to be in situations like this today. It is their blockade, it is this dialectic of confrontation, because no institution or matter is outside the policy of confrontation of their party to impose their story and preserve a power, which the citizens - I repeat - withdrew from the ballot box. You are. The systematic refusal of the People's Party for the most pilgrim excuses - yesterday told them twelve, today we can incorporate even thirteen or fourteen - to renew the constitutional organs leads us to the imperative need for this reform. Look, it is always said that the constituent should have foreseen how to act in the face of some parties' failure to comply with constitutional mandates that guarantee democratic normality. The truth is that the constituent was far from being able to think that there would be representatives of the citizens who would act with that disloyalty to the constitutional system, with so much contumacy and on so many fronts. I remind you that it is not so long ago that we saw a President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, in an act of constitutional disloyalty, refuse to accept the commission of the head of State to form Government, leaving the country paralyzed, since they could not start counting the deadlines to call new elections if they did not submit to the confidence of the House. They change the leaders, but they don't change the shapes, they're the same. Eight. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said here, what are we talking about when we talk about what we are talking about? A brief review can illustrate this: the PP's existing remedies against minimum living income, against various articles of laws and general budgets of the State, against autonomous laws, against laws we made in this Congress on COVID during the pandemic, against the law regulating the Council in office, against the law regulating the labour rights of persons engaged in the distribution of digital platforms, against the law of euthanasia, also against the law of education, against the decree on housing and rent, and, yes, I do not forget, since 2005 against the law of abortion; I imagine they will also put an appeal against the law that prevents women who are going to abort abortion clinics. [[Applauds]] That's also what's at stake, of course. But let's go to VOX, they don't leave in rositas here; well, in fact they leave here, they must be somewhere else. Resources, many, against the state of alarm, against measures taken at the worst time in the pandemic, when they said it was necessary and then resorted to them. Appeals also against the general budgets of the State, against the reduction of time in public employment, against the law on comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from violence, there is also a VOX appeal against the law reforming civil and procedural legislation to support persons with disabilities to exercise their legal capacity, also against the law on the protection of socially vulnerable consumers, also against the education law and, I imagine, also against the Historical Memory Act, when this Congress and the Senate adopt it. Ladies and gentlemen, we're on it. That's why, yes, Mr. Santamaría, I'm sorry to see this PP too. I regret that you are so calm after 1300 days without renewing the Council. Look, the non-renewal strategy isn't anything, it's not nonsense, it's not about politicians, it's about each other, it's much more than that. This is about the rules that we have among all to respect and make the institutions work. This is about democracy, yes. Comply with the Constitution and renew the Council. [[Applauds]] It's over, ladies and gentlemen. Robert Kennedy said that every time we look the other way when we see that the law is mocked, when we tolerate what we know is wrong, when we close our eyes and ears to the corrupt because we are too busy or too scared, when we do not speak or raise our voice, we give a blow against freedom, decency and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u165	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. I intervene to reject, as I did in the plenary session... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u167	Wait a minute, Mr. Oblanca. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's keep quiet. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u168	As I said, I intervened to reject, as I did in the plenary session we held yesterday, this express, foolish and contumid proposal with which the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to reform the Organic Law of the Judiciary. The consequence of this Reform on a fundamental issue for any quality democratic regime is a political invasion that seriously undermines the institutional system in one of its most sensitive structures. Yesterday afternoon, like other speakers, I pointed out that the changes proposed by the Socialist Group run counter to European jurisprudence. Today, in a enlightening interview published by the newspaper El Mundo, the very Commissioner of Justice of the European Union, Mr Reynders, warns of the possibility of opening a sanctioning procedure to our country for the violation of the rule of law, a warning that it should not fall into a broken bag, although we already see that it does. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the efforts of the members of the Socialist Group, particularly his spokesman, Mr Aranda, it continues to be unacceptable that the majority supporting the Government has given up reaching consensus with the opposition on such a sensitive matter, which, moreover, has been systematically used by the Government to falsely attribute to the opposition a blockade on the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. In any case, I would like to point out that, according to the Forum - we are expressly committed to this in our electoral programme - all legislative changes should be distinguished by seeking and serving to strengthen the independence of judges, and always to ensure the separation of powers. Here it goes in the opposite direction. We're in front of a championship trailer. The amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary is moving towards a gross partisan division, which is absolutely alien to all European standards of judicial independence. It should be stressed that for years the European Union has excluded procedures which, like those raised in the text we are debating today, politically infect the governing bodies of judges and deepen the distrust of society towards its most relevant institutions, uniquely towards justice. Unfortunately, the changes promoted by the Socialist Group do not seem to be distributed. Allow me to recall my speech at the Senate Plenary on 27 November 2013. The government then was of the People's Party and the Minister of Justice was Mr Ruiz-Gallardón. That intervention was, by the way, the only one of a session convened exclusively to appoint ten members of the General Council of the Judiciary and to complete the quota approved the day before by the Congress of Deputies. Looking back on my words and my criticisms in the Journal of Sessions, I have the impression that those who promoted that agreement, the Socialist People's Party, should not have liked much, and that today, in view of this manifest outrage at the judicial independence that now comes from the hands of the socialist government and its parliamentary allies, they are being implemented, greatly aggravated by the fact that what is now being proposed is not the election, but the law by which a colossal manoeuvring of justice is going to take place, something that is not new in a government that appointed Mrs Dolores Delgado as the State's Attorney General, threefold reprobated by the General Courts during her disastrous stage as Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, three amendments have been tabled to this parliamentary procedure in order to bring about changes to the letter of socialist taste and its allies, all of which I voted for because, although with different nuances, they try to prevent a legislative change from being consumed that will turn a substantial part of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary into permanent debts of those who promote them. In this sense, it is not surprising the reluctance, the negative comments and the discrepancies that from the judicial spheres themselves have slipped before the relationship and the picturesque processing of this reform. Ladies and gentlemen, in the constituent session of this XIV Legislature, a number of elected members of the General Courts used peculiar formulas to circumvent the oath or promise to comply with and enforce the Spanish Constitution. Now, however, the twisted changes that are intended by this law will be backed, precisely, by many of those who do not believe in Spain or in the Magna Charter, the High Court or the judges. What socialists defend as a step towards judicial independence is, look where it is looked at and with this text that will be approved today, a triumph for those who want to undermine the institutional framework. Today, justice is the basic pillar in the rule of law that this law permeates with partyism and sectarianism. Indeed, Mr Aranda, this is a democracy, and that is precisely why today is a very sad and very dark day for Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u169	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are dealing here today with this proposal concerning the Constitutional Court, the renewal of four persons by Congress, four by the Senate, two by the Government and two by the General Council of the Judiciary and how the last reform of the General Council of the Judiciary affects the appointment of the two persons it appoints. It is curious that many of the speeches that have taken place so far have gone on the Judicial Power. Some would have to go back to law classes to know that one thing is the judiciary and the General Council of the judiciary and another is the Constitutional Court, which is not a judicial body. The fact is that the ceiling for new appointments, for the situation of totally expired posts, does, and from here comes this correction that is intended to be made by the Socialist Group. Yesterday there were a number of speeches on this issue and today the debate is repeated in this one-reading method. Let me give you a couple of thoughts on this. The first is in relation to the single reading. It is a method that is often used here to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House and that was used in the Parliament of Catalonia in October 2017 and was very criticized. Today, however, it does serve to amend the Organic Law of the Judiciary and to touch on the appointment of members of the Constitutional Court. Another reflection is in relation to yesterday's interventions. The sham on this issue is common between the PP and the PSOE, because the conflict is between the two major parties. The truth is that both parties postulate their independence and respect for the judiciary, but we must remember the background of this story. In 1980 the first organic law regulating this issue appeared, an organic law that was retouched in 1985 precisely by the PSOE and the government of Felipe González, with recourse from the People's Party, which lost in the Constitutional Court. But then came the People's Party and, with Aznar's government, also made the reform of Organic Law 2/2001, the famous one concerning the list of names. And the People's Party in its 2011 electoral programme also brought about the change of this regime and, although it took an absolute majority, it did not fulfil its promise and in 2013 made a new reform. Therefore, as you see, the interference of the People's Party and the Socialist Party in this matter is public and well-known and has a long way to go, which leads us in this legislature to have this happen up to twice. In just over a year, the Organic Law of the Judiciary will be amended twice. It seems that this is the fruit of chance. The explanatory statement of the law before us says that the change made does not allow for new appointments, but this change made is the fault or consequence of what the socialists did at the time, which also means that things must be placed in their proper place. But putting things in their proper place cannot sell this image of the perfect justice that was sold yesterday Citizens, because the objective reality is that this perfect justice that Mr Bal pointed out yesterday accumulated in 2021 ten convictions of the European Court of Human Rights and in the last twenty years up to sixty-two convictions; for example, for not respecting the right to a fair trial. Therefore, this image of legitimacy of the judiciary that was pointed out yesterday is not a success story either. I sincerely believe that this short cut that I have explained to you of changes in the judiciary is not a story to be proud of, and that it certainly affects the public service of justice that is given not by the people who are at the foot of the canyon in the judiciary, but rather the service of justice that is given to many citizens. An expired General Council of the Judiciary and an expired Constitutional Court at the end only show that this glass democracy has more cracks than virtues. The reality of this situation forces us to move the record. Undoubtedly, this is not the best reform that could be made of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, because it is the correction of the previous one and it is the correction of the previous one that had the previous one. We are convinced that something much better could be done. The current blocking situation requires, as I told you before, moving tabs and looking for solutions. For our part, there is going to be a solution and we are going to vote in favour that this change allows us to articulate a movement of cards that resolves this issue. But, as Mr Baldoví pointed out yesterday - I think very rightly - the fact is that in all these bodies there is an expiry date, but there is no expiry date in the posts relating to this Congress of Deputies or in the posts relating to the Senate. This change is therefore entirely legitimate. This change of law is made by people whose office, unlike the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court, is in force and therefore corresponds, applying the rule of law, that we approve this law and that we allow the institutional blockade that takes place in the State to have at least some way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u172	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, do not come so high that if it is not the judges who elect the judges, we are practically - which is what they come to say - in a dictatorship, because they can be targeted by their leaders of the Atlantic Alliance because there, in the United States, the president does appoint judges of the Supreme, but fortunately not here. Here neither the Government nor even Parliament elects judges, here Parliament confines itself to agreeing by a broad majority of each of the two Houses a general council which must control and decide the fates of judges, but in Spain neither the Government nor Parliament elects judges nor has ever done so, so they do not sow confusion. Another different thing - which is perhaps what they refer to - is that in those parliamentary consensuss to choose not the judges, but the advisers of the body that controls them, the law fraud and the introduction of people who are unsuitable for the purpose of running from behind - I do not know if that phrase sounds to them - the Supreme Court, but that is another issue. Perversion is not in the law, a thousand times more correct than the American, but in how you have applied it for decades; that is the problem. Nor is it true that you want to change the law, if not, you would have done so before, when you commanded; what you do not want is to stop defrauding the law, that is what you do not want, to stop defrauding the law, as you have been defrauding for decades. The law doesn't matter to you, it doesn't matter exactly what we're talking about here; what you want is to be able to continue defrauding, be it this law, be it next or any other law, as you've always done in your history. And it says the saying that made the law, made the trap, and in that equation between the law and the trap is in what you have shown special skill, and also weakness with the second part of the equation. It's a thousand three hundred days of blockade, a thousand three hundred days, no more or less, as we said yesterday. And it doesn't matter what we're talking about, because you come to bring up the same themes as ever. They have three star themes, three themes that are already exhausted. First of all, Venezuela, and I will remember that because today we have not talked about Venezuela. Isn't Guaidó, for example, the legitimate president of Venezuela? Because I haven't heard anything in almost a year. Isn't it a dictatorship anymore? Apparently not because, as the United States now buys oil, they have already removed it from the blacklist and, since then, there is neither Guaidó nor there is a dictatorship nor absolutely nothing; when we have spent years breakfasting, lunching and dinnering with the same barricade in Venezuela only to destroy our political party and, moreover, with the invaluable help of Mrs. Cospedal in those audios that we have just heard this week. It has been seen that everything was false and that behind was also his party, so they are so quiet. You can't keep fooling people, because you believe yourself whenever we don't have memory. Justice is not degraded by this amendment of law that we bring today, justice is degraded by its party. Then they talk about separatism. When have there been - that is another of the great battles - more upset and less understanding in our country? When you ruled, by repression and by not understanding that Spain is a plural and multilingual country. Every time you rule, Spain breaks, that is, when you rule, everything is chaos. If when you govern - and I have to say that, I have said it once - even I want to leave your Spain - not Spain, your Spain - and I am not independentist. [[Rumors]] And it's that living in this country when you rule is very unbearable, so you can't blame anyone absolutely for wanting to leave when you rule. [[Applauds]] And the spokesman of the People's Group comes to us again in this law - that we are talking about the Constitutional Court and those one thousand three hundred days of blockage of the General Council of the Judiciary - with ETA. There is no longer any ETA and they are putting him in with a shoemaker to excuse his vote against all the policies in favour of the social majorities of our country, of the families and of the companies, and now they have also used him to disrespect other victims whose executioners have enjoyed impunity until today, telling them that with other victims yes, but with them no justice will be done. The victims don't care at all, they don't care at all, they don't care at all, they don't care at all, only power, they get it with instability, with it 'the better, the worse for me - yours - benefit'; I don't know if you remember that phrase. Two days ago the 11-M Association denounced its partisan use of victims to go against other victims. [[Rumors]] Doesn't it really make you feel good to come here with this every day? They should be more modest. [[Rumors]] And do you know why you're so nervous that you don't stop talking, that even though you're talking here, you don't stop talking to your nerves? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u173	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u174	They are nervous because there are groups that support the laws of this government. That makes them very nervous because they have reached a point where they no longer know how to excuse their vote against all measures of progress. What fills you with impotence is not that Bildu is going to vote for a law that presents the government, as has passed many more that improve the lives of the people and justice of this country; what bothers you is that you have acted as the state party you claimed to be and that, of course, you have proved at the worst time in our country that you are not, as well as that it has been shown that any party is more a state party than you yourselves.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u175	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u176	I'm on my way. That's all you have and that's all that happens to you, that you can't cover in any way that we've always had with you a worse, more unstable country, filled with corruption, authoritarian and a weak government with the powerful and strong with those below. But they're running out of excuses.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u177	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u178	Stop stretching the gum because they have skipped all the seams and because it is time for them to stop breaking our country, to break Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u179	Thank you. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We start with the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Democratic Memory Bill. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa. Amendment 190. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 345 in favour, 37 in favour, 292 in favour and 14 in favour, 306 in favour, 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u181	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 27 against, 292 in favour and 14 in favour, 306 in favour, 13 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u182	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. Amendment 170. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 27 plus 1 telematics vote, 28; against, 263 plus 11 telematics votes, 274; abstentions, 43 plus 2 telematics votes, 45.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u183	President, I have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u184	All right, that's what it says. However, the vote has already taken place. I will answer the result: the amendment is rejected. We shall proceed to review the voting system for the next votes, please. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to hold a test vote, you do not have to vote, it is simply to check whether the seat concerned works. [[Pause]] It works very well. We shall continue with the votes. Ladies and gentlemen, other amendments tabled by the Euskal Herría Bildu Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 27 against, 294 votes in favour, 308 votes against, 12 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u185	They're rejected. Amendment 196 tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 in favour, 35 in favour, 295 in favour and 14 in favour, 309 in favour, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u186	It's rejected. Amendment 21 tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 346 votes in favour, 27 against, 253 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour, 264 abstentions, 52 votes in favour, 3 votes in favour, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u187	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendments 262 to 264, 280 and 281. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 38 against, 285 votes in favour, 299 votes against, 10 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u188	They're rejected. Amendment 265. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 447 votes in favour, 46 against, 285 votes in favour, 299 votes in favour, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u189	It's rejected. Amendment 266. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 37 against, 294 votes in favour, 308 votes in favour, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u190	It's rejected. Amendment 267. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 in favour, 31 against, 300 and 14 in favour, 314 in favour, 314 in favour, 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u191	It's rejected. Amendment 269. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 31 against, 294 votes in favour, 308 votes against, 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u192	It's rejected. Amendment 276. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 37 against, 294 votes in favour, 308 votes in favour, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u193	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 25 against, 294 votes in favour, 308 votes against, 14 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u194	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendments 229 and 231. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 447 in favour, 40 in favour, 285 in favour, 299 in favour, 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u195	They're rejected. Amendments 234 and 235. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 31 against, 294 votes in favour, 308 votes against, 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u196	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 in favour, 21 against, 294 in favour, 308 in favour, 18 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u197	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 26 against, 294 votes in favour, 308 votes against, 13 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u198	They're rejected. A full vote on the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 23 against, 297 votes in favour, 311 votes against, 13 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u199	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero and Mr Pagès i Massó. Amendment 336. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 346 votes in favour, 31 against, 291 votes in favour, 305 votes against, 10 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u200	It's rejected. Amendment 340. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 114 plus 4 telematics votes, 118; against, 216 plus 10 telematics votes, 226; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u201	It's rejected. The remainder of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero and Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 24 against, 296 votes in favour, 310 votes against, 13 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u202	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 73, 115 and 116. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 in favour, 29 against, 294 in favour, 308 in favour, 10 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u203	They're rejected. Amendments 74, 82, 89, 106, 107, 113 and 114. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 37 against, 293 votes in favour, 307 votes against, 307 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u204	They're rejected. Amendments 96 and 109. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 36 against, 294 votes in favour, 308 votes against, 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u205	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 in favour, 29 against, 294 in favour, 308 in favour, 10 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u206	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican parliamentary groups, Euskal Herria Bildu, Plural - Mr Pagès i Massó, Mr Boadella Esteve and Mr Rego Candaimil - and Mixto, Mrs Vehí Cantenys. Amendment 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 37, plus 1 telematics vote, 38; against, 265 plus 11 telematics votes, 276; abstentions, 31 plus 2 telematics votes, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u207	It's rejected. The remainder of the amendments tabled by the Republican parliamentary groups, Euskal Herria Bildu, Plural - Mr Pagès i Massó, Mr Boadella Esteve and Mr Rego Candaimil - and Mixto, Mrs Vehí Cantenys. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 347 in favour, 36 in favour, 295 in favour and 14 in favour, 309 in favour, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u208	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 349, 350, 355, 369 to 371, 374 to 376, 411, 432 and 437. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 97 plus 4 telematics votes, 101; against, 185 plus 7 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 51 plus 3 telematics votes, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u209	They're rejected. Amendments 351, 353, 356, 359 and 363. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 87 plus 4 telematics votes, 91; against, 196 plus 7 telematics votes, 203; abstentions, 50 plus 3 telematics votes, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u210	They're rejected. Amendments 364, 398, 405 to 409, 412, 414, 415, 439 and 440. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 137 plus 7 telematics votes, 144; against, 186 plus 7 telematics votes, 193; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u211	They're rejected. Amendments 365 and 441. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 14 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 88 plus 4 telematics votes, 92; against, 184 plus 7 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 60 plus 3 telematics votes, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u212	They're rejected. Amendments 372, 377, 378, 382 to 384, 386, 396, 397, 404, 416, 424, 435 and 438. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 146 plus 7 telematics votes, 153; against, 185 plus 7 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u213	They're rejected. Amendments 433 and 436. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 96 plus 4 telematics votes, 100; against, 235 plus 10 telematics votes, 245; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u214	They're rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 14 telematics votes, 346; 137 plus 7 telematics votes, 144; 193 plus 7 telematics votes, 200; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u215	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u216	Direct and read-only processing of legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending article 570 bis of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. Amendment to the whole of alternative text No. 1 submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 14 by-laws, 347; in favour, 12; against, 187 plus 7 by-laws, 194; abstentions, 134 plus 7 by-laws, 141.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u217	It's rejected. Amendment to all alternative text No 2 submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 50 plus 3 telematics votes, 53; against, 196 plus 7 telematics votes, 203; abstentions, 87 plus 4 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u218	It's rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text No. 3 submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group to the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 88 plus 7 telematics votes, 95; against, 195 plus 7 telematics votes, 202; abstentions, 50.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u219	It's rejected. Amendment to Rule 4 tabled by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 347; 178 plus 7 telematics votes, 185; 146 plus 7 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u220	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, from now on, for an hour and a half, the rest of the items on the agenda that will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting will be voted on by telematics. I should also like to inform you that this plenary session includes the discussion and adoption in direct and single reading of the Proposed Organic Law amending article 570 bis of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. In view of its organic nature, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, in breach of this provision, he announced that the votes would not take place before 18 o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u222	We continue with the validation or repeal of Royal Decree Law 11/2022 of 25 June, which adopts and extends certain measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, to address situations of social and economic vulnerability and to the economic and social recovery of the island of La Palma. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, as always, I would ask you, please, if you have to leave the Chamber, to do so quietly and quickly. [[Rumors.-Pause]] In order to present the royal decree law, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u223	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise for the second time to this rostrum today to request in this case the validation of the Royal Decree Law 11/2022; a validation that should be absolutely peaceful, since this Royal Decree Law is a rule of common sense to help all people, all citizens: the middle classes, the working classes, SMEs and businesses. We want to extend measures that have proved effective in dealing with the effects of the war, we want to take further measures in this effort that the Government is making to improve every day the response to the economic and social consequences that the war in Ukraine is causing and we also want to help the inhabitants of the island of La Palma - it is the last block of the decree law - until their lives and also their economic activities are normal. On 28 April he appeared to ask for the validation of the first phase of the recovery plan in response to the economic and social consequences of the war. At that time we wondered how long the war would last, how far Putin would be willing to go, and what impact that unrighteousness would have on our lives and our economy. Almost three months later, these questions are still in the air today and no one can yet answer them in true science. Meanwhile, some people, citizens of our country, have difficulty reaching the end of the month and see how the shopping basket is being costed, and some companies have become increasingly difficult to continue their economic activity. Therefore, from the government and from this Congress one cannot look elsewhere. The public authorities have an obligation to meet their needs and fulfil our obligations as public servants. Last Tuesday the President of the Government said that, although there are things that are going well and that work well in our country, of course, what the citizens are asking of us is that we focus on what is not so good and that we take steps to solve it; that is why this royal decree law, which is the second phase of the national plan to respond to the war in Ukraine, goes. We want to continue to lead aid to the middle classes, to the working classes and to companies in the face of an exceptional situation and we want to anticipate the new difficulties that will emerge in the coming months. It is therefore an example of a useful policy to return the social majority of our country, the businesses, the self-employed and the middle classes that have been threatened, security and certainty. Like vaccination, peace will come to Europe, but in the meantime we have a duty to continue to respond to that war and to do what is necessary for as long as is necessary to protect those who have the most difficulties. Since this Congress, at another time, in other crises, it has responded with austerity and we are responding with solidarity. Time is giving us reason. We are demonstrating that workers, businesses, self-employed and middle classes now need public support and support from all of us and from all of us. The solutions that we have been implementing are putting us in a better position to tackle this new stage of uncertainty: we maintain a stable growth of gross domestic product around 4%, only one point below 2021; the companies of IBEX 35 obtained benefits last year of EUR 58 billion, i.e. 33% more than in the previous year; we have more social security affiliates than ever before, 20.3 million people are now contributing to social security; we are creating quality jobs thanks to the labour reform that we approved - you too - with almost 45% of indefinite contracts in July; let alone tourism, which is already reaching pre-pandemic levels. These data show that we have a solid basis to start building and that we have the confidence of investors, businesses, institutions and citizens all over the world. They also help, of course, the nearly €70 billion that will reach Spain and whose disbursement by the European Commission is already taking place. We are an example of managing and implementing European funds. So let us be realistic, let us be cautious, but let us not be defeatists. We do not know how long this situation will last, but we do know that by validating this royal decree law today we are going to go deeper into the prescriptions of protection and containment of inflation that we are already applying and that are yielding results. The royal decree law has sixty pages of measures that have already allowed, according to our estimate, to contain inflation by 3.5 points. It is true that we have very high inflation and we are dedicated day by day to working to contain that inflation. The Royal Decree has six areas in which work is carried out: first, energy; second, displacement; third, housing; fourth, social protection; fifth, enterprises and workers in particularly affected economic sectors; and, sixth, the island of La Palma. In terms of energy, we are working to contain the rise in the bill for light, butane candy and natural gas. As far as the bill for light is concerned, the Royal Decree-Law again lowers VAT by 5%, i.e. the lowest rate in the whole of the European Union. In addition, all the tax reductions that we have already made on the bill for light are added to this VAT reduction, which represents approximately 80% reduction in the taxes on the bill for light in Spain. With this and with the Iberian exception - after the negotiation that the president led at the European Council - a middle-class household can pay 64 euros a month instead of 91 euros a month, which means at the end of the year a savings of about 400 euros. And for households with less income, which are almost 2 million in all of Spain, we extend the extension of the electric social bonus with discounts of up to 70%. The price of butane candy is also frozen at 19.55 euros and, as a result, consumers will be able to save 2 million euros by the end of the year. We also act on the gas bill with measures already approved, which are maintained in this decree and which are leading to savings for Spanish families of between 70 and 570 euros per year. In this way, the price of gas in Spain, together with Portugal, is the lowest in the whole of the European Union. We maintain in the decree law the prohibition of cutting off the supply of electricity, water or 'gas in case of non-payment and we also extend the prescribed limitation to the fallen profits of the sky for the companies that are benefiting. In the second block of travel aid we are taking action in the face of rising petrol prices. We keep the discount of 20 cents per litre of gasoline in our country. We now also incorporate in this decree the 30% discount on transport allowances when the means are autonomous and 50% in Renfe, which, as you know, the president announced will be extended to 100% in the debate of the state of the nation. [[applause]] The third block is housing. Until the end of the year the 2 % limitation in the rent price update is maintained and evictions and launches are also suspended, so that the social services will have six months to look for definitive solutions. The fourth block is that of social protection, in order to guarantee sufficient income to those who have less. This extends until 31 December the 15% increase in minimum living income and also increases the amount of non-contributory retirement or disability pensions by 15%. In addition, we have included as a novelty a bonus of 200 euros for the unemployed, workers and self-employed with incomes of less than 14,000 euros per year. We estimate that 2.7 million people will be able to enjoy this aid that will undoubtedly be an oxygen balloon for all of them. The fifth block is measures for businesses and workers in particularly affected economic sectors. We postpone the payment of social security contributions, maintain it and extend it, and also approve direct aid per worker in companies in the intensive gas industry. In addition, for farmers, farmers and fishermen we increase aid for the purchase of agricultural insurance by EUR 60 million, which will benefit especially the youngest, who will receive a grant in the premium of almost 65%. Companies receiving this type of aid will still not be able to make redundancies - it is also important to remember - because we think it is fair that public money cannot be used to destroy jobs. The last block is the measures for La Palma, which you know because you have already passed through this House on numerous occasions. This Royal Decree-Law maintains the measures to support the reconstruction of the island of La Palma that are already in force, for example with the ERTE and the cessation of activity benefit for self-employed people that is so successful, postponements and moratoriums in payment of quotas and other aid for those affected. The Government continues to be involved in the reconstruction of the island of La Palma and these measures constitute a public safety net for people who have suffered and who are having such a terrible impact on their lives or on their economies. Ladies and gentlemen, I end by pointing out that this royal decree is one more step on the road that the Government is taking to meet the needs of the social majority of our country, the middle classes and the workers. President Sánchez has already announced the following steps along this path that we are already undertaking to protect and make it sustainable. There will be a tax on the extraordinary profits of large energy companies, which plans to raise around EUR 2 billion a year and also an exceptional and temporary tax on financial institutions, whose collection will be around EUR 1 500 million a year. We will soon present an improved CAP to boost the Spanish countryside and we will grant a complementary grant of 100 euros for all students who are already beneficiaries of the grant and who have difficulties due to the shortage of life. It adds and continues; the Government adds and continues to take steps to transform and modernize our country, to emerge from this crisis with a more strengthened, stronger welfare State, with a digitalized and sustainable production system. Ladies and gentlemen, we already know that the coming months will be complex if the war in Ukraine does not end. It is time to seek consensus, to agree on the essentials, which is to help our fellow citizens, which is what we all voted for in this Chamber. It is time to join the collective effort. Let us overcome the noise that sometimes transforms Spanish politics into something unintelligible and think about the general interest, in the interest of all Spaniards and all citizens on foot. The will of covenant, ladies and gentlemen, is demonstrated by pacting, and the will to dialogue, by dialogue, not with hollow statements - often grandiose - that seek to give an image that is not real. Support the validation of this royal decree law, ladies and gentlemen, help the Spaniards. Defending the interests of themselves or at times of the powerful is an option, but of course it is not the option of this Government. This Government works every day for the social majority, the middle classes and the working classes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u225	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the validation of this royal decree because it contains determinations that will help to alleviate the difficulties arising from the crisis. This Royal Decree partially amends Article 6 of Royal Decree Law 6/2022, which referred to the procedure for determining environmental status for renewable energy projects. We, in the previous debate, that of the Royal Decree Law 6/2022, were in favour of deleting this article because it removes basic elements of environmental assessment, but, in view of its persistence, we have managed to introduce important corrections by prior negotiation so that the procedure will observe some minimums and comply with the legislation. Thus, thanks to the agreement with Teruel Existe, the establishment of facilities hosted by this procedure can only be done in areas of low sensitivity, according to the environmental zoning of the ministry, when previously also included those of moderate. The projects will now be announced in the OEB, will be subject to a period of public exposure and will be able to receive environmental claims or observations from the public to be considered by the Administration. Despite this, it is essential that the processing of the royal decree as a bill should not be delayed and that it should include public participation in the environmental body and prior to the issuance of the report through allegations in the proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u227	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, we are the worst economy in the European Union; of the great economies of the European Union, we are the only one that has not recovered the pre-pandemic levels, but it is that we did not recover them last year, we are not going to recover them this year, we are not going to recover the one that comes and is telling us the European Union that we will see if we do it in 2024. After Cyprus and Slovenia, we are the country of the European Union that has cut its growth prospects for 2023 the most. The CPI is above the EU average. Everyone has the situation in Ukraine, everyone has passed a pandemic, exactly like us. What have we got worse? Well, what we have worst is the government, it's obvious, because you're like the bad managers of companies that just go out and ask for money. It's the only thing they know how to do. They have no more ingenuity in putting measures than putting their hands into the portfolio of Spanish and companies. It's just that a bad manager, instead of first wondering if something's not working right, if there's any procedure that can be changed, if there's any problem in the operations, or if there's any hole that escapes the money, says: No, listen, give me more. That's all his management skills and that's how it goes. You do not take action, put patches, which is the only thing you know how to do, and do propaganda, because to see if you now believe someone who we are going to get out of this situation with a check of 200 euros, with a scholarship of 100 euros or, much worse, putting a tax on financial institutions than the only thing you are going to get is that the credit does not flow. This will go'very well' to companies that want to invest and to Spaniards who want to improve the economy. Indeed, Minister, it is absolutely inexplicable. The last thing I want to say to you is that this is about dialogue, indeed; but you do not seek dialogue, but you come with a plan and say: If you want it, you take it and, if not, you are against Spain. This is not going to put labels, this is going to sit the parties down to make a country plan, and that's the only thing this government isn't doing. So they bring things like this, which are useless. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u228	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u229	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree is insufficient for families residing in the Canary Islands. It has good measures, yes, but it is totally insufficient, it will not have any impact on the Canary economies. At the risk of being repetitive in the obvious, we are islands, we do not have trains, we do not have VAT. Do you know where they can help? How the goods arrive to us, how the shopping basket is being costed because the freight is rising by 800 % - they have stabilized, but by 500 % - and this, which sounds so far away, has a direct impact on the shopping basket of the citizens. I give you figures: almost 38% of the Canarian population is at risk of social exclusion; almost 12% of the Canarian families cannot eat meat or 'fishing' not once a week; the Canarian livestock are literally dying, they are sending to the slaughterhouse to the cattle because they cannot pay for the goods that arrive by boat. Review the reference prices, because the subsidies are not coming. In this regard, no one can oppose a family that needs it receiving 200 euros - of course not - and a student receiving 100 euros more - of course not - but what will happen on 1 January when all these measures fall on 31 December? What's going to happen? We are public servants, we are asked for long-term measures, not only in the short term to get headlines. We have a vital minimum income, we have supported it, we have improved it, it only reaches 8% of the Canaries. Gentlemen of the Government, they talk a lot about dialogue, but they don't practice it. Here you have two canarian deputies willing to speak, are you willing to listen? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u231	Thank you, President. Minister, most of the measures contained in the decree are positive, but there is one that is at least questionable, and that is where I wanted to focus, which is the 20 cents per litre subsidy. We understand that we had to act urgently, in shock, in the face of the rise in those fuel prices that strongly affected inflation, but that was already in April. Maintaining this measure without making alternative strategic plans seems wrong to us. First of all, it is a retrogressive measure, since it subsidizes just like those who have a small car, which consumes little, it could be 5 liters to the 100 kilometers, that to those who have a cochazo, which can consume twice as much, 10 liters to the 100 kilometers. Secondly, it is also a measure which, if it is not accompanied by a limitation on the price of fuel, is useless in the medium term, and we are already seeing it, because fuel prices have continued to rise; since this royal decree was implemented the diesel has been charged an average of 3.5 cents per litre. And finally, thirdly, it is a measure that persists in a model of mobility that must change completely. In other words, let us think that fuel is not rising because of the post-pandemic effects, it is not rising because of the effect of Russia's war against Ukraine, but it is rising because it has reached the peak of oil. The sooner we assume this, the sooner we can plan for fair solutions, which will have a huge effect on mobility. If this model is not changed and if mobility is not strategically oriented towards another direction, what is going to happen is that the people of cars from 10 liters to 100 kilometers will cost more money, but they will be able to continue filling the deposit; the one from 5 liters to 100 kilometers is the one who will start to notice it. And these are the bad results of not planning...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u232	Mr. Botran, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u233	...an energy transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u235	Good afternoon, aratsalde on. This royal decree has included a number of measures that we had requested of the Government and that, in addition, we made public nothing more approve and give our vote in favour of the first anti-crisis decree in March. The measures proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu have incorporated into the Royal Decree-Law the public fund for local entities for the reduction of public transport charges and to encourage their use; the 15% increase in pensions for retirement and non-contributory disability, a good news, which is very important for the most vulnerable and affects the lowest pensions; discounts have been incorporated into the social bonus for vulnerable consumers; aids to transporters so that they can pass on to the contracting companies the increases in the price of fuels; in the agricultural field, there are increases in production costs resulting from international diesel as countervailable expenditure in the aids of Article 34 of the Royal Decree-Law; the prohibition of dismissals for productive or economic reasons arising from the war in those companies which have received aid; and the extension of the prohibition of cuts in supplies. In short, the actual decree law has substantially improved over the previous one thanks to these and also other measures that have been included, but we have to say that this remains insufficient, although of course we are going to vote in favour. It is still insufficient because structural measures, which are really going to affect changing conditions so that social injustices do not get worse, are not yet being adopted. When we talk about structural measures, we talk about setting energy prices, setting the maximum limit on electricity prices and carrying out a thorough audit of the energy market to make it possible to know the real cost of generating each energy source. What we're talking about is intervening on the market at once. This decree also includes the measure of the new reduction of VAT on light. It is well known that successive VAT reductions have failed to reduce the electricity bill. We believe that we should look at the key to the issue, to what they officially call the electric market, but that it is actually an oligopoly dominated by four large companies. Among them stands out Iberdrola, which has not only obtained the largest dividend in its history, with 4 billion euros, but also will increase the dividends to its shareholders; it is the company whose president, Sánchez Galán, called us fools to a large part of the citizenry. He also stressed, with regard to this measure, that it is the State that assumes this discount and not the electric ones; and, moreover, it contains the negative side that it will benefit in the same way to the high-luxury housing as to the mini-department whose rent or mortgage pays hardly anyone of minimum income, and this is profoundly unfair. As unfair and deploring it is that the Supreme Court in these days has annulled convictions for altering prices, in addition to 20 million euros to Repsol and 10 million to Cepsa, for expiration. That's what he said. Anyone who sees me is not going to have the same luck either with his traffic tickets or with his payments to the Treasury, we're all sure of it. Another example of the impunity in which economic elites move and enjoy. It's over now. I'm going to repeat what I said yesterday from this rostrum. The Government must intervene in prices and put a stop to electricity and fuels; it must apply permanent taxes to large companies, electricity and oil companies; and it must nationalize the electricity which the People's Party and PSOE had previously privatized. This is the right way, because if structural measures are not taken, the markets will continue to determine how we have to live. Because if politics doesn't rule over the economy, it's the economy that decides politics. By responsibility, as we did in the first decree, and by people, we will vote in favour of this new royal decree. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u237	Thank you, President. Today we are once again being asked to support this decree, always a posteriori, because the truth, Minister, is that they have not counted on this parliamentary group. He will tell me that we had the decree, yes, less than 48 hours after its approval; therefore, with a zero margin of manoeuvre. But they also sent us a decree that was incomplete, there were only a few measures that did not even have the deadlines and no new measures were included. Why did you bring an incomplete decree? Because the deadline for the measures was running out, and they didn't even agree with their government partners? At least this group has not been informed with due diligence, when we have also been supporting each and every step that your Government has taken. It seems that what is important to us for you is a mere process. They then talk to us - and today too - about dialogue, consensus and agreement, but in the end they are somewhat hollow words that of course undermine confidence in agreements that were signed as a result of the investiture. It's not very encouraging to work this way. Why do they always wait for the expiry limit of previous measures? The truth is that there were no facts that made them predict that the situation would change, quite the contrary, and I wish it would have changed. In addition, we believe that they are due more to improvisation than to planning, and to show a button: the inclusion of a 5% VAT reduction that they did not contemplate a week earlier, and they made it known or manifested it in the Senate. And on Tuesday, in the debate of the state of the nation, we were announced a measure contained in this decree that will be modified when it has not even yet been validated: the bonus of one hundred percent of the allowances for various travel titles. Short-term measures which we consider necessary and measures which can hardly be said to be no. We are not against short-term measures, but we believe that, as Europe says, they must be more focused, they must be more selective, more targeted and, of course, aimed at reducing consumption and also containing demand. In addition, they should be accompanied by structural measures on the supply side to boost markets and also assess the effect of the standardisation of certain expansionary monetary policies. Once again, the parliamentary groups have to position ourselves under the whole or nothing disjunctive before basically an extension of measures that we had already adopted before and on which we have not even been given the opportunity to improve or reformulate, because the processing as a draft law of the first validated decree in this matter has been kidnapped, because the submission of amendments has been postponed week after week. He has no absolute majority, our spokesman told him, but they act as if they had it, and then they want to take responsibility for whether or not these measures are adopted in the parliamentary groups, as if you had nothing to do with them. As far as measures are concerned, we share them. In fact, most of them are an extension of those that we approved in March, but the truth - and we must also say this - is that most of them are not effective in reducing inflation, precisely because they encourage consumption, which fuels price growth at times, in addition to high demand, except for those relating to the bonus of transport subsidies, because we understand that they encourage the use of public transport and lower consumption. A measure which, however, you have converted, with Tuesday's announcement, into an asymmetric and partial aid, because it will benefit certain people in different percentages, but not on the basis of income, necessity or other objective criteria, but on the basis of who has the competence or the type of transport available to them. This is true, once again, because they have not spoken to either the autonomous communities or the groups, and because they do not analyse the consequences of adopting certain measures. Why does a person who takes a subway or a bus - who does not have a train - have to pay a percentage of the usual charge and the person who takes certain trains from nearby nothing? It was said yesterday by our spokesman: what users are asking is that the service works, because there is nothing worth a free subscription if you do not have services, which is what is happening, for example, in Renfe Nearby Bilbao-Donostia. In this decree, as in the previous one, there are certain measures that are also managed by the outside administrations, and they do not speak to them either. I am talking about transport aid and the 20 cent fuel subsidy; amounts that have already been advanced and paid to the beneficiaries for the foral estates and which their Government has not yet reinstated, although already in this decree tell us how it is going to be carried out. The truth is that they could have advanced that money, as the Treasury has done, to the State Treasury, because the outlaws are assuming a financial risk because they assume payment with their financial capabilities. But it is that, moreover, then the State Treasury supervises us, checks whether we have done it right or wrong and, well, the foreign estates will already charge one day, because at no time is said the deadline. This is not baladi, because only in Gipuzkoa have paid 6 million for transport aid and in advance bonus to the gas stations the cold of 43 million until May - missing June -, all with our financial capacity. This is the same with the new aid to the measure of the 200 euros, which has not been talked about or agreed with the outside institutions and, for the time being, while in the State it can be requested, in the outside territories we are trying to adapt the system to your request, and neither is there any advance amount on the part of your Government. We cannot, of course, put at risk the credibility of our estates for their decisions and for the management of aid that has not been agreed, when if by something are characterized the outside administrations is by professional management and close to the citizenry. With regard to intensive gas aid, a number of new CNAEs are being collected, but they are still leaving out others which are also intensive gas, and we do not understand that the consideration of aid for certain CNAEs is being carried out without taking into account energy consumption, because it means that companies which do not belong to such CNAEs as intensive gas are to be included and will therefore receive that aid. We believe that this is effective, not effective. In short, we believe that the opportunity has been lost to correct the errors detected, to fine tune in the design, application and implementation of measures. Our vote is going to be a yes, a yes for people, a yes for society, a yes for companies, a yes for industry, a yes to not harm them, a yes to alleviate the negative effects of the crisis, but their causes are not addressed. A yes but also telling the truth, because we believe that what we validate today is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow as long as it does not improve the situation, because the truth is that everything points to a worsening of the situation in autumn, with possible embargoes on Russian gas and oil that would make it necessary to take new measures or even to review those already adopted. In short, a somewhat desolating yes because today, even if this decree is validated and then treated as a bill, at least I have already lost hope that we can improve it, because once again it will be locked in a drawer. Mr. Bel said in the previous decree that we were here to improve the lives of citizens. I agree, but for that, Mr Bel, we believe that we need a government with more empathy for the groups to let us contribute and want to really dialogue and negotiate. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u238	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u239	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bolaños, it would be most comfortable for me to come up here and tell you that this royal decree-law on measures to combat the crisis is a magnificent job, which will solve all the problems of citizenship caused by inflation, but it would be irresponsible for me because I would not be telling the Spanish the truth. It is true that in this royal decree there are measures that we consider positive, even measures that we have been demanding for a long time, but they are late, come badly and are accompanied - as you always do - by other measures that are infumable and others that are not compensatory. I mean, you open the joke, you open the wallet, but you don't close the expense faucet on the other hand. I liked the simile the president made yesterday about the healer's thesis and the specialist doctor, so I'm going to continue with it. Look, diagnosis of the situation, diagnosis of the patient: inflation. What is inflation? A silent tax, a tax without legislation. Inflation is a drama, because it is not only that prices rise and cost us everything more, no, it is that inflation is also impoverishment. Inflation is like slug for wood: we eat our incomes and our savings little by little. The June inflation figure was confirmed yesterday at 10.2%, the highest rate since April 1985. With yesterday's data from the INE in hand I assure you that inflation has reached the degree of metastasis in our economy, it has permeated everything. Not only does heating, light or water rise 35 %, or transport 20 %, is that in one year the bread has risen by 18 % - this is the table of the INE -, the veal by 14 %, the chicken by 14 %, the eggs by 24 %, the milk by 20 % and the fruit by 37 %. [[shows a document]] I'm still with the simile. After the diagnosis of the patient we need a plan for the cure, and in this I will give reason to the president when he said that against inflation there are no magic solutions. We know that national governments have little room to curb a widespread price escalation in an international context but there is a plan, a clear plan, which is coordination and determination. Coordination between governments and central banks - that escapes our legislative powers - and, of course, coordination within its own government. In the face of a crisis of such magnitude, if not coordination, at least dialogue with the opposition. Who did you talk to, Mr. Bolaños? Because he hasn't had a dialogue with Citizens, but I see he hasn't had a dialogue with his partners either. Identification and coordination. Determination because courageous measures must be taken and what must be done without fear of losing votes. You know the opposition's proposals, at least those of Citizens. They have had our proposals and solutions for months; I have given them to you myself. However, today we have neither a coordinated plan nor a specific plan; we have Sánchez's plan, a short-term plan, adopting measures every quarter that are not being used to contain prices. Even you yourselves have realized. One example of this extreme short-sightedness, Mr Bolaños, is that all the measures proposed and adopted further fuel inflation. Why? Because their measures increase aggregate spending, exceeding our economy's ability to produce goods and services. And what's going on? That if spending increases, there is little supply, prices increase, inflation increases. I was saying a while ago that this is a short-term plan because in March we passed a royal decree and today we are going to validate another. We will validate it with measures that have already become obsolete, since the president himself came Tuesday to amend this royal decree. When will it be next, Mr. Bolaños? What will we do if the war continues for longer or inflation in general, as all reports point out, does not end or fail to stop in the coming months? You said: add up and go on. And I say to him, yes, go on and on. Do you know what's gonna happen? That there will come a time when this government will not be able to maneuver and will only be able to surrender to the evidence and, then, either they will have to let inflation devour the economy of Spanish families and companies, or they will have to apply painful cuts, and this is what makes them most nervous, because here appears the ghost of Zapatero. [[Applauds]] I'm sorry to tell you that your plan doesn't help to cure the sick, it only supports a political project and its parliamentary majorities. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us be careful about all this or we will send millions of Spaniards to poverty and dependence on a state that will not be able to collect everything it has to subsidize. Because, of course, all this has to be paid, and it is paid by raising taxes or reducing spending, and it will not be enough for us with the excess collection that Hacienda is getting thanks to inflation. We cannot do this without a clear commitment on the part of all. We are all going to have to put on our side a great income pact that includes all economic actors, an income pact that, although it does not remove the disease, slows down its progress and slows down the inflationary spiral in which we are engaged; an income pact for a certain time where we all give up part - workers, officials, businesses, pensioners - and to which, of course, the State must also join. You are asking for efforts from families and workers, but you continue to say that pensions are going to be revalued with the CPI; you are asking for efforts from companies, but we have not yet seen a measure of containment of unproductive and inefficient spending. What sacrifices are you making to have a minimum of moral authority and ask the Spaniards to adjust their belts?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u240	Mrs. Muñoz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u241	I'm on my way, President. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, also with the words of the President: against inflation we will go for all. I tell you that if you really want to go for all and be brave, you will agree to negotiate with the opposition and you will be able to count on us and the courage of this parliamentary group and what we represent Citizens, who are the only ones who speak clearly to the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u243	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, once again they bring us a decree of measures which, in our view, may include some necessary and positive measures, but which are altogether clearly insufficient. We have already checked with the previous decree. Necessary measures because in an emergency situation it is necessary to support sectors that are having a really bad time - such as fisheries, agriculture, transport, etc. - but insufficient because you refuse to go to the root of the problems already undertaking structural reforms, especially in the energy market and particularly in the electricity market. Without these structural reforms, it is clear that there will not be a solution in the short or medium term and, of course, there will not be a definitive solution. The regulation of the electricity system, designed for the greater profit of a few large companies, must be changed in order to put it at the service of the social majority and social and economic development; the marginalist market must be eliminated; public energy companies must be nationalised or set up. In our case, we claim a Galician electric tariff as a country that produces excess electricity, and withdraw charges and tolls that are not directly related to the production or distribution of electricity from the electricity bill. They do not even adopt solutions that, without being structural, are absolutely necessary, such as the price of electricity and fuels in the final market. Do not take the price of gas in the wholesale market and then compensate the gas companies for it. We already know that it does not produce results, the example is in sight: not only did they not achieve their goal, but it continued to rise. As I say, to tackle it in the final market at the expense of the scandalous results of energy companies. If you can put a stop to the price of butane candy, why can't you put electricity or fuels? Moreover, logically, we must act on the path of taxation. They announced to us, when this decree was passed, a tax on the extraordinary profits of the electricians. Before yesterday, the President of the Government also announced the extraordinary benefits of the bank. We do not know which are the ordinary ones and which are the extraordinary ones, this creates many doubts about how you will apply it. In any case, these taxes are necessary within the framework of a more redistributive tax policy. I certainly have many aspects left, but I would like to refer to one that we understand to be negative in order to justify, moreover, that the Galego Nationalist Block is going to abstain. You, in the previous decree, included a change in the processing of clearly regressive wind farms that leaves the affected people helpless.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u244	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u245	Finished. They undertook to modify it and did so, but only partially for medium-level environmental areas, without taking into account other aspects such as, for example, the property or economic impacts of these parks. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u246	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u247	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree and its processing as a bill. We did it in the previous royal decree law. We are a responsible political force, which we usually make commitments when they are needed, and although that was a complicated time and there were other political formations that came up with a profile, we voted in favour. If we agree with the Government some modifications, some enlargements in some CNAE that have been reflected in this royal decree new law. Therefore, sectors such as that of the ceramic industry, CNAE 234, essentially popular ceramics, will have the intensive gas aids that they did not have in the other royal decree law, and that will be thanks to the contribution of the Democratic Party. There are still some outstanding issues, and the Minister and the Government know that. For example, we understand that another sector consisting essentially of small and medium-sized enterprises, such as the ceramic industry, is the self-school sector. The self-school sector, which is highly capillary in terms of small and medium-sized enterprises, has suffered the rise in fuel prices as has the transport sector. We will therefore continue to fight so that these companies can also count on this aid. Having said that, I would like to make some reference to what we have experienced in recent days, although you, Minister, know what our situation and position is. You come here and with a certain degree of improvisation, which is what gives us some concern, you ask us to validate a real decree law - which we are going to validate - with measures that the president left out before his validation yesterday, measures that, as some other spokesman has told you, are absolutely asymmetrical and, at best, unfaithful with the other administrations that manage public transport in the Spanish State. You talk about free public transport and say that we are going to have a 50% bonus for public transport by rail and a 30% bonus for those transports that run the autonomous communities and the municipalities. All right, they include it in the royal decree law, but now they change their minds and, before they validate it, they say that the bonus will be 100% for public transport by rail. They forget the rest and say that the rest will already be the responsibility of the autonomous communities. You know that this is not a receipt, beyond disloyalty with the autonomous communities themselves or local corporations. What do we tell those people who only have the capacity to use public road transport? That they're not getting the bonus? What do we say to those who, being able to use public road transport, can also use public rail transport? That they move their demand to the railway, that they have services of absolutely collapsed proximity? Are they going to continue to collapse? How is this asymmetry left to all those companies - some small and medium-sized companies - that are managing public transport lines by road? Therefore, if you intend to validate a new royal decree on this matter, you will have to seek and work the majorities in the parliamentary arc. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u248	Thank you, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u249	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We discussed a real law decree dense and with various measures. The summary we make is as follows: it seems to us short, with some interesting measure and that goes in the right line, but insufficient, as some spokesman has said before me. And, of course, this is due either because they are either a little raccoon, and money is not lacking, or because this royal decree was passed before the president gave a new steering wheel to his strategy and returned to being left-wing and going against the powerful. [[The lady]] He said that for lack of money it is not because, two weeks after passing this royal decree, they approved in the Council of Ministers an extraordinary credit of 1 billion euros to finance military expenditure in a budgetary amendment that does not need to be validated by the Legislature. How dare they pass a royal decree law to tackle situations of economic and social vulnerability and seven days later allocate an additional 1 billion euros to war! And while it is scandalous that this amount of public resources can be dealt with without any kind of control, it is a common practice that has been used on various forms and occasions by the PP governments and now by the PSOE and the United Podemos. This practice is not new, since it is customary for the various governments of the Spanish State to increase the allocation allocated to the Ministry of Defence throughout the budget year. Thus, through amounts from the contingency fund and extraordinary credits, the Ministry of Defence increased its budget by almost 850 million euros in 2020 or 1440 million euros in 2021. By this year 2022, the various reports published by Hacienda tell us that until 31 May the budget of the ministry of Margarita Robles had already increased by 1134 million euros. During the debate on the state of the nation - of its nation - they have announced several measures in order to collect more and expand the social shield, measures that, at the stroke of title, may seem good and even brave to us, but that, once studied, it seems to us that they are more a marketing product of the mill of the Moncloa than an ambitious plan of truth. They tell us about the free public transport, including rolling stock, without concrete, and yesterday the Minister of Transport told us the following: we will talk with the autonomies and we will explain it to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and minister, siesta is the star measure, we have a problem. It seems to us that both the Barcelona Assembly and the entire metropolitan area will have real problems in assuming it. We will always be in favour of measures that favour public transport, but making the ticket free seems to us to be a populist point. What is needed is that transport is useful for citizens, that there are structural measures and that all investments in the railway network are implemented. It also requires the transfer of management to the Generalitat and the impetus of the Mediterranean Corridor. All this is what it takes. [[Applauds]] They also tell us about a temporary two-year tax on banking due to the exponential increase in profits and the rise in interest rates and the euribor, which affects thousands of families. Be brave and be a permanent, not a temporary, tax on banking, as long as its profits are extraordinary. This is a redistributive measure and the other is temporary makeup. We also miss a tax on the great fortunes that we have proposed many times. Dare, minister, for there is a majority in this House to impose it. Why don't you want to do it? Or measures against fiscal dumping in Madrid, that tax haven right in the middle of the Spanish state. The Community of Madrid is a machine that centrifuges and absorbs resources from all over the territory, creates independenceists thousands and empty Spain. Why don't you dare? Or don't they have an alternative project for Isabel Díaz Ayuso? As for applying a tax on the profits of large energy groups, we will wait to see how Tuesday's announcement of the application of this tax in January 2023 takes shape. And I ask you: that this tax be paid, indeed, by the big electricity companies and that it does not impact, once again, on the bill of the families that are suffering the most. [[Applauds]] Other measures that we miss and have raised - I am finishing - are: the exceptional increase in retirement pensions and also the contributions in line with the actual increase in the CPI; the actual prohibition of direct or indirect dismissals related to the economic crisis, the pandemic or war; and the obligation of wage revaluation according to the CPI to avoid the loss of purchasing power of workers by inflation. They already see exceptional measures in exceptional situations. If you are brave, we will meet; if the measures you take are pure marketing, you will not have our votes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u251	Good afternoon. In recent years, especially in these weeks, in the face of a heat wave that claims that we do not have another planet and that we cannot inhabit another place we think a lot about the word certainty. This Government must give certainty and I do not think of a greater responsibility than to say that the State is for what is expected of it: to guarantee material conditions worthy of life and to offer security, because security is to know that they have equal access to health, education or public services. We came from a painful crisis, because with the pandemic we lost a lot - we lost loved ones and lost projects - and, when we started to get out of it, the crisis generated by Putin's war in Ukraine again gives a feeling of weather. That is why it is so important - and I want to focus on this because my group has fallen apart - that all the measures of the social shield adopted in March be extended until 31 December. In addition, we have negotiated new measures that are incorporated into this royal decree because we wanted it to be as ambitious as possible. All our efforts have been there, and certainly, although more can be done, we know that all new measures incorporated are indispensable. Thus, the 30% reduction in the price of public transport allowances between September and December is incorporated, because a socially and environmentally just transition involves ensuring access to public services and promoting another way of travelling than by spilling each territory, connecting it and lowering the pollution rates at the same time. That is to say, the proposal of the United Nations We can consist of leaving that cost of subscription at 10 euros as, on the other hand, countries like Germany have made, but we have also seen this week the announcement of an important bet for accessibility to the vicinity, the most necessary transport in our day-to-day, and I say this as an Asturian. Because there are two ways: that of cutting public transport frequencies, a very great idea of Mrs Ayuso in times when we must remain vigilant with the COVID - and here the effects are seen when using that transport on a daily basis because when you go hiking with your fellow Members that day you may not notice the reduction of frequencies, so tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, to his colleagues in Madrid, because the metro is to use it on a daily basis and not to go hiking - or to strengthen access and encourage the use of public transport with quality services. [[applause]] We are well aware that there is still a task ahead and do not doubt that we will continue to fight it. Families with incomes below the interprofessional minimum wage will have a support of 200 euros per month, which we already proposed in March, and the demonstration that the insistence bears fruit is precisely that it is incorporated in this royal decree. In the same vein, there is an extraordinary increase in retirement pensions and poor non-contributory calls by 15%. Years ago we were saying, with the People's Party government, that our widows had to choose between eating fish or paying for the light a month. I remember this phrase from the second vice president when we were working on the proposals for these ill-called non-contributory pensions, because women have contributed a lot to the whole citizenship throughout their lives, since, above all, it is women who have them. This measure is of pure justice and demonstrates the commitment of this coalition government to the maximum to have lives worthy of being lived, as Minister Irene Montero always says. Moreover, this royal decree speaks of the coming into force of a tax on electricity next January, and this is reaffirmed after the debate on the state of the nation this week, because it has been understood and assumed that in this crisis it is necessary that those who most have - the oligopoly of electricity and the large financial institutions - contribute a little more. It is not goodness, but common sense and also common sense. We maintain the measures to increase minimum income by 15%, the limitation of rent increases by 2%, the guarantee of basic supplies to vulnerable consumers, preventing their electricity, water or gas from being cut off for economic reasons, the ban on redundancies by state aid companies - they will not be able to use the increase in energy costs as an excuse to fire workers - and also the fuel subsidy and aid to the primary sector. We are aware that much remains to be done - and this debate has also been said - and we have not ceased to be engaged since we entered the Government. [[Rumors]] Certainties are urgent and this coalition government has to be brave, because the opposite is the connivance with the sense of helplessness of a citizen who is tired and tired of feeling that there is only noise and discussion here, although noise right now, if I may, President, there is.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u252	Wait a minute, you're absolutely right. Can you keep quiet or at least tone down the conversations, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u253	Thank you, President. Every measure achieved is much debate and perseverance and every measure achieved is a real and tangible improvement in people's lives, which is what we are for. If it takes something that some consider noise to reach them, I prefer it and our group will continue to do so, because the opposite is silence, and silence is what we have broken every time we have joined our neighbors, friends and workmates to claim rights. It weighs every minute of silence because every minute of silence means suffering. Certainties, on the other hand, dream and create a rhythm that is what we need not only to overcome this situation, but to bring the answers to the country that we will be in ten years. We are deciding now, because it is true that we cannot live anywhere else, but we can live lives worthy of being lived. We must give certainty to our people and that is why we continue. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u254	Thank you. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u255	Thank you, President. Minister, even if you don't believe it, I agree with you on one point and it is that our main task is to protect the Spaniards, but, now, from what and from whom should we protect them? And here's the hue: the loss of purchasing power? Of course! Precarity in employment? Also. But do you know who we should protect the Spaniards from primarily? From this government, because you are the greatest danger and the main threat to Spain, to our economy, to our freedoms and to our rule of law, and I will justify this by referring you to facts and data. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[applause]] Threat to our economy: Spain is the only country in the European Union that has not yet reached pre-pandemic GDP levels, with a public debt per capita of €30,000 and a GDP per capita of 25,460, with inflation above 10% and an underlying of 5.5%. Threat to our freedoms: censorship to which you think differently, political violence and two states of alarm of your fist and letter, minister, declared unconstitutional, the greater violation of rights and freedoms to the Spaniards in democracy with the excuse of protecting them, as if they were unable to assume their own responsibilities, and autonomous kidnapped in their homes to which they were forbidden to work and to whom they have not yet been compensated for expropriating that right to work. [[Applauds]] A threat to the rule of law: they closed the Congress, their occurrence also, minister, declared unconstitutional lock with which their government held a concentration of power proper to the dictatorships, with the Attorney General of the State at their service, the CIS and now the INE and Indra and they assault the institutions of the State and those who cannot attack them pretend to discredit, as did their partner, the Minister of Decoute and Unemployment, with the governor of the Banco de España. And how far do they intend to go? They whiten the executioners and abandon the victims. To mitigate the perverse effects of inflation, they invite the Spaniards to turn off the light and not turn on the air conditioning - whoever has it - while Times Square girls burn fuel in the Falcon and go hiking, paid with our taxes. [[Applauds]] What will be the next, Minister? Are you going to invite the Spaniards to eat twice instead of three times a day? And you're going to do it with another state of alarm to protect them? You go along the path of rationing cards because, of course, you invite the Spaniards to spend less, a rule that does not apply to your mastodontic government, which continues to waste. But, of course, taking into account the memorable phrases of their feminist ministers, one that says that public money is nobody's and, another that says: small, billions are nothing, because with these references we understand their spending policies. Advice I don't have for myself. [[Applauds]] And the royal decree that we propose to validate today, together with the Royal Decree Law 6/2022, of which it is extended, includes a set of measures that will imply a lower income to the public arks, approximately 5825 million. However, tax revenues up to May have increased from the previous year by 15.5 billion, which would triple the impact of these tax discounts. In conclusion, the Government of P. Sánchez returns only one in three euros of the revenue increase to the Spaniards and the rest is left by the Executive to continue spending without making a single cut in advisors, chiringuitos and mismanagement. It is the authentic and inimitable government of ruin. Ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half ago, no means of communication or any study service announced the economic effects of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, but what we often heard then was the risk of inflation that the economies were going to face. But this government, obsessed with euthanasia, democratic memory and focused on climate suicide forgot to protect the families from the ruinous loss of purchasing capacity that followed and which you are therefore complicit in. I will read you a text that we will publish at the beginning of November 2021. A cost inflation process is taking place due to a supply shock driven by rising energy prices, as well as the lack of supply of components and raw materials on international markets without the Government actively addressing it through energy and trade policy instruments in a credible and sustainable manner in the short term in the medium term. This is part of the entire amendment tabled by VOX to the 2022 State General Budgets, an issue on which we continue to insist as a risk factor for budgets based on an unrealistic macroeconomic picture. [[applause]] [[The lady]] Look, you started taking steps to curb inflation in April of this year, two months after the invasion of Ukraine, and when you've subsidized that 20 cents a liter of fuel, it's increased the price by at least 40 cents and when you've touched the price of light, the bill has increased. Therefore, we are now facing this crisis with the worst imaginable situation. We have a debt of 118% of GDP, an increase in interest rates and a fragile labour market based on public employment and with growth let's say fixed or discontinuous? Well, that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, inflation risk has been a fact since the end of 2020. That is why Germany, for example, dropped VAT massively to contain the rise in prices and, despite suffering more virulently from the effects of the war, has managed to maintain lower inflation levels than those recorded by Spain. This royal decree is the palm show that when they have to face problems they do it late and killing flies to cannons. It's bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. And it's not a topic, now it's a palpable reality: socialism first breaks your legs and then gives you a crutch to walk. [[Applauds]] And if not, ask the farmers, stifled by the increase in costs, with a food chain law that is another farce and that doesn't work; ask the transporters, those right-wing activists according to you, and ask the gas stationers, who are sick of financing their magnificent ideas, such as that of me, government, invitation, and you, gas stationer, you pay. [[Applauds]] You are an incapacitated government to design the policies that suit the Spanish and to implement the measures that can save our economy. In conclusion, do not save us like this, Minister. You're on your way out, and the sooner the better. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u257	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This week we have seen a new example of Mr Sánchez's erratic economic policy and of the improvisation of an overburdened and incapable of providing solutions to the problems of the Spaniards, a government which does not allow itself to be helped and which, aware of its inability, is only seeking formulas to stay for a few more months in Moncloa. Between improving the lives of the Spaniards by negotiating economic policy with the People's Party or negotiating their lives in the Council of Ministers by assuming the demands of Podemos, Pedro Sánchez has chosen the second of the options. That's why the Spaniards are going to go wrong in the future. Today's debate highlights the government's failure with the royal decree of April, in the same way that Mr Sánchez already passed on Tuesday this royal decree that we are debating today. Patch after patch and a whole huddle, Mr. Bolaños. The Government erred in April with the royal decree which, in your view, Mr Bolaños, directly, comprehensively and effectively addressed the problem of inflation. In fact, he strongly stated that outside that decree there were only conjectures, speculation, demagogy and lack of responsibility and concluded by saying - with his usual modesty - that we were facing the most ambitious plan in Europe. And today more of the same. He even said that you are an example of useful policy and effectiveness! What a mess, Mr. Bolaños! [[Applauds]] Once again, those who have not given one in their predictions and have placed Spain at the tail of Europe's main economic and social indicators are presented as the only ones in possession of the truth. Such is their pride, which even openly manifest that the opposition hinders them. Very democratic, Mr Bolaños. But let's see what happened to the prices in the three months in which you said and assured - and today you reiterated that you had solved the ballot - that we were an example of useful policy. Gasoline has risen by 13%, neutralising the 20 cent grant; electricity is five times more expensive than in 2018 and inflation has risen by 2.5 points, with peaks of almost 40 years. It is 10,2 % in interannual terms. And you say that the time has given you the reason!What did you cook, Mr. Bolaños! And what brings us today to validate? A royal decree extending until December the measures that we have already seen failed, along with a couple of measures that we already proposed to them in April, but which they rejected because, in your opinion, Mr Bolaños, they only served to empty the public coffers and put education and health at risk. I imagine you remember, Mr. Bolaños. I recommend that you copy all the proposals from the economic plan that Mr Feijoo sent you in April. Copy it whole and run it fast and well. They reduce the VAT on gas once, extend the VAT on light to all consumers, minimise the tax on hydrocarbons and adjust the IRPF to middle- and low-income families so that they do not double the price rise. [[Applauds]] And if you have decided to copy the 200 euros aid to the lowest incomes, at least do it effectively because, after a month, all these people still don't know when that aid will come to them. Correct also with regard to European funds, they have to be redefined in order for them to reach the real economy, which is not happening, Mr Bolaños. And the rest of the royal decree will be the usual sustenance and not amend it. Go on and on, you called him today. What makes you think, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, that what did not work between April and July will work between July and December? I'm warning you, without fear of error, that you will fail again. In fact, experts are already anticipating that inflation will remain in two digits for several months, which means for middle and low incomes, Mr Bolaños. How many royal decrees will it take to realize that one thing is to alleviate the effects of inflation on some collective and another, very different, to tackle the root of the problem? Who do you think will ultimately pay the two new taxes that the president announced on Tuesday and to which you referred today? Can you assure us that you will not transfer them to the end consumers, Mr Bolaños? No, you can't guarantee it, Mr. Bolaños. [[Applauds]] Is it true that the people responsible for inflation, Mr. Bolaños, are the Spaniards because after the pandemic we launched ourselves like crazy to consume, as Mr. Sánchez said yesterday? Do you really believe that, Mr. Bolaños? Have you not stopped to think about the impact of public spending, which is in record numbers, on inflation? €77 billion more than in 2018 of public expenditure. Or is it that prices only rise by the pressure of private consumption which, moreover, has fallen in the first quarter, while inflation continued to rise? On the other hand, public spending went up and up, and continues to rise. Ladies and gentlemen, why do you always forget the middle and working classes and refuse to deflate the IRPF? They have room, and what they do not have is a political will to help, with the 15.5 billion more euros they have raised, those middle and lower incomes. At the height of cynicism, how do you have to tell the Spaniards to put less air conditioning in full heat, while you maintain the most numerous and expensive political structure of democracy and Europe, Mr Bolaños? [[Applauds]] The answer I'm afraid is very simple. In the turn to populism you have given, you are not interested in the middle classes, the families, or the self-governing - to which, by the way, Mr Sánchez did not dedicate a single word - nor in companies, nor even in resolving the economic and social crisis. Nor did he say anything, by the way, about the agonistic situation that the municipalities of La Palma are experiencing, to which they have not yet paid what they had promised, that is, with television in front of them. In this I recognize some consistency, Mr Bolaños. You prefer a subsidized country to a prosperous country. You guys are comfortable. There are an increasing number of people who depend on the grant you can give them, but not on your work. You, Mr Bolaños, are stealing freedom from the Spanish; pure peronism, Mr Bolaños. [[Applauds]] Mr. Bolaños, you said that time gave you reason, but, to your misfortune, time and data are killing your story week by week and month by month. Despite its massive propaganda, its social exit from the crisis, which has already become the socialist exit from the crisis, and its supposedly progressive measures, are nothing more than mere fireworks. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality, the sad reality of the Spanish, Mr Bolaños, is that we have 13 million Spaniards at risk of social exclusion. More than ever, Mr. Bolaños. And we have four million Spaniards in poverty, Mr Bolaños. I would like you to explain what exactly you presume when you speak of social protection with these figures that I am giving you, Mr Bolaños. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish have lost approximately 24% of their purchasing power since Sánchez was in Moncloa since 2018; their savings have been reduced by approximately 100 billion as a result of inflation, by 10%, and Sáncheznos obliges us to keep the government more expensive in history and, if I may say so and in view of the results, also the most incompetent. What you must be clear about, Mr Bolaños, and I ask you to move it to Mr Sánchez, is that those gentlemen whom you despise, those ladies for whom you do not feel the slightest empathy, those are the truly powerful ones and will send you home as soon as the ballot boxes are put in. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. De Olano. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u259	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, they were talking about the ghost of Zapatero. The only ghost left here is you in the next legislature. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Uuh!-Applause]] Gentlemen of VOX, they're talking about the little boy in the government of Spain. The Government of Spain is not a chiringuite. Do you know what a chiringuito is? Where they placed Abascal and the Vice-President of Castile and León without any competition. That's a little chiringuito. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are asking us to correct with European funds. We ask you to rectify this, because you have done all you can to ensure that these important funds do not reach our country at such a difficult time. I also tell you that democracy is never expensive. You know what's expensive? The corruption of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, there are occasions in politics where there is no room for disagreements or disagreements. There are moments in history, ladies and gentlemen, when politics can only lead to dialogue, agreement and understanding, without ambiguity, because the challenge we face is greater than any of our differences. We live one of those moments. We have not chosen it or been part of the causes that have caused it, but we are here to deal with its consequences. Nothing has more value today than what we do in this vote, because the lives and bread of many Spaniards are at stake. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at war, we are in a war against the territorial integrity of Europe, against the security of Europeans and against peace and stability on our continent; a war that makes Italy, the third economy of the eurozone, today have a risk premium of 217 points, or that France, the second economy, nationalizes one hundred percent of the largest electricity company in your country; a war that fears that the gas cut-off to Germany will be definitive; a real war that has caused two countries such as Finland and Sweden to abandon their traditional military neutrality and join NATO. It seems to you that there is no war, that you are only at war with this government. And if all this has changed in four months, we wonder why you cannot change and support your country's government. As Reagan said, wars are not done by the peoples, but by their governments. In this war Putin uses gas and energy as weapons of war. To curb the impact of these weapons, inflation, this government is taking measures such as this royal decree law, which will mobilise more than EUR 15 billion in aggregate. For you everything is little and yet you do not propose anything. [[Applauds]] I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what would happen tomorrow in Spain if we did not validate these measures; what would happen if we stopped bonusing 20 cents per litre of fuel; or what would happen if we did not limit the increase in rents to 2%; or what would happen to those 2.7 million Spanish workers, self-employed or unemployed who are going to receive those 200 euros; or with the two million people who are going to receive the electric social bonus; or what would happen to all the families in this country who see how the VAT on light is reduced to 5% compared to the 21% left by Mr Rajoy; or what would happen to the transporters or cattlemen who are being supported as never before in our history; what would happen to all those non-contributory pensions if we did not raise them to 60 euros each month, or that 15% rise in the minimum living income. What would happen, ladies and gentlemen, to all these people if this royal decree were not validated? [[Applauds]] They cannot remain outside pandemics, volcanoes or, now, war. They have a responsibility to their country and their people. They have a real opportunity to demonstrate that they are patriots, because the best country is built on the values of solidarity, equality, justice and freedom. So don't have the urge to feel more patriotic than the rest when they behave with less patriotism than everyone else. It's not patriotic to lie to people, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It is not patriotic to say, as Alberto Núñez Feijóo said in 2014, with a 23% unemployment, that there was some optimism, and that now, in 2022, with a 13% unemployment, he talks about bankruptcy. She's not a patriot who says Spain doesn't grow when we're doing it at 4%. It is not patriotic to say that employment is destroyed when today we have more affiliates than ever in the history of Spain, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It is not patriotic to say that Spain went well with Rajoy when we got to have a risk premium of 600 points and that today, with 114, they talk about bankruptcy. That is not being patriotic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And of course we're not the same! Because it is not the same thing to impose a tax on the big financial corporations that rescue the bank while leaving millions of Spaniards to be drawn ; because it is not the same, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to lead in Europe the Iberian exception that it is part of the boards of the big electric companies; because it is not the same thing to lower taxes on the electricity bill, as this government has done, that to approve indecent tax amnesty to the defrauders; because it is not the same thing to generate scholarships for the people who most need it than to give scholarships to the rich, as Ayuso does in the Community of Madrid ; because it is not the same thing that we all go out together to keep many people on the road, as happened in the previous crisis with the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[applause]] [[applause]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u262	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u263	I'm on my way. This week you have spoken a lot about Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, whom, by the way, we always claim. Do you know what I would have done and said Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba right now? To support the Government of your country without fissure. You can do it, you're on time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u264	Thank you, Mr. Casares. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 12/2022, OF 5 JULY, AMENDING LAW 55/2003, OF 16 DECEMBER, OF THE FRAMEWORK STATUS OF THE STAFF OF HEALTH SERVICES. [[File number 130/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, we moved on to the debate on Royal Decree-Law No. 12/2022 of 5 July 2003 amending Law No. 55/2003 of 16 December 2003 on the Framework Staff Regulations for Health Services. To present the royal decree law has the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u266	Good afternoon. President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say hello... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u267	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u268	Thank you, President. I told them to allow me to greet the members of the ministry, in this case the director of professional ordination and his team, whom I would like to thank for the work done, because this is what I come to do here, ladies and gentlemen, to come up to this rostrum to request the validation of this House of the Royal Decree Law 12/2022 of 5 July, amending Law 55/2003 of 16 December of the Statute of the statutory staff of the health services. [[Addressing the guest gallery]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u269	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u270	Thank you. With this rule, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing the new legal framework to put an end to the high temporality of health personnel in our National Health System, because reducing the temporality of public employment in our country is a priority objective for the Government of Progress, and I am convinced that it is also a goal shared by the members of this House. As you know, public administrations in our country for too long had a high rate of temporaryity, which, far from being reduced, was increasing with particular impact on health. In order to achieve the best management in employment at the service of public administrations, coherent and rational policies of permanent staffing are needed to cover the real needs of services and thus limit the temporality to the attention of needs of a strictly short-term nature, and to this comes to respond to the rule that we bring to your consideration today. It is therefore clear that the objective of the rule I bring today is to establish quotas so that high rates of temporaryity do not occur again in our National Health System, because they will share with me that our health care providers need professional stability and that we avoid the situation of job insecurity that has occurred for so long. Thus, we understand that, by giving greater certainty to our healthcare professionals, we will contribute to the strengthening of our National Health System, and we do so together for the benefit of patients and the system as a whole, because it is a matter of justice to give professional stability to those with so much commitment and dedication who always, always, always care for us. Therefore, in order to respond to this situation of excessive temporality, the Spanish Government included in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, in component 11, on public administrations, the necessary reforms for the reduction of the temporality in public employment, and also in component 18, on the health field, concerning the strengthening of professional capacities and the reduction of the temporality in health. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise to all of you that this is an in-depth structural reform to make the functioning of public administrations more efficient. In summary, the objective of this comprehensive reform is to place the rate of temporality below 8% in all public administrations, acting in three dimensions: at the present time, i.e. on the existing temporality, with immediate measures; at the present time, by articulating effective measures to prevent and sanction, where appropriate, the abuse and fraud of temporality in the future, and finally, by enhancing tools and a culture of planning for better human resources management. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the development of the committed reforms that I have just referred to, in order to deal with the present, that is to say the already existing temporality, the Government of Spain approved the Royal Decree Law 14/2021, for the reduction of the temporality in public employment, which was processed in this House as a draft law, giving rise to Law 20/2021. With this regulation for the reduction of the temporality in the public employment we will lead, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important processes of stabilization in the National Health System, with more than 67,000 places. And through the royal decree law that I submit to you today, we will establish the normative framework to regulate the different modalities of temporary recruitment limited in time and in cases, in order to keep the temporality on the agreed and agreed margins. Ladies and gentlemen, this process of stabilization, as a starting point for the comprehensive reform addressed in order to solve the temporality existing in our National Health System, implies that the calls for more than 67 000 places in this situation must be published before 31 December this year, thus enabling more than 67 000 healthcare professionals to access them. Briefly, ladies and gentlemen, this stabilization process, which has already begun jointly between the ministry and the autonomous communities within the Delegated Technical Commission of the National Health System Resource Commission, in which the common criteria have been approved, means that job offers have already been published by all the autonomous communities, that we are now working on the bases and scales together so that the calls are published, as I have just told you, before 31 December this year and, most importantly, ladies and gentlemen - everything is important, but I am referring to the completion of this stabilization process - that they all have to be resolved before 31 December 2024. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a complex process, and I would like to acknowledge the work of all the teams, of the autonomous communities and also of the Ministry of Health to achieve stability in the employment of our healthcare professionals, so eager and so deserved. To put it into practice, ladies and gentlemen, we have two systems: one, an exceptional competition for those places which have been occupied continuously and temporarily before 1 January 2016 and, on the other, an opposition competition for those places which have been occupied temporarily and continuously at least three years before 31 December 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you, it is a complex process, but it is also a historic and very relevant process for our National Health System, and especially for the thousands and thousands of healthcare professionals who are going to achieve such long-awaited professional stability. For them and for them it is worth this reform and the law that will come out of this Parliament. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, for the time being, if I may say so, with this royal decree we establish the normative framework, because it is a matter of ending the existing temporality, but also of establishing the legal framework that will allow us not to return to that temporality again, and we do so with this royal decree establishing the different modalities of temporary recruitment, limited in time, limited in the cases and with the intention of preventing the recurrence of these unacceptable temporaryity exchanges. In broad terms, ladies and gentlemen, with this rule, for which it was requested to validate it, possible appointments disappear and two large groups are established: temporary temporary staff and temporary temporary staff replaced, and the causes of appointments are laid down in both cases. Temporary statutory temporary staff appointments are to occur - cases - where there is a vacancy that has not been filled by fixed staff, in the case of temporary programmes and also in the case of the accumulation of tasks, for a maximum of nine months within a period of eighteen months. For the other group, the replacement staff may be temporarily recruited in the absence of staff for leave, temporary incapacity or dispensation, among other reasons, and the exception for the Military Health Corps is provided. It is also possible to appoint replacement staff for the coverage of continuous care - I am referring to the guards, we are talking about very specific positions that have to be filled yes or yes - and in this case we set the limit of up to two professionals who exercise the right of exception of their performance, either by age - more than fifty-five years old - by sickness or other reasons, and also, in the last case, of replacement staff for the coverage of daily reductions for the care of a child or a father or mother, among other things, and always with the temporary limit of three years. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition, the maximum time for appointment is set, the causes for the termination of the interim relationship, so that, when the maximum time limit for appointment is reached, health services cannot perform another for the same position, for the same function, for the same activity, for the same cause that generated the initial appointment. It is also important to share with you that the total calculation of all appointments of temporary statutory staff that are continuously or interrupted fall on the same person under no circumstances can exceed the three-year period. Measures are also envisaged to control temporaryity, and it is stipulated that vacancies held by acting statutory staff shall be covered by any of the mechanisms of provision or mobility provided for in the regulations of each public administration. And something that seems very important to me, and is that this royal decree law amending the framework statute has been negotiated and agreed with the most representative unions in the field, whom I would like to recognize from this rostrum the work done and their commitment, especially during this time of negotiation, to bring to this House this validation of the royal decree. [[Applauds]] In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are dealing with a point-by-point amendment and that, as stated in the first additional provision of this royal decree law, within three months we will again begin negotiations within the area with the trade unions for the amendment or updating of the framework statute more broadly, to which I also hope this House can be added, as we have shared with your ladies and gentlemen the progress in the process of negotiations with the trade unions. It is the purpose of this minister, and we offer ourselves to continue to advance in a shared way in the next modification for the updating of the framework statute, because we also had to do so, as you know, on a date, within a year, that was the deadline that was provided for by Royal Decree-Law 14/2021. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Request the validation of this royal decree law in order to carry out the comprehensive reform that allows the reduction of the temporality of the health personnel in our National Health System, which this Government considers a priority question, of justice and, moreover, a question of country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u271	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, is taking part in the position-setting exercise. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u272	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the matter of interim measures we have already spoken in this forum before, even I had the opportunity to ask an oral question with a proposal to the Minister of Education on the subject of teaching staff. Now the issue of health is quite similar and we also want to be constructive. Probably in health care it is even more bloody than in the teaching field and, of course, much more than in the general administration, because at least in Cantabria the situation of health personnel at the moment is practically unsustainable. There is a procedure under way since 31 May by the Cantabro de Saúde Service with a public job offer for the stabilization of 2431 places, of which 237 are by competition opposition and 2194 by competition of merits; competition of merits that derives from the sixth and eighth provisions of the law that we approve in this Congress, law with many problems and deficiencies, as we have already denounced - that is why we have to make this decree law - but it is in force and we have to apply it. This gives us an idea of the volume of the problem we have, because only in a community like Cantabria are we talking about thousands of affected. On the same day, also in Cantabria, a competition for transfers of 688 places from all the statutory categories was convened, which also has to be resolved beforehand, before 31 December this year, in the consolidation process that is done for the staff who are in eventual employment. In this it has to be combined and affects the Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, of course, Torrelavega, the Hospital de Laredo and above all primary care, and there are staff of all kinds: specialists doctors, primary care, nurses and nurses, which is the largest group, but there are also other health personnel and service staff. The situation is going to be chaotic, as far as I'm concerned, it's going to take a huge effort to get it going. The PRC will support the validation of this decree law for several reasons. The first, because it is untenable for the Administration itself that a situation such as the current one, which cannot be addressed by the usual channels, can continue, and above all, I say to you, at the Marqués Hospital in Valdecilla, which is a national reference hospital, as everyone knows, of those of great prestige in the country, and of course for the health personnel, who are also affected in their working and personal lives. It will also have a huge impact on citizenship, and we believe that in the rural world especially, where people want to have a doctor close to them who is not subject to this job insecurity. I mean, I wish the managers a lot of luck, that they would complete the process successfully, and you, Minister...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u273	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u274	...I tell you not to do as the Minister of Education, who seems to have not learned very well about the proposals. I believe that all managers would thank him very much for being able to coordinate the process among all the autonomous communities. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u275	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. Time passes, I don't remember if it was two years ago, when Mr Iceta was Minister of Public Administrations, which I had to endure - because the Canary Coalition and this Member was the first one who brought the topic of temporality in public administrations - who told me that I was an ignorant bold when I told him about the ruling of the European High Court of Justice, when I told him about the report by Mrs Emilia Casas, when I told him what the situation was. Mr. Iceta was about to make the greatest ERE in history because he simply planned to put people who had been on the street for ten, eleven, fifteen years, and thanks to Esquerra, this deputy and the PNV, that was brought back, and thank God, they stopped Mr. Iceta. Then came that law, which seemed insufficient to us, but we support it, as I say, with a very important political intervention by Esquerra and the Basque Nationalist Party, and with the support of this Member. But we had to get this out today, and I don't put a single one on the minister, because she also said that she's going to bring the amendment of the framework law with all the things that are needed. Because what is coming today is a matter of minimums of execution of the European judgment; of minimums. And what this country cannot afford is for a president of the government to come out a week ago and announce: And we are also going to fix 67 000 health care providers. That's false, it's been said by the college organizations and it's been said by doctors. That is not because Mr Sánchez has been generous in resolving the temporality of doctors in this country, it has been because he has an obligation to comply with European standards and repeated sentences of having to develop the law, and the law on the medical aspect was with the amendment of the framework law. They have had to explain to their people the medical college organs, because there are people watching TV, listening to the radio, reading the newspapers and it is believed that the one who has been in a square for seventeen years is going to stay, and that is not the case. In addition, there are important issues with regard to the competitions, because they will be opened. And what is going to happen is that in an autonomous community where a person has been in a square for ten or fifteen years, another person from another autonomous community may come, unless the matter is resolved, to raise the square for two more years and he wants to go somewhere else; instead of being in the deep Castile, he goes to Lanzarote. So, Minister, it seems to me very well what you have done. I think we need to bring that framework law, where we will have to talk about a lot of things, because this country has a commitment to health care, but it is good to have to endure that thanks to Pedro Sánchez we are going to fix 67 000 doctors. That's fake. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u277	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u278	Pick it up on. Madam Minister, we agree that eventuality must be halted. You commented that one of the fundamental issues of the development of this decree and of the future process is the negotiation with the most representative trade unions. Precisely, that is one of the fundamental problems that we will have to face in the future, how we will respond to the different specificities that exist in the State in nationalities and with competences in which trade union representation is totally different. It is a basic and fundamental element. In this process, the involvement of professionals, technicians and institutions in making the development strategy in order to achieve these objectives is essential. No one knows better than the autonomies themselves and the unions themselves how the situation is, where it can be reached and with what problems we can find ourselves. This is one of the elements that we want to say to you that this decree does not take care of, with which I advance that we are not going to support it and we are going to keep abstaining. It is not guaranteed in our case in Euskadi or in the Foral Community to be able to carry with all guarantees a process as complicated as this will be. [[The lady]] But we agree that this eventuality must be halted, the pandemic has made clear the serious situation in which health, the public health system in our country, is found. It is a situation that the pandemic has brought to light, but this crisis came earlier and has revealed the situation that professionals in the sector and trade unions have been denouncing for years. A crisis that has come from budgetary cuts from years ago and from a lack of adequate strategies to deal with the demographic and social changes that exist. This is affecting all the fundamental systems of the social system of law. The right to health protection was a basic right, and those years of budgetary constraints had also been due to lack of planning, a precarious recruitment model and inadequate adaptation to new social needs. All this is weakening what are the real pillars of the social rule of law. In this case what we are talking about is the public health system. The interests of some minorities at the cost and above the basic and fundamental rights of the entire population are being taken precedence, expressly or passively. And in our autonomous community it is also happening, it is not alien to this situation. It is a process of privatization of services. A system like Osakidetza, which enjoyed the highest quality and excellence, is suffering precisely from this lack of investment and these cuts and, of course, also from this precariousness that we are talking about. The precariousness of health personnel is one of the basic structural problems within the crisis of the system. The lack of personnel, the high probability, the high rates of work and stress are symptoms precisely of this crisis that we are talking about. The precariousness in contracts, and we want to insist that we agree to put an end to this eventuality, is one of the basic elements of this crisis, because it is the professionals, the people, who assist, diagnose and care for people. If people are not well, the system is not well. I'm going to give you a brief account of the situation we have in Euskadi. In many services more than 50% of the staff in the staff are contingent personnel. In the case of the Autonomous Community, the official staff of Osakidetza is 27,600 and the actual staff, that is, the people who are coming to work, are between 36,000 and 38,000 people, and without a code. I mean, it's a system that's totally uncontrolled right now. This means that there are uncontrolled numbers of uncoded jobs that have been concatening contracts for years and years in a precarious way. We insist that this decree is a positive step, but it is not guaranteed that it can be properly developed. It is positive when it comes to the emergence and limitation of fraudulent recruitment, but it is insufficient, among other issues, because it is not guaranteed that there is adequate planning or negotiation in the hands of each health system. If self-government is not guaranteed within the framework of self-negotiation, it will be very difficult to respond to existing shortcomings. In each autonomy there are different social actors, different unions, different representation; therefore, it is necessary to give them voice not only at the time of development, but also at the time of the design of how this is to be carried out. It is an urgent matter and I would therefore like to stress that this negotiation is also going to take place in a critical period. In the short term, what about the short-term situation that we currently have with the summer holidays, the cuts that that is assuming and the lack of existing coverage, but at the structural and medium-term level it is also coinciding with a generational relief that is being carried out without any planning. Youth is leaving us precisely because we are not guaranteeing decent work lives. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for the development of this law to respect the autonomous frameworks and allow professional classifications, operational updates, days and organizational improvements to be made. Give each framework, each health system, an opportunity so that we can take this forward with guarantees. Otherwise, it's going to be even harder than we're assuming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u279	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u280	President, if I may, I shall speak from the seat. Good afternoon, minister. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to continue with the account that has been presented by the speakers who have spoken at the speaking time before me. Of course, we agree on that priority and shared objective, as you said, minister, to determine with temporality and, in addition, to take steps to ensure that this does not happen again in the future. This should not have happened. Replenishment rates that were complicating the situation of health managers have led us to this situation, but I share the report, as previously said, that this is not the first chapter, this is not something new, but it gives continuity to a process that comes from before. It is the European Union, with the approval in 1999 of the framework agreement and then the rest of the judgments that there have been, that establishes progress as a condition to be able to access the funds of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. In the explanatory statement of the draft Decree-Law this is stated: in order to be able to access both component 11 and component 18 - the reform 4 to which you referred - it was absolutely necessary to make progress in this area. Decree-Law No. 14/2021 was subsequently adopted and Law No. 20/2022, referred to above, was subsequently adopted, and the second final provision was pending to adapt, in particular in the educational and health fields, the Framework Staff Regulations for Health Services. Here's my first but. It used to be said: we don't put any buts on it. We do put a but, this one. For a year you have waited up to three days before the final deadline set for bringing the decree law to this House. Therefore, of course, article 86 of the Constitution and the need for urgency are fully justified, because obviously the deadline is over. The question is, why haven't you brought him in before? Why did they not bring him in that year and would not have stolen from us the parliamentary debate and confrontation from the different positions of the citizenry? I believe that it could have been done before and that we could have participated in that parliamentary debate, which is planned, and we could have participated more actively in the drafting of the text of the law. On the other hand, I believe that the rest of the amendments are formal, they are what is provided for in the law, but there is one, which has also been mentioned, which concerns us and which I have had the opportunity to comment with you in particular: the first additional provision contained in the draft law, which refers to negotiation. You have referred to her and we are so concerned that we have been thinking that perhaps we would have to apply for processing as a bill. You have made a commitment to bring it here not as a decree law but as a bill so that we may have the possibility of amendment. But what worries us is what negotiating capacity you are assuming, will have or intend to exercise in the field of health services, because in principle, by the first additional provision itself, we do not have to think that you are going to exceed the competences you would have, but if we have to interpret what is laid down in the light of the provisions of the explanatory statement, and you in the explanatory statement - you or your team, although surely you have tried to do a good job - you say: to ensure the coverage of places in certain geographical areas not sufficiently attended through incentive measures and to improve the working environment and conditions through measures that contribute to your professional development. Of course, what is yours is competence in general coordination of health and the foundations of the legal system, of the statutory system of its functions, but the establishment of incentive measures and the improvement of the working and economic conditions of health personnel are the competence of the autonomous communities, of health managers, and they have to negotiate it in their framework of action. First, because it is their constitutionally established competence and, moreover, because they know their reality better than anyone else, they are the ones who have established their channels and their channels of negotiation with the trade unions. By the way, the majority of the State is not always the majority elsewhere. That is our concern: where do you intend to get with that negotiation. If it is left to you, on the bases, of course we will support and work so that we can make progress in updating the framework statute, a deeper update, but if not, we will stand on the wall and will not count on our support. Therefore, those buts that I do put to you are two: that you have waited until the last moment to bring it here as a matter of urgency and we cannot amend and, secondly, I remain with your commitment that you will bring it and that it will not be exceeded in your powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u281	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u282	Thank you, President. Minister, good afternoon. The pandemic we are already overcoming has put many weaknesses of our National Health System on the table. We've seen a lot of seams in our system. We have seen how decentralization was confused with dismantling. We have experienced many structural and material deficiencies, the absence of protocols and absolute improvisation. We have seen that the developed early warning mechanisms were not provided for an effective response to health emergencies, nor have we given importance to preventive medicine and public health. For years, the administrations had looked elsewhere. This is not the fault of this Government, it is the fault of a philosophy that did not take into account that things like the one we have experienced, a pandemic, could happen. What do I mean by that? That it's not the government's fault. The government's fault would be to not move, but they're moving. I'd like them to move more, but they're moving. This decree is a movement and that is why we will support it. During the pandemic, the National Health System did not come down by one of its pillars, which was the one that endured everything when all the bureaucracy and mismanagement came down, when real-time data came to us from Wuhan and we had to do Excel sheets because there was no communication of any kind among the autonomous communities. That is why I say that all this is not decentralization but dismantling. Yet he endured the system for his staff, which was the best we had, the health personnel in all their categories, to whom we owe a great deal. One of the issues that was unanimously adopted at the reconstruction table and which is more discussed in the Health Committee - in its numerous appearances here and Mr Illa's earlier - is that the working conditions of the health personnel were not optimal. There was an excess of temporality that prevented them not only from making a life plan - having a family or buying a house, something you can't do if you don't know how long your work contract will last - but also that instability in the equipment is not good either. It is not the best thing for management to change permanently to a health care post in the community on which it works, which it knows, which has specific pathologies or a nucleus of population that it knows perfectly well. In this regard, what have we wanted to contribute during the pandemic? In the face of this dismantling, in the face of this poor so-called decentralization, we have proposed the single health card to them, we have proposed many measures which harmonize and which put equality between the Spanish, regardless of where they live, in a matter as essential as health. It is true that the implementation of this unique health card that we have managed to introduce into the budgets is not what we would like, but it is also true that it is much better than what was before. We're on. I would like to ask you, Minister, for the approval of the specialties of emergency medicine and emergency medicine. You know it's one of the great demands. They have adopted very important specialties in different areas, and we have supported them and applaud them when they do things right, but in this royal decree it is true that we are concerned, for example, that there are no hints of what it will do to allow more recruitment by the autonomous communities of health personnel. It is true that the autonomous communities will have something to say in this area, not the whole Government will do. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u284	Thank you, President. It is also true that during these days we have seen a strip and slack on the part of the People's Party and the Government of Spain: that if you announce this recruitment, but they will do it... Typical role of political parties when citizens give it exactly the same and what they need is to have an accessible health care facility that will allow them to spend more time in their health centre or in their nearest primary care centre. For example, in Castile and León we had a plan just for this; of course, they changed a vice president and put on a geranium, and that has absolutely stalled. But it is true that in this matter, which is absolutely structural, the government does not give any certainty... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u285	I'm sorry to interrupt you again, Mr. Díaz. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u286	I'm finishing up. I know that they have come to a good agreement with healthcare professionals, that healthcare professionals support this, but they are somewhat skeptical about the practical application of this royal decree. I ask you to ensure that this will apply, that those who fight about whether it will be them or others will comply with this royal decree. However, as we believe that it can be improved in some areas, we too will vote in favour of the processing of this royal decree as a bill. I conclude by telling you, Mrs Darias, to keep moving, especially in mental health. Now that we are talking about the staff of health professionals, you know better than I how the mental health of Spanish health professionals has been affected, you know that you have possibly been the most affected collective in this matter of mental health of all Spaniards. I would also like to welcome the fact that it seems to me that there is a motion for a resolution on mental health that the majority groups are going to be happy to support, and I think that is good news. That not everything is bad between us and the Government today, but that things are not excellent, but that are quite fine. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u288	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG has already registered a number of initiatives calling for a new framework statute to respond to the real situation of public health personnel, which was also defended by the majority union in Galicia, the Galega Inter-Union Confederation, the IGC-Saúde, during the negotiation processes. Finally, it was bet that a partial reform was limited to moving the necessary changes to adapt the rules on temporality. However, this change, in our view, is clearly insufficient, as it will not serve to stabilise places, let alone create new places in the public health system, which are so necessary for proper care, as it affects only the form of recruitment as from its entry into force. The current reform will also not be used to ensure that the temporary situation that exists at this time is not repeated, as the replacement rate of the workforce is maintained, which prevents all those which should be considered structural, that is, all those which are essential for the proper functioning of the public health system, from being created as stable places. The sector calls for the negotiation of a new framework statute that responds to the situation of public health personnel, collecting their own and specific conditions, including in a necessary way aspects such as the identification system of places, partial and early retirement without penalty, the inclusion of a basic professional career standard for fixed and temporary statutory staff and a basic standard on permits and on work and family reconciliation, or the revision of qualifications maps, among other issues. This was the time to negotiate with the sector a professional classification adapted to public health professionals, since the mere transposition of Article 76 of the EBEP into the new framework statute does not allow the current professional groups to adapt to the reality of the health professions. There is therefore a need for a new framework statute introducing an own classification that recognises the qualifications, specific health training and the provision of work. We believe that decent and adequate conditions should also be guaranteed for public health system staff, which is essential for quality health care for citizens. In fact, I would like to recall that the BNG has always defended the importance of strengthening it by fighting against cuts and dismantling or privatization, which we know very well in Galicia after thirteen years of government by the People's Party and by Núñez Feijóo. The pandemic has further demonstrated the essentiality of the public health system, and I would like to recall that in the conclusions of the Reconstruction Commission we approved, at the initiative of the BNG, to eliminate the troop replacement rate to hire all the necessary personnel.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u289	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u290	Finished. Unfortunately, the Government has not complied, so we ask you to comply now. Listen to the workers and facilitate this negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u291	Thank you, Mr. Rego. I also have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u292	Thank you, President. We here know that the health system has long been tense, mainly because of insufficient economic and human resources. Spain is one of the countries with the highest rate of temporality within the European Union. Brussels has been asking us to regularise this situation for a long time. If we focus on the public sector, health is one of the sectors with the highest rate of temporality. If we refer to Catalonia, this temporality affects about 38% of the staff of the Institut Català de la Salut. This Royal Decree Act continues Royal Decree Act No. 14/2021, Act No. 20/2021 of 28 December on urgent measures to reduce the duration of public employment; amends Act No. 55/2003 of 16 December 2003 on the status of statutory staff in health services; disappears any appointments; and defines temporary temporary staff, substitute statutory staff and their causes. Is the high rate of temporality a problem in the public health system? Yeah. Is the system's high rate of temporality the most serious health problem today? In my humble opinion, no. The problem of lack of staff is far more serious than job consolidation. For years, professional colleges have warned of the shortage of staff and the need to offer more attractive conditions. A few days ago, the Ara newspaper published an extensive and interesting report on the reasons for the lack of doctors and nurses in public health. There is a shortage of nursing places, specialists, precariousness, low salaries, too much bureaucracy. [[Rumors]] All this makes that, while the pace of retirements is accelerating, the training of new health professionals remains stable, so, as I told you, the real problem will be the shortage of professionals that we have already started to cause. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you again for silence, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u294	We appreciate the work done by the Ministry with trade union organizations and the different representatives of the sector, as well as the analysis and study of the various observations and contributions to improve the text presented. We understand that this amendment takes a small step for the benefit of workers in the public health system, but much remains to be done. To conclude my speech, I would like to thank the Director General of Professional Ordination, Mrs Celia Gómez, for the opportunity she gave us to the parliamentary groups to discuss this royal decree in advance. We are going to vote in favour of this royal decree law, but, Minister, we are paying attention to the issue of competitive invasion, and I pick up your words when you tell us that it is a timely amendment and that within three months we are going to make progress on a forthcoming amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u295	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u296	Thank you very much, President. Minister, good afternoon. We share the Government's willingness to reform the system of access to the civil service with the reduction of one aspect, namely the temporary nature of public employment, one of the major issues that needs to be reformed. In fact, as I have already mentioned, one of the objectives of the Transformation and Resilience Recovery Plan is to place the structural temporality rate below 8% in all public administrations of the State. The challenge is therefore marked as a priority not only in the health sector but also in the public sector as a whole. It is precisely one of the main problems affecting the field of health services that is, on the one hand, the high rate of job insecurity and, on the other, temporaryity. However, any proposal for labour reform affecting health is based precisely on a very time-consuming and very complex situation, probably much more than in other sectors. If we add to this the discouragement and tiredness of the health care professional, who with the pandemic has been subjected to great care pressure, we will understand why health workers feel aggravated, despised in many cases. That is why it is so urgent to focus precisely on this reform. It is urgent to regain strength and confidence in the public health system as a guarantee of the strengthening of the welfare state, and that is only achieved by structural reforms of silence, fleeing from short-term measures which often simply entangle what is already entangled. We believe that this royal decree represents one of those structural measures of silence, as you have commented, which aim to reduce the so high rate of interinity existing with a look - and that is the important thing - towards the final stabilization of the interims. In fact, there are health workers who have been acting all their lives. Therefore, it is a recurring topic for work. However, in our view, some of the proposed measures will not only guarantee the reduction of interinity, but could even end up chronizing the presence of interinos in the National Health System. The amendment to article 9, paragraph 2, specifies that, after three years after the appointment of the acting statutory staff, the termination of the interim relationship shall take place and the vacancy may be filled only by fixed statutory staff. In that sense, no problem. However, it is incorporated that unless the relevant selection process has not covered the position in question, in which case another appointment of the acting statutory staff may be made. We can understand that the law does not allow this place to be filled by now without actually a call and a prior selective process, it is very clear, but we are afraid that this will allow the duration of the appointments of the interims to be extended beyond the three years of limitation and that this will make it easier for the same post to be filled with interim staff for a longer period of time, regardless of whether the place is always retained by the same professional or, instead, there is a rotation; a rotation that, on the other hand, may end up affecting the quality and stability of the provision of the service itself. Let us take as an example primary and community care, where, in order to ensure continuity and care follow-up, a certain retention and retention of professionals is necessary. These are the risks that we will see by not being closed precisely that aspect in this royal decree. On the other hand, there is a risk of a decrease in the consolidation of fixed posts, which is simply a short-term measure, as it is linked to extraordinary stabilization processes. Without extraordinary stabilization processes, interinity will be extended. That is why we predict that when they are finished, there would be a sustained increase in interinity. Any planning must be done from a certain perspective and not only through short-term measures. I repeat, we understand the limited margin that the law gives today to resolve this gap between the completion of the interinity and the call of the square and that, therefore, it would be necessary to amend the Staff Regulations of the Health Services Staff and to make a much deeper reform, and that is simply a concrete aspect. In that connection, we welcome the inclusion in the text of the Royal Decree of the first additional provision, the beginning of the trade union negotiation process for updating the framework statute. We hope to be able to participate in this process of reform of the framework statute, since so far we have often encountered a policy of fait accompli, which has already been mentioned here. On the other hand, we believe that they will agree with the autonomous communities on their own reform, bearing in mind that on the basis of their full competences and the different management models of each of the communities, including the different levels of territorial representation of the sector, they will be the ones who will most of the times have to implement the measures. I have already told you that because of all these doubts, because of these possible risks that we see, we are going to abstain. In any case, we will vote against its processing as a draft law, as we are guaranteed that there will then be a work of negotiation and continuity in what is the reform of the framework statute. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u298	Good afternoon. The adaptation to the field of health of Law 20/2021 comes to the Plenary. Access to the public service must be carried out on an equal basis and in accordance with the principle of merit and capacity. This is said in the Spanish Constitution, but this principle has been questioned because of the bad practices of the Administration in providing statutory health personnel to the health services, preventing the actual needs of the health for years to come to be met. The lack of public calls to demonstrate precisely that merit and capacity has led to a very high rate of temporality. There are several reasons for these bad practices, which are even reflected in the document of the royal decree: budgetary reasons, for example; budget laws prevented the provision of new structural places for public health to reduce public spending. What did that mean? Not only that the number of places was not increased, but structural places have been amortized, precarious contracts have been developed and a high rate of temporaryity that endangers health. The financing of private health management was never stopped. Health has suffered for too long from the attacks of the governments of the People's Party, because the PP addresses the crises through the containment of spending, and precisely with the containment of public spending the crisis is paid by workers by depriving them of public services such as health care. The PP could tackle the crisis by making the rich pay their taxes like the other people, but of that nothing, the motto of the People's Party is that, in Spain, a rich oligarch will first pass through the eye of a needle that pays a tax; in Spain, we will first destroy the public services so necessary for everyone that the rich pay taxes, and that the PP also does not hide it, says it clearly. [[applause]] The second reason is to weaken public health in order to promote private health, because public health has been attacked in many ways, little by little, but without pause, with Mr Aznar's Law 15/1997, maintaining the system of civil servants' mutual societies and, specifically and in relation to this rule, maintaining high rates of interinity and precariousness in a public service fundamental to all citizens, and which is the greatest compensator of inequality that we have. But Europe warns the Spanish authorities that they must correct the excess of time to improve the efficiency and quality of service. The very high temporality of structural squares endangers the public service itself and it is necessary that these squares be covered with fixed personnel, in the same way that health professionals who have demonstrated merit and capacity with years of quality work can access the fixedness; hence the extraordinary consolidation processes so that those who have years of work demonstrating their worth consolidate their squares. And from here, and for the future, this royal decree law will reduce the temporality, but we believe that some doubts are generated in some specific points. For example, what happens after the three-year period the square is not covered? That is something I have commented on with other Members. What does the end of the interinity relationship mean? Does it mean that the interim stays in the post but is no longer an interim? That the interim is terminated and another interim is hired if the square has not been covered by a public offer process? We assume that these issues will be negotiated in the process which, within three months of the entry into force of this royal decree, will be carried out to update the framework statute, as provided for in the eighteenth additional provision. But it seems to us that the text suffers from this lack of clarity. In Unity We believe that this decree should clearly establish the obligation on the Autonomous Communities to comply scrupulously with the spirit of regulation. These forecasts can only serve the objective they pursue if the autonomous communities, in an effective way, call for the coverage of the structural squares before the maximum period of three years has elapsed, because, if not, there will be a lot of problems. The regulation is a fit, it seems to me to be well assembled, but it is necessary for each part to work well for the whole to work. Will each of these parts be monitored? Is the gear going to be monitored? How will it be done? They're incognites that I assume will soon be revealed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u299	Thank you very much, Mrs. Medel. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u300	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are dealing with the validation of the Royal Decree Law 12/2022. It is important that you know this, ladies and gentlemen, and those who listen to us, because if only you had listened to the Minister of Health in her intervention anyone could believe that we are facing the validation of the Royal Decree Law 14/2021, because she has dedicated three quarters of her intervention to talking about another royal decree law, which is the famous royal decree law of stabilization of the interims, which has not, by the way, served to stabilize any interim, in any case to send some of them to the street, to begin with. [[Applauds]] We are facing a very complex royal decree law by the circumloquies it gives. It uses very complex words for very simple realities, and it is actually empty of content, because what we see here clearly - and we have been seeing it all day - is a government that is leaving and a Socialist Party united with We are in an internal war. Clearly, the Government is dissolving and what they are trying to do, at forced marches and with little success, is to launch populist measures to try to hang small medals that hold them in power a few more months, because they come and tell us that with this royal decree they intend to stabilize the temporary staff of the Administration in the health sector. In order for all Spaniards to know, according to the government data, there is 47.3% temporaryity in health care; almost half of Spain's health workers are in precarious condition, and the government comes and tells us that it will solve it with this royal decree law, when the reality is that the only thing that makes this royal decree law is to change the name to things. You come and say that what was acting personal is now called temporary statutory personal; perfect, it seems that with that you would have solved it. We are told that they create an obligation so that they can only be hired as temporary statutory staff for a maximum of three years, which is what Spanish labour law already says, which is what the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union already say, which is what the rulings of the higher courts of justice of Spain already say, which are recognising the illegality of temporary contracts in law fraud for more than three years. What do you intend to do with this? Change the name to something that already exists. But the thing is even better, because they say that on certain occasions it will be possible to hire people in precarious conditions; only on certain occasions, that is when there is a vacant position, to run temporary programmes or for excessive accumulation of tasks, that is, if in an emergency there is a lot of work it will be possible to hire someone temporary statutory. Exactly the same as it is now! [[Applauds]] Exactly the same as there is now, and I am going to give concrete examples: the typical doctor who works in emergencies, who has been covering in a precarious way a square that is never taken to competition for twenty years. There are a lot of cases, Minister, all over Spain. And this royal decree that you want to validate today continues to be allowed. Moreover, it expressly provides for this. So, it's a shame that you're trying to hang your medallions by deceiving the Spaniards with the idea that in the upcoming elections you're going to be held, you don't run away from the Socialist Party or Podemos and, deceived, you're going to vote again. On the other hand, you say: from now on, consequences will be established for when the Administration violates the law. And when we see those consequences, they mean that for those workers who are kept in a job in law fraud, compensation will be paid - since the adoption of this royal decree law, not before -. And what's the compensation? Compensation of 20 days per year worked, with a maximum of one year. It is less compensation than that recognized by labour legislation for improper dismissals. [[Applauds]] This is neither compensation nor a consequence of any kind. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u301	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u302	Because, moreover, the administrations that, as they do today, systematically contract in law fraud, as they do today, will have to pay with money that is not theirs - because they take it out of their pocket to the Spaniards - lower compensation than you recognise for improper dismissals in labour matters. That is to say, all the health workers in Spain should read carefully the few articles - because it is true that they have made little effort, it is very brief - of this royal decree law and fall into the account that the socialist government is a pure scam; a pure scam. [[Applauds]] They lie with grandiose words to hide simple realities. Everything's still the same. The violations you establish are not such. I mean, administrations can keep people in law fraud by paying them ridiculous compensation and trying to hide it to hang you a medal. What they do not deal with are the competitions for transfers between autonomous health systems. They don't say anything about that, and it's a sector claim. They say nothing about the periodicity of the competition of the squares, which would solve the temporality. They don't say any of this. Nor do they say anything about protecting the MIR system, the great value of Spanish health which, by the way, Podemos and Esquerra, who are his allies, are directly attacking.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u303	Mr. Figaredo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u304	Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u305	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u306	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Official Gazette of the State published on 6 July Royal Decree Law 12/2022, amending Law 55/2003 of the Staff Regulations of the statutory staff of the health services, a law promoted by my partner, Ana Pastor, as Minister of Health 19 years ago with a broad consensus of this House. But, as I say, it has been almost twenty years since its adoption, and that is why it requires an update, as we have said in my group. It brings us the validation of a royal decree law that affects health professionals in health services, a royal decree with which the Government has attempted to play at the ceremony of confusion, with the announcement by President Sánchez of the stabilization of 67 000 health professionals, as we were able to hear in this House in the debate of the state of the nation. You are trying to attribute an extraordinary stabilization process that is already under way in the various autonomous communities with the respective sectoral tables to comply with Law 20/2021, of urgent measures for the reduction of the temporality. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u307	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u308	Don't use the problem of high temporality in health for propagandistic purposes and empty ads, which won't be repeated long enough to make it true. Don't take advantage of others. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do not manipulate or narrow the words in the sitting papers of this House, as Mrs Crespín did this morning when she referred to the payment of medicines from a system still in force in reference to my colleague, Bermúdez de Castro. Read it well. The negotiations established by the various trade union centres with the Director General of Professional Planning of the Ministry of Health do not refer to any stabilisation process or mention the possibility of converting more than 67 000 temporary contracts into fixed ones. These negotiations did not begin with trade union representatives until February, although they knew that they had a legislative mandate to adopt, within one year, the regulatory framework for statutory staff. Minister, it's always late. This royal decree establishes changes with the aim that temporary contracts in the National Health System are limited to what is really essential to adapt it to Law 20/2021, a specific amendment in only three articles, Minister. The types and causes of contracts that may be made in the National Health System are changed. Ladies and gentlemen, these changes in the framework statute do not in any way mean an increase in professionals, and it has nothing to do with the stabilization processes that the various autonomous communities are negotiating in health services. Madam Minister, as you know, the Court of Justice of the European Union itself has pointed out that in Spain there is no automatic transformation of a temporary service relationship into a permanent service relationship, so it cannot fix any temporary one automatically, but must be moved to a selective process. Therefore, Minister, ladies and gentlemen who support the Government, do not take ownership of what others are doing in the autonomous communities, and do not confuse healthcare professionals by mixing different matters. Ladies and gentlemen, with the validation of this royal decree-law, an urgent opportunity is lost for the government to resolve the situation of lack of professionals in primary care and to respond to what my parliamentary group has been demanding two years ago: a real human resources plan aimed at health professionals and which particularly strengthens primary care. Minister, it has also been claimed from the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System by the different health advisers, regardless of the political sign, because it is brutal the serious problem facing public health at the moment. [[Applauds]] There is a shortage of doctors specializing in family and community medicine that is increasingly evident every day, and there is a shortage of nurses. It's no use if they don't approach what they reflect. In their own report they offer the needs of specialists and doctors 2021-2023, but it is useless if they do not take shock measures urgently to supplement the 2022-2023 primary care plan. They attend to what the health advisors ask them to do: ensure that the MIR election system does not leave empty places, as has happened this year with 200 free family and community places. But it is that, in addition, 181 people who were making residences in the family and community area of the last call have chosen to change their specialty in this year's call. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u309	Mrs. Velasco, excuse me a moment, please. [[Pause]] Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u310	The Ministry of Health has failed to award 2336 places offered in primary care for this call. Its extraordinary call for non-Community doctors has been a failure: 93 deserted places. This will be a structural problem in four years' time. It is necessary to choose MIR in real time, create already the specialty of medicine of emergencies and emergencies, expand the number of places of family and community medicine increasing the teaching units, strengthen the accreditation system and training programs of the specialty, the registration of professionals... Finally, consider whether they really care about the National Health System. Ladies and gentlemen, health professionals need urgent action now and, of course, the PSOE-Podemos government has not dedicated itself to a plan for them, because they are more busy solving their own differences than solving the problems of health professionals. We need to change the framework status of healthcare staff, because it requires an update with a broader approach and, in some cases, urgent in order to collect already consolidated changes, both by European regulations and by repeated jurisprudence in the Spanish courts, because it is a rule that has more than twenty years.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u311	Mrs. Velasco, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u312	I'm on my way. They are necessary improvements for health professionals. That is why we are going to ask for a bill, because it has been four years in the Government and little concern for health professionals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Velasco. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u314	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Minister of Health, Director of Professional Planning, Deputy Director of Cohesion and Ministry team, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rego, you spoke about your amendment, but you did not care much about the replacement rate, because you voted no to the opinion of the Reconstruction Committee in which we included your amendment. But we do care about the replacement rate. [[Applauds]] Mr. VOX Spokesman, I'm going to tell you something. John Kennedy said that too often we enjoy the comfort of opinion without the discomfort of thought. I am very afraid, Mr VOX, that in the debate on this matter you will enjoy your right to express your opinion without having exercised thought before. [[Applauds]] I encourage you to rethink your position and also to study, Mr. VOX spokesman, although that requires a lot of effort. Today we are taking a definitive step in the comprehensive reform undertaken by the Government for the stabilization of health professionals; a process of stabilization that comes from the commitment of the Government of Spain. Thus, together with the stabilization of more than 67,000 professionals, today we adopt a new legal framework for the reduction of temporality. And it is thanks to the leadership of Pedro Sánchez, no doubt, Mrs Oramas. The Government of Spain leads and takes the step. Thank you, Minister, because it seems here that there are those who cannot bear it. Mrs Velasco, 200 of whom remained 93, most of whom were difficult to cover, you should know. You also talk about the competences of the autonomous communities. I'm very sorry to tell you, but you're missing the truth. Competition is state, although it is true that it is better to exercise it according to the autonomous communities. You use argumentary resources. You could have done it, you ruled seven years. They spent the time of the BOE, but now we have, it has been done by a progressive government and a coalition government. You've had your time, and you've never done anything. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, Madam spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party, we are increasing specialized health training. Do you know what you did? You've been reducing it year after year. The Government of Spain is leading and taking the lead, but I will tell you one thing. Do you remember Rajoy's Royal Decree Law 16/2012, which implemented the copayos to the most vulnerable and with which they broke the universality of the system? The most precarious was born with this royal decree and also with the freezing of the replenishment rate of the People's Party. So this is the situation that you created and that Pedro Sánchez solves. I would also like to tell you that the Community directive on fixed-term employment is from 2009. Since 2009, seven years of People's Party governments have passed, and this progressive government is the one that has been determined to address temporality. Mrs Gorospe, it was this government that had to address comprehensive reforms with determination. It has had to wait for the parliamentary process of Law 20/2021 itself. The normative text goes before the bodies of the Inter-Territorial Council of the National Health System. This is what the Autonomous Communities are asking for. The government has to tell you it's been diligent. This measure, together with the stabilization process, responds to temporality and is a measure which, with the adoption of the new legal framework, prevents a high temporality from occurring again. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a historic measure promoted by the Government of Pedro Sánchez with the Royal Decree Law 14/2021 which has given rise to Law 20/2021, Mr VOX spokesman. It is a measure committed to Europe in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan in component 11, as well as in component 18, to make the functioning of public administrations more efficient. Ladies and gentlemen, every vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree law is a yes to the stability and quality of the employment of health personnel at all levels of the public system and also in primary care. [[Applauds]] This reaffirms our commitment to them and them, to those health care providers whom we will not tire of thanking for their enormous public service in our society, especially during this pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Pedro Sánchez is a government focused on protecting citizens, working for families and businesses; a government that prioritizes health protection; a government that, despite the wishes of the People's Party, is internationally recognized for high vaccination coverage against COVID and for the management of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is working for the social majority, to protect the quality of life of the middle classes and their well-being, as well as the most vulnerable. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the crisis caused by COVID and the war in Ukraine, the Government has articulated a study that has protected millions of jobs through ERTS and saved thousands of businesses through ICO credits. In spite of the offensive of the People's Party - which was certainly rejected by Brussels - the Government has obtained European funds for the reconstruction of our country, has made it possible for 400,000 domestic workers to be able to take up unemployment, has raised the inter-professional minimum wage, has revalued pensions to the same extent as it increases the cost of living and not the smallest 0.25 % proposed by Rajoy, has brought forward the labour reform and today we find that membership of Social Security is over 20 million people, has mobilized up to 30 billion euros to combat inflation and protect the middle and working class. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u316	Look for something similar in the governments of the People's Party. They can't find him, can they? It is impossible to find him, because his response to the crisis was precariousness and cuts. The greatest precariousness was born with the royal decree law that I mentioned previously, the Royal Decree law 16/2012. As the president drops taxes to light, do you know what the Popular Party of Nuñez Feijoo is doing in Galicia? Well, raise your taxes to the water. [[Applauds]] Do you know that in Madrid, the Popular Party of Nuñez Feijóo closes the emergency room for more than half a million Madridns and Madridns? To this end, the response of this Government is such as those we are debating today, which enable the capacity of the National Health System to be strengthened and the working conditions of its professionals to be improved. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the greatest stabilization of temporary staff in the history of the National Health System since its creation and establishes a new regulatory framework that protects health professionals.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u317	Mrs. Prieto, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u318	I'm on my way, President. They are common criteria agreed with the autonomous communities and a reform that is negotiated with the most representative trade unions in the sector. You have at least 67,000 reasons to vote yes. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government will continue to work and do its utmost to ensure that citizens continue to make progress. Thank you, minister, and thank you to the ministry team. Thank you very much and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u319	Thank you, Mrs. Prieto. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, we started with the votes. General policy debate on the state of the nation. Communication from the Government for the general policy debate on the state of the nation. Motions for resolutions by the VOX Group. Proposal 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 50 plus 2 telematics votes, 52; against, 273 plus 11 telematics votes, 284; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u321	The proposal was rejected. Proposal 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 50 plus 2 telematics votes, 52; against, 283 plus 11 telematics votes, 294.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u322	The proposal was rejected. Proposal 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 345 votes in favour, 50 plus 2 votes in favour, 52; 281 plus 11 votes in favour, 292; abstentions, 1
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u323	The proposal was rejected. Proposal 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 59 plus 2 by telephone, 61; against, 185 plus 7 by telephone, 192; abstentions, 89 plus 4 by telephone, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u324	The proposal was rejected. Motion for a resolution by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; 149 plus 6 telematics votes, 155; 130 plus 4 telematics votes, 134; abstentions, 53 plus 3 telematics votes, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u325	The proposal was adopted. [[Applauds]] Motion for a resolution 6 by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 51 plus 2 telematics votes, 53; against, 282 plus 11 telematics votes, 293.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u326	The proposal was rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. Proposal 7 incorporating amendments 91 of the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress and 104 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 253 in favour, 11 in favour, 264 in favour, 2 against, 78 in favour, 2 in favour, 80 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u327	The proposal was adopted. Proposal 8 in the terms of compromise amendment 1 of the Socialist and Joint Parliamentary Groups, Mr Gimeno. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 306 in favour, 13 in favour, 319 in favour, abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u328	The proposal was adopted. Motion for a resolution 9 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in the terms of compromise amendment 2 of the VOX and Joint parliamentary groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 147 plus 6 telematics votes, 153; against, 148 plus 4 telematics votes, 152; abstentions, 38 plus 3 telematics votes, 41.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u329	The motion for a resolution was adopted. [[Applauds]] Motions for resolutions by the VOX Group. Proposal 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 50 plus 2 telematics votes, 52; against, 283 plus 11 telematics votes, 294.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u330	The proposal was rejected. Proposal 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 51 plus 2 telematics votes, 53; against, 282 plus 11 telematics votes, 293.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u331	The proposal was rejected. Proposal 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 plus 13 votes, 346; 51 plus 2 telematics votes, 53; 196 plus 7 telematics votes, 203; abstentions, 86 plus 4 telematics votes, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u332	The proposal was rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Basque Parliamentary Group Proposal 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 in favour, 63 with 3 votes in favour, 66 against, 266 with 10 votes in favour, 276 with 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u333	It's rejected. Proposal 14 incorporating Amendment 106 from the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; 185 plus 7 telematics votes, 192; 148 plus 6 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u334	The proposal was adopted. Proposal 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 62 plus 3 votes in favour, 65 in favour, 263 plus 10 votes in favour, 273; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u335	The proposal was rejected. Proposal 16. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 63 plus 3 telematics votes, 66; against, 175 plus 6 telematics votes, 181; abstentions, 94 plus 4 telematics votes, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u336	The proposal was rejected. Proposal 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; 63 plus 3 by telephone, 66; 257 plus 10 by telephone, 267; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u337	The proposal was rejected. Proposal 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telematics, 346 by telematics, 281 by telematics, 292 by telematics, 1 by Abstentions, 51 by telematics, 53 by telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u338	It's approved. Proposal 19 in the terms of transactional amendment 3 of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and Basque [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 124 plus 4 by telephone, 128; against, 127 plus 4 by telephone, 131; abstentions, 82 plus 5 by telephone, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u339	It's rejected. Proposal 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telematics, 346; 161 by telematics, 6 by telematics, 167; 157 by telematics, 164; abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u340	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Proposal 21. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 135 plus 4 telematics votes, 139; against, 147 plus 7 telematics votes, 154; abstentions, 51 plus 2 telematics votes, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u341	It's rejected. Proposal 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 246 plus 8 telematics votes, 254; against, 51 plus 2 telematics votes, 53; abstentions, 36 plus 3 telematics votes, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u342	It's approved. Proposal 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 13 by telephone, 344; in favour, 269 plus 11 by telephone, 280; against, 49 plus 2 by telephone, 51; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u343	It's approved. Proposal 24. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; 282 plus 11 telematics votes, 293; 50 plus 2 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u344	It's approved. Proposal 25. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 270 plus 11 by telephone, 281; against, 50 plus 2 by telephone, 52; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u345	It's approved. Proposal 26. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 49 plus 3 votes in favour, 52 against, 265 plus 10 votes in favour, 275; abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u346	It's rejected. Proposal 27. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 79 plus 3 by telephone, 82; against, 253 plus 10 by telephone, 263; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u347	It's rejected. Proposal 28. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 51 plus 2 telematics votes, 53; against, 194 plus 7 telematics votes, 201; abstentions, 87 plus 4 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u348	It's rejected. Proposal 29. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 53 plus 2 telematics votes, 55; against, 184 plus 7 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 96 plus 4 telematics votes, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u349	It's rejected. Proposal 30. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 51 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, 53 in favour, 273 in favour, 11 votes in favour, 284 in favour, abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u350	It's rejected. Proposal 31. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 49 plus 2 by telephone, 51; against, 284 plus 11 by telephone, 295.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u351	It's rejected. Proposal 32. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 49 plus 2 votes in favour, 51 against, 283 plus 11 votes in favour, 294; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u352	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván, Mrs Sabanes Nadal and Mr Baldoví Roda. Proposal 33. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 58 plus 3 telematics votes, 61; against, 127 plus 4 telematics votes, 131; abstentions, 148 plus 6 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u353	It's rejected. Proposal 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 53 plus 3 telematics votes, 56; against, 278 plus 10 telematics votes, 288; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u354	It's rejected. Proposal 35. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 58 plus 3 votes in favour, 61 against, 265 plus 10 votes in favour, 275; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u355	It's rejected. Proposal 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 54 plus 3 telematics votes, 57; against, 128 plus 4 telematics votes, 132; abstentions, 151 plus 6 telematics votes, 157.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u356	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the VOX Group. Proposal 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 51 plus 2 telematics votes, 53; against, 186 plus 7 telematics votes, 193; abstentions, 96 plus 4 telematics votes, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u357	It's rejected. Proposal 38. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 49 plus 2 votes in favour, 51 against, 283 plus 11 votes in favour, 294; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u358	It's rejected. Motion for a resolution 39 by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 in favour, 53 with 3 votes in favour, 56 against, 275 with 10 votes in favour, 285 with 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u359	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys and Mr Botran Pahissa. Proposal 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 22 in favour, 306 in favour, 13 in favour, 319 in favour, 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u360	It's rejected. Proposal 41. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 19 against, 276 in favour, 10 in favour, 286 in favour, 38 in favour and 3 in favour, 41 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u361	It's rejected. Proposal 42. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 12 in favour, 281 in favour and 10 in favour, 291 in favour, 40 in favour and 3 in favour, 43.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u362	It's rejected. Motion for a resolution 43 by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 23 against, 276 in favour, 10 in favour, 286 in favour, 34 in favour, 3 in favour, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u363	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. Proposal 44. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 305 in favour, 13 in favour, 318 in favour, abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u364	It's approved. Proposal 45. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telephone, 346; 258 by telephone, 11 by telephone, 269; abstentions, 75 by telephone, 2 by telephone, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u365	It's approved. Motions for resolutions by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Pérez and Mrs Oramas GonzálezMoro. Proposal 46. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 152 plus 6 telematics votes, 158; against, 115 plus 4 telematics votes, 119; abstentions, 66 plus 3 telematics votes, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u366	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Proposal 47. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 13 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 47 plus 3 telematics votes, 50; against, 262 plus 10 telematics votes, 272; abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u367	It's rejected. Proposal 48. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 116 plus 4 by telephone, 120; against, 165 plus 6 by telephone, 171; abstentions, 52 plus 3 by telephone, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u368	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Proposal 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 14 in favour, 282 in favour and 10 in favour, 292 in favour, 37 in favour and 3 in favour, 40 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u369	It's rejected. Proposal 50. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 16 in favour, 260 in favour and 10 in favour, 270 in favour, 57 in favour and 3 in favour, 60 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u370	It's rejected. Proposal 51. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 7 against, 286 in favour, 10 in favour, 296 in favour, 40 in favour, 3 in favour, 43.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u371	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Proposal 52. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 11 in favour, 273 in favour and 11 in favour, 284 in favour, 49 in favour and 2 in favour, 51 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u372	It's rejected. Proposal 53. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 10 in favour, 317 in favour, 330 in favour, 6 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u373	It's rejected. Proposal 54, incorporating amendment 96 of the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 149 plus 6 telematics votes, 155; against, 173 plus 7 telematics votes, 180; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u374	It's rejected. Proposal 55. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 147 in favour, 6 in favour, 153 in favour, 185 in favour, 7 in favour, 192 in favour, abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u375	It's rejected. Proposal 56. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 149 plus 6 by telephone, 155; against, 181 plus 7 by telephone, 188; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u376	It's rejected. Proposal 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 65 plus 2 telematics votes, 67; against, 128 plus 4 telematics votes, 132; abstentions, 140 plus 7 telematics votes, 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u377	It's rejected. Proposal 58. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 202 plus 9 by telephone, 211; against, 120 plus 4 by telephone, 124; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u378	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Proposal 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 12 in favour, 267 in favour, 11 in favour, 278 in favour, 54 in favour and 2 in favour, 56 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u379	It's rejected. Proposal 60. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 56 plus 3 telematics votes, 59; against, 186 plus 6 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 91 plus 4 telematics votes, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u380	It's rejected. Proposal 61. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 60 plus 2 by telephone, 62; against, 179 plus 7 by telephone, 186; abstentions, 94 plus 4 by telephone, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u381	It's rejected. Proposal 62. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 148 plus 6 by telephone, 154; against, 173 plus 7 by telephone, 180; abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u382	It's rejected. Proposal 63, incorporating amendments 52 of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and 113 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; 169 plus 7 telematics votes, 176; against 63 plus 2 telematics votes, 65; abstentions, 101 plus 4 telematics votes, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u383	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Proposal 64. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 11 in favour, 183 in favour, 7 in favour, 190 in favour, 139 in favour and 6 in favour, 145 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u384	It's rejected. Proposal 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 12 in favour, 181 in favour, 7 in favour, 188 in favour, 140 in favour and 6 in favour, 146 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u385	It's rejected. Proposal 66. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 votes in favour, 11 against, 185 plus 7 votes in favour, 192 abstentions, 137 plus 6 votes in favour, 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u386	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López and Mr García Adanero. Proposal 67. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 148 plus 6 telematics votes, 154; against, 178 plus 7 telematics votes, 185; abstentions 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u387	It's rejected. Proposal 68, incorporating amendment 99 of the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 148 plus 6 by telephone, 154; against, 182 plus 7 by telephone, 189; abstentions 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u388	It's rejected. Proposal 69. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 13 by telephone, 345; in favour, 148 plus 6 by telephone, 154; against, 168 plus 7 by telephone, 175; abstentions 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u389	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. Proposal 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 34 in favour, 299 in favour and 13 in favour, 312.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u390	It's rejected. Proposal 71. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346; 26 in favour; 294 against 13 with 307; 13 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u391	It's rejected. Proposal 72. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 27 against, 237 in favour, 11 in favour, 248 in favour, 69 in favour and 2 in favour, 71 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u392	It's rejected. Proposal 73. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; 216 plus 7 telematics votes, 223; against 115 plus 4 telematics votes, 119; abstentions, 1 plus 2 telematics votes, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u393	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Proposal 74. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 votes in favour, 31 against, 295 votes in favour, 308 votes against, 7 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u394	It's rejected. Proposal 75. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 22 in favour, 233 in favour, 11 in favour, 244 in favour, 76 in favour and 2 in favour, 78 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u395	It's rejected. Proposal 76. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 35 in favour, 292 in favour and 13 in favour, 305 in favour, 6 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u396	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Proposal 77. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 54 plus 3 by telephone, 57; against, 272 plus 10 by telephone, 282; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u397	It's rejected. Proposal 78. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 votes in favour, 53 with 3 votes in favour, 56 against, 279 with 10 votes in favour, 289 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u398	It's rejected. Proposal 79. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; 55 plus 3 telematics votes, 58; 219 plus 8 telematics votes, 227; abstentions, 58 plus 2 telematics votes, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u399	It's rejected. Proposal 80, incorporating amendment 125 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 votes in favour, 54 with 3 votes in favour, 57 against, 275 with 10 votes in favour, 285 with 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u400	It's rejected. Proposal 81. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 40 plus 3 votes in favour, 43 against, 269 plus 10 votes in favour, 279; abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u401	It's rejected. Proposal 82, incorporating amendments 22 from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and 74 from the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 votes in favour, 54 with 3 votes in favour, 57 against, 275 with 10 votes in favour, 285 with 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u402	It's rejected. Proposal 83. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 153 plus 7 by telephone, 160; against, 142 plus 6 by telephone, 148; abstentions, 38.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u403	It's approved. Proposal 84, incorporating Amendments 75 and 76 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 in favour, 175 with 7 votes in favour, 182 against, 147 with 6 votes in favour, 153 with 11 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u404	It's approved. Proposal 85, in the terms of the compromise amendment 4 of the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Republican and Euskal Herria Bildu. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 in favour, 169 with 7 votes in favour, 176 against, 151 with 6 votes in favour, 157 with 13 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u405	It's approved. Proposal 86. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 52 plus 3 by telephone, 55; against, 274 plus 10 by telephone, 284; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u406	It's rejected. Proposal 87, incorporating Amendment No 5 of the Plural Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 53 plus 3 telematics votes, 56; against, 279 plus 10 telematics votes, 289.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u407	It's rejected. Proposal 88. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 70 plus 5 telematics votes, 75; against, 122 plus 4 telematics votes, 126; abstentions, 141 plus 4 telematics votes, 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u408	It's rejected. Proposal 89, incorporating amendment 77 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 63 plus 3 by telephone, 66; against, 262 plus 10 by telephone, 272; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u409	It's rejected. Proposal 90, with amendment 78 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 64 plus 3 telematics votes, 67; against, 219 plus 8 telematics votes, 227; abstentions, 50 plus 2 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u410	It's rejected. Proposal 91, incorporating amendment 79 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 58 plus 3 telematics votes, 61; against, 258 plus 10 telematics votes, 268; abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u411	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Euskal Herria Bildu, Republican and Plural Parliamentary Groups, Mr Rego Candaimil. Proposal 92. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 61 plus 3 telematics votes, 64; against, 266 plus 10 telematics votes, 276; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u412	It's rejected. Proposal 93. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 23 against, 303 votes in favour, 316 in favour, 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u413	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Proposal 94. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 31 against, 266 in favour, 10 in favour, 276 in favour, 36 in favour, 3 in favour, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u414	It's rejected. Proposal 95. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 67 plus 3 votes in favour, 70; 263 plus 10 votes in favour, 273; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u415	It's rejected. Proposal 96. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 votes in favour, 57 with 3 votes in favour, 60 against, 269 with 10 votes in favour, 279 with 7 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u416	It's rejected. Proposal 97. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 60 plus 3 votes in favour, 63 against, 269 plus 10 votes in favour, 279; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u417	It's rejected. Proposal 98, incorporating Amendment 115 of the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 156 plus 4 by telephone, 160; against, 87 plus 4 by telephone, 91; abstentions, 90 plus 5 by telephone, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u418	It's approved. Proposal 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 25 in favour, 265 in favour and 10 in favour, 275 in favour, 43 in favour and 3 in favour, 46.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u419	It's rejected. Proposal 100. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telematics, 346; 271 plus 7 by telematics, 278; 9 plus 4 by telematics, 13; abstentions, 53 plus 2 by telematics, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u420	It's approved. Proposal 101. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 61 plus 3 telematics votes, 64; against, 263 plus 10 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u421	It's rejected. Proposal 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 58 plus 3 by telephone, 61; against, 273 plus 10 by telephone, 283; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u422	It's rejected. Motion for a resolution by the parliamentary groups Euskal Herria Bildu and Republican. Proposal 103. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 54 plus 3 by telephone, 57; against, 260 plus 10 by telephone, 270; abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u423	It's rejected. Proposal 104. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 27 against, 276 in favour, 10 in favour, 286 in favour, 30 in favour, 3 in favour, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u424	It's rejected. Proposal 105. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 70 plus 3 by telephone, 73; against, 252 plus 10 by telephone, 262; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u425	It's rejected. Proposal 106. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 in favour, 61 with 3 votes in favour, 64 against, 266 with 10 votes in favour, 276 with 6 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u426	It's rejected. Proposal 107. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 28 against, 305 in favour, 318 in favour, 318 in favour and 13 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u427	It's rejected. Proposal 108. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] When the vote was taken, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 67 plus 3 telematics votes, 70; against, 266 plus 10 telematics votes, 276.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u428	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Socialist Group. Proposal 109. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telematics, 346 by telematics; 183 by telematics, 7 by telematics, 193 by telematics, 4 by Abstentions, 143 by telematics and 6 by telematics, 149 by telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u429	It's approved. Proposal 110, incorporating Amendment 23 of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 in favour, 178 with 7 votes in favour, 185 against, 4 abstentions, 151 with 6 votes in favour, 157.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u430	It's approved. Proposal 111. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] When the vote was taken, the voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telematics, 346; 162 by telematics plus 7 by telematics, 169; 141 by telematics plus 6 by telematics, 147; abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u431	It's approved. Proposal 112, incorporating Amendment 25 of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; 189 plus 7 telematics votes, 196; against 52 plus 2 telematics votes, 54; abstentions, 92 plus 4 telematics votes, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u432	It's approved. Proposal 113, incorporating Amendments 81 and 82 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; 179 plus 7 telematics votes, 186; 64 plus 2 telematics votes, 66; abstentions, 90 plus 4 telematics votes, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u433	It's approved. Proposal 114, incorporating amendments 6 of the Plural Parliamentary Group and 83 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 172 plus 7 by telephone, 179; against, 148 plus 6 by telephone, 154; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u434	It's approved. Proposal 115, incorporating amendments 84 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 187 plus 7 telematics votes, 194; against, 50 plus 2 telematics votes, 52; abstentions, 96 plus 4 telematics votes, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u435	It's approved. Proposal 116. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; 189 plus 7 telematics votes, 196; 87 plus 4 telematics votes, 91; abstentions, 56 plus 2 telematics votes, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u436	It's approved. Proposal 117. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; 175 plus 7 telematics votes, 182; 137 plus 6 telematics votes, 143; abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u437	It's approved. Proposal 118, in the terms of compromise amendment 5 of the Socialist and Citizens' Parliamentary Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telematics, 346; 164 by telematics, 7 by telematics, 171; against, 18; abstentions, 151 by telematics, 157.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u438	It's approved. Proposal 119, incorporating amendment 86 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 345 in favour, 172 in favour, 7 in favour, 179 in favour, 9 in favour, 151 in favour and 6 in favour, 157 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u439	It's approved. Proposal 120, incorporating amendment 135 of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; 175 plus 7 telematics votes, 182; against 95 plus 4 telematics votes, 99; abstentions, 62 plus 2 telematics votes, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u440	It's approved. Proposal 121. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telematics, 346; 167 by telematics plus 7 by telematics, 174; 136 by telematics plus 6 by telematics, 142; abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u441	It's approved. Proposal 122. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 179 plus 7 by telephone, 186; against, 104 plus 4 by telephone, 108; abstentions, 50 plus 2 by telephone, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u442	It's approved. Proposal 123, incorporating amendment 103 of the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 255 in favour, 10 in favour, 265 in favour, 3 plus 1 in favour, 4 in favour, 75 plus 2 in favour, 77 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u443	It's approved. Motions for resolutions by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Proposal 124. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 101 plus 4 telematics votes, 105; against, 178 plus 7 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 54 plus 2 telematics votes, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u444	It's rejected. Proposal 125. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telematics, 346; 160 by telematics, 6 by telematics, 166; 158 by telematics, 165; abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u445	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Proposal 126. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 98 plus 4 telematics votes, 102; against, 184 plus 7 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 51 plus 2 telematics votes, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u446	It's rejected. Proposal 127. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telematics, 346; 114 by telematics, 4 by telematics, 118; 215 by telematics, 224; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u447	It's rejected. Proposal 128, incorporating Amendment 119 from the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 216 plus 6 telematics votes, 222; against, 63 plus 5 telematics votes, 68; abstentions, 53 plus 2 telematics votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u448	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Proposal 129. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 149 plus 6 telematics votes, 155; against, 183 plus 7 telematics votes, 190.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u449	It's rejected. Proposal 130. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 146 plus 6 telematics votes, 152; against, 184 plus 7 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u450	It's rejected. Proposal 131. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; 217 plus 8 telematics votes, 225; 67 plus 3 telematics votes, 70; abstentions, 49 plus 2 telematics votes, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u451	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Proposal 132. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 140 plus 6 by telephone, 146; against, 177 plus 7 by telephone, 184; abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u452	It's rejected. Proposal 133. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 13 telematics votes, 345; 152 plus 6 telematics votes, 158; 171 plus 7 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u453	It's rejected. Proposal 134, incorporating Amendment 45 from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 100 plus 4 telematics votes, 104; against, 180 plus 7 telematics votes, 187; abstentions, 53 plus 2 telematics votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u454	It's rejected. Proposal 135. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 13 by telephone, 344; in favour, 152 plus 6 by telephone, 158; against, 171 plus 7 by telephone, 178; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u455	It's rejected. Proposal 136. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 146 plus 6 by telephone, 152; against, 183 plus 7 by telephone, 190; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u456	It's rejected. Proposal 137. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 145 in favour, 6 in favour, 151 in favour, 180 in favour, 7 in favour, 187 in favour, 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u457	It's rejected. Proposal 138. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 333 plus 13 by telephone, 346; in favour, 170 plus 6 by telephone, 176; against, 160 plus 7 by telephone, 167; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u458	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u459	Ladies and gentlemen, we moved on to committee opinions on legislative initiatives. Vote on the opinion of the Democratic Memory Bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 13 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 166 plus 7 telematics votes, 173; against, 153 plus 6 telematics votes, 159; abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u460	It was adopted. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that from the rostrum you cannot make any demonstration. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u461	Direct and read-only processing of legislative initiatives. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is little left, I beg you for a little silence, please. Mr. Homer, you too. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Quiet, please! Overall vote on the proposal for an Organic Law amending article 570 bis of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, for processing in one reading and having the initiative of an organic nature, with the incorporation of the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes to 13 with 346 in favour, 180 with 7 in favour, 187 against, 146 with 6 in favour, 152 in favour, abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u462	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u463	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 11/2022 of 25 June, adopting and extending certain measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, to address situations of social and economic vulnerability, and to the economic and social recovery of the island of Palma. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 13 by telephone, 345; in favour, 179 plus 7 by telephone, 186; against, 49 plus 2 by telephone, 51; abstentions, 104 plus 4 by telephone, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u464	It's validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on this request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 324 in favour, 13 in favour, 337 in favour, 2 against, 7 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u465	It is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 12/2022 OF 5 JULY, AMENDING LAW 55/2003 OF 16 DECEMBER ON THE FRAMEWORK STATUS OF THE STAFF OF HEALTH SERVICES [[File number 130/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u466	Royal Decree-Law No. 12/2022 of 5 July 2003 amending Law No. 55/2003 of 16 December 2003 on the Framework Staff Regulations for Health Services. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 345 in favour, 259 in favour, 11 in favour, 270 in favour, 73 in favour, 2 in favour, 75 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u467	It's validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on this request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] When the vote was taken, the voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 13 by telephone, 346; 153 votes in favour, 6 by telephone, 159; 178 votes against, 7 by telephone, 185; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-14-CD220714.u468	It is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, having concluded the regular session and this special plenary session, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to wish, to those who can and when can, that they have a few days off. Thank you so much. The meeting rose. [[Applauds]] It was eight and thirty minutes of the night.
