ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. We begin with the single item on the agenda, on the opinion of the Proposal for an organic law transposing European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union and for the reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorder and smuggling of dual-use weapons. I would like to inform you that from now until 4 p.m. today - i.e. for forty-five minutes - the amendments to this opinion, which will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of this debate, can be voted on by telematics. In view of its organic nature, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, in compliance with this regulatory provision, he announced that the vote would not take place before 4.30 p.m. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u2	I am asking for the floor under Rule 72(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, pursuant to which I requested the reading of Article 166 of the Constitution. This is because two parliamentary groups in this House have submitted their appeals to the Constitutional Court on the understanding that Amendments 61 and 62 incorporated into the text of the proposed law which is intended to be debated in this plenary imply a spurious reform of the provisions of Article 159.3 of the Constitution, so that the court is urged to take very precautionary measures. [[rumors]] It therefore requested that this plenary should be postponed until the Constitutional Court had ruled on these very precautionary measures. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u4	Article 166 of the Constitution states that the constitutional reform initiative shall be carried out in accordance with the terms of Article 87(1) and (2), which is precisely why we call for the suspension of this plenary until the Constitutional Court is determined on the very precautionary measures that the People's Party and the VOX Parliamentary Group have requested. [[Applause from the VOX Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u5	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Mrs. Arrimadas García calls for the floor]] Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u6	Under Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to speak on a point of order, to denounce various irregularities that are taking place in today's plenary session. Today it is intended to adopt amendments to three organic laws through proposals of law of the groups, which are not draft laws, do not have the mandatory reports of the consultative bodies, is done with urgency, without appearances, is intended to adopt amendments that have nothing to do with the original text of the laws and is done even by questioning the work of the Constitutional Court which, of course, can decide on this. [[Rumors]] Therefore, Madam President, I ask you to suspend the plenary because the Bureau has not even resolved a review paper tabled by my group. Therefore, the least I ask you to do is to meet the Bureau as President of the Congress, to resolve this review paper and, in any case, not to hold this plenary until the appeals that are submitted to the Constitutional Court are resolved. I'm telling you the same thing I told Mrs. Forcadell in 2017, Mrs. Batet, don't allow this. [[protests]] [[Rumors.-Applause from the parliamentary groups Citizens, VOX and Popular in Congress.- Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u7	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u8	Thank you, President. It called for action under Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, also on a matter of serious concern - I believe - to the fundamental rights of Members. It is intended to reform through this proposal of law three organic laws, some of them through the sole and exclusive processing of an amendment of addition that does not affect the rest of the text. Throughout this process, the rights of Members of this parliamentary group have been called for, and so far not even the internal resolution of the proceedings in this House of that amparo to which we referred has been resolved. Therefore, a debate and a vote should not begin in plenary when the previous procedures have not yet resolved some issues affecting the fundamental rights of Members. [[Greetings from the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX and Citizens.-A lady MP: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I shall be oblivious to personal comparisons, because I do not think that we can make this a personal issue. [[Rumors]] Several speakers have raised a number of issues. Firstly, the Congress of Deputies has not been formally informed either of an appeal or of any decision taken by the Constitutional Court in this regard, and therefore there is no reason and no obstacle to continue the legislative procedure envisaged, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. [[Mr. Sánchez García: It's notorious]] [[Mr. Sánchez García: It's notorious]] [[Mr. SánchezGarcia: It's notorious and you know it.-Rumors]] I would ask you to remain silent, please, and respect the House and the Presidency. Secondly, it has been suggested that some parliamentary groups have indeed submitted reviews of Bureau decisions. That has happened many times and this debate has already taken place on numerous occasions in the Board of Spokesmen. That debate has also taken place this week and, as you all know, the presentation of reviews is not suspensive in the legislative procedure. Therefore, in defense of parliamentary autonomy, in defense of legislative power... [[protests]] [[Applauds]] Quiet, please. I repeat, in defence of the legislative power of this House and also in defence of the procedure and the debate, which responds only to a deliberative democracy and to the legislative power to uphold that constitutionally established function, we will continue with the legally convened plenary and therefore continue with the scheduled agenda. [[rumors and protests]] Thank you so much. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause from the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.-The ladies and gentlemen of the VOX parliamentary group leave the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative, I have the floor, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García. [[Rumors]] Mr. Gonzalez, I'm asking you to be quiet, please. If you're not talking to me, I hear you perfectly. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. There's a deputy who's waiting in the rostrum to take the floor, I'm asking for silence. Mrs. Arrimadas, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u10	Thank you, Madam President. We are reliving what many of us suffered in September 2017. [[Rumors]] This is the first time it's going to happen in Congress, but it's not the first time it's going to happen in Spain. [[applause]] This is not the first time it has been produced in Spain! [[Applauds]] The Spanish government is repeating what separatism did in 2017. [[Rumors]] They're going to pass clearly unconstitutional laws... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u12	...as it is to make a penal code to the measure of four offenders in forty-eight hours and violating all procedures. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: A shame]] They are going to amend three organic laws whose amendments have been introduced in this Parliament not as draft laws, which require mandatory reports, but as proposals for legislation, in order to escape the democratic control of our country. They are going to try to change the law of the only one to tell the judges how they have to apply it and interpret it by urgent procedure and without appearances. They want to do things as they were done in 2017, voting here at twelve o'clock in the evening, in the midst of parties and bridges so that the Spaniards don't know; maneuvering so that the Constitutional Court doesn't give him time to solve his appeals; attacking the Constitutional Court by members of the government, saying that what is approved in a parliament cannot be questioned by the Constitutional Court. It's the same thing separatism did in 2017. [[Applauds]] They're the same arguments. What Puigdemont and Junqueras said is now said by Spanish ministers. [[Applauds]] Of course, the Constitutional Court can say something about what is approved in this Parliament. Do you imagine that a law is passed here that eliminates the right to health or education in Spain? Can you imagine the Constitutional Court saying nothing? Do you imagine that a law - with the majority you have - is now being passed here to, for example, pass the death penalty? You think the Constitutional Court couldn't say anything? Of course, the Constitutional Court can question what is approved in this Parliament if it violates fundamental principles of our rule of law. I thought that this should only be explained to the Presidents of the Generalitat, but I am surprised to have to explain it to a President of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Shame on you! It is true that Sánchez has ended the process, because everyone knows that the process was a movement of the Catalan separatist government to attack Spain, but what we now have is a new process, faster, more serious, more damaging and more humiliating for the Catalan constitutionalists, because it comes from the Spanish government itself. Because what they did and tried since separatism in 2017 now they do from the government. And what happened? As the police acted, the Supreme Court acted, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the constitutionalist opposition and many public servants of different institutions acted. The great drama is that all these institutions, which defended us in 2017 from separatism, now have to defend us from the Government of Spain. That's the drama we have in our country. [[Applauds]] When a ruler has no scruples, his government's abuses have no limits. And how far will the Government of Spain go? Impossible to know, because they have done all that they had refused to do: they refused to make a pact with the separatists, and go if they agreed; they denied forgiving, and go if they pardoned them; they refused to remove the sedition, and go if they removed it; they refused to reduce the embezzlement, and now stealing is easier if it is to break Spain and if you are friends with Pedro Sánchez; they denied that they were going to talk about a referendum, and they are already open to it. It may be true that separatism will not have to re-declarate independence, because the Spanish Government will eventually de facto declare itself. The next manual that Pedro Sánchez is going to write is going to be the manual of independence The government of Sánchez has done more in three years for separatism than all that the nationalist parties have done in forty years, and all for the worst reason, that of a few armchairs. [[Applauds]] Separatists do this because they hate Spain, but you do this because you love power; that's why you do it and that's why it's bad what you're doing. And I cannot appeal to his conscience, because the rulers who are able to do these things are unable to repent for them. But this will have a cost, because today it is the origin of many serious problems that we are going to have in our country. This is a moment, unfortunately, historical, that will be analyzed, and - eye!- The whole Socialist Party is responsible for this, because all the socialist militants and positions that today are scandalized, ashamed and worried, but they still keep quiet or, if they speak, do not act, they are so responsible for what is going on like Pedro Sánchez. Responsibility in historical times is solidarity and at such serious times there is responsibility for action and omission. We must use all the democratic tools that we have at our disposal, because it is no longer about what we are going to say to Pedro Sánchez - if we have already told him everything!-, this is about what we do to stop Pedro Sánchez democratically, and here we must use all democratic tools. That is why I ask the leader of the opposition, Mr. Feijoo, to present a motion of censure, because we have to use all... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u14	... the democratic tools that the opposition has while the government uses all anti-democratic channels. I want to end a direct appeal to the Spaniards. To every Spanish proud to be so, to every Spanish satisfied with what we have built together, to every Spanish that values union, democracy and freedom in our country, to every Spanish that is scandalized with the government of Pedro Sánchez I tell you that democratically we will stop you, but we need you all. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I intervene to explain in telegraphic form - a little more than a minute for such a complex and important matter - the position of the BNG. The BNG is in favour of reforming the crime of embezzlement to undo the 2015 ad hoc reform of the People's Party, which made a political use of this crime in order to pursue the discrepancy. We are in favour, because we do not want that use to be made, but at the same time we also want it to be possible to do so with absolute legal certainty and not to prevent the corrupt from paying their sentences. That is why we are also in favour of stricter regulation of the crime of illicit enrichment, because it seems to us to be excessively lax, both in its minimum threshold - EUR 250 000 - and in the definition of who it can be applied to. We believe that more force is needed in the face of corruption. Obviously, the BNG is in favour of repealing the sedition offence. We believe that this is a minimum democratic requirement. We are in favour of repealing the sedition offence because we believe that it is unreasonable to keep it at this stage and because, moreover, an absolutely undemocratic political use is being made of justice, as we have seen in recent years. But we cannot and cannot vote for a modification of the public disorders that aggravates them and that will make it possible to criminalize and penalize popular mobilization and social protest, a new regulation that will make it possible to make wider and more extensive use of the repression of popular mobilizations and the persecution - even with prison sentences - of forms of social protest, which allowed us to win rights and which allow us to maintain those rights, even to move towards new ones. At that point there is a fundamental discrepancy of the BNG, which unfortunately...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u17	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u18	...will condition our final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u19	For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u20	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today we are dealing with the final stage of the amendment of the Criminal Code, with the title of adapting it to the European penal system. In this area we have already announced at the time that we are happy with the elimination of the crime of sedition. It was necessary for this crime to disappear from the Criminal Code in order to equate legislation, in the exercise of fundamental rights, with the European Union, but some of the PeCAT amendments that remain alive in this proposal relate to the technical improvement of what has become a worsening of the crime of public disorder and to the fact that some concepts, such as intimidation or the way in which certain conduct is described, may have a much more precise wording allowing the exercise of fundamental rights. In dealing with this proposal, we too are tabling amendments. In the area of embezzlement - we said at the time - there could not be the same criminal charge as that which involved an illicit enrichment for profit of the authority or public official as that of the one which did not suppose it. Our amendments were on this line. Finally, we have seen that this is the philosophy that has been integrated into the compromise amendments that have been incorporated into the paper. PeCAT also wanted to take advantage of this reform of the Criminal Code to adapt it to the European Union's law, to match criminal legislation, because it seems to us to be a good opportunity to end also some defects of this Criminal Code, such as that it still contains the offence of insulting the Crown or issues such as the loss of the MP's record, for example, by the mere indictment. This organic law that modifies all these issues is an extra opportunity to adapt also poorly regulated situations in Spanish law and that Spain systematically loses in the courts of the European Union. Therefore, the offence of insulting the Crown or the issue of prosecution could be resolved once and for all by taking advantage of this bill. In this sense, many things could be improved, no doubt, but we understand that the new Criminal Code...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u21	Mr. Boadella, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u22	... will be better-term president - than the current drafted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Finally, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u24	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. First, don't talk to us about a democratic coup, don't talk to us about a coup d'état. You Socialists made a coup d'état when you dissolved the Parliament of Catalonia with 155, and this band called the Constitutional Court validated it. [[Protests]] And then, this same band again suspended...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u25	Quiet. Mr Pagès, please respect the constitutional organs of the State for the decorum of the House. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u26	He prevented the investiture of President Puigdemont in January 2018, and you, socialist gentlemen, applaud, and the Squerra lords and the commons were pleased to obey the decision. It is a court that has imposed fines, which has systematically violated the autonomy and inviolability of the Parliament of Catalonia, also at the request of the socialist government. Now, when you catch them up close, you tear your clothes. Less hypocrisy. Who sows winds in Catalonia picks up storms in Madrid. Mr. Rufian, I'm going to ask you a question. According to you, am I a criminal? The members of the electoral union of the referendum the Spanish Prosecutor's Office accused us of misappropriation. Am I a criminal? In accordance with its amendments and the law to be adopted, the Spanish Public Prosecutor's Office may continue to charge it with embezzlement. Is Vice President Junqueras an embezzler for what he did in Economics? Are the counselors Rull or Turull? Are you aware that they're giving Marchena the reason? Are the repression comrades of 2013 and 2018 corrupt Jove, Salvadó, Molons? Mr. Alay? You know who I'm talking about, don't you, Mr. Rufián? He is a gentleman who travels everywhere, not only across Europe, as head of the office of President Puigdemont, working for the independence of Catalonia. Is Alay a corrupt by a few freeway ticks when he was going to Lledoners? Are they criminals Carles Puigdemont, Clara Ponsatí or Toni Comín? [[Some ladies and some honourable Members: Yes! Yes!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u28	If they are, why do they continue to be MEPs? Mr. Asens, are criminals who from the ideology that is manifest themselves and, because they are numerous, cause something as subjective as intimidation? Look, all these people aren't criminals. We're going to vote no to this law because we're not criminals. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Junts per Catalunya has tabled 19 amendments based on European standards of fundamental rights. We have applied these standards to sedition, rebellion, embezzlement, public disorder and freedom of expression, and the same goes for European courts: the referendum was not a crime. Mr Patxi López - it is over -, you said exultant that Catalonia is no longer a problem and that independence is broken. Don't be mistaken, people are there. Some of the representatives of independence have lowered their arms and acknowledged, in exchange for personal solutions, what you asked of them, that the referendum of 2017 was a crime, but this is not over. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u29	Thank you, Mr Pagès. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u30	Mr. Pagès, I'm going to answer you, and I don't care what headlines they do. Do you know who a criminal is? You, no; nor any of those you have said. Luis Enrique Helling, the expert who hired his head of defense. [[Applauds]] This is a criminal. This one is a criminal, and I don't care about the headlines that make their media. I don't care. That's enough! The truth is that I speak with fear that Tejero will enter with toga, because they no longer enter with pistols, but they enter with togas. [[Protests]] Calm down. Seriously, I take Mrs Arrimadas' words very seriously, because the last time she spoke to a Speaker of a Parliament like that was our colleague Carme Forcadell, who ended up in prison. [[Applauds]] The only difference between what's going on today and what happened a few years ago in Catalonia, which is political, is that our partner Carme Forcadell ended up in jail. So, if you think you have to imprison people simply because you don't like what they say or think, you're very wrong. Questions. If this which has been published so much and is going to be approved today benefits the evildoers and the evildoers, why is the right one so angry? If this really benefits the embezzlers, why is the People's Party so angry? Why? It simply recovers the spirit or something from the spirit of the recognized crime before the Rajoy reform of 2015; Rajoy, as you know, adalid from the fight against corruption. [[Applauds]] It is that we live Kafkian moments in this Congress. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing that is happening, however much it is written, is a whim of independence, a blackmail of independence or a desire of Republican Left. It is worth remembering, like it more or like it less - I can get to understand that it likes very little, but there is - that there are two million people who repeatedly in Catalonia, like it more or like it less, vote independent options. And, like it more or like it less - I can get to understand that it likes very little -, there are a total majority, majority, absolute in the Parliament of Catalonia on a recurring basis in favor of this option. [[Applauds]] So, Esquerra Republicana argues that conveying this desire, conveying this desire, conveying this political option is not a crime. It cannot be a crime and, above all, nine people cannot be put in prison for a hundred years, overall, for trying to convey this desire. When you do what you're doing, you're not thinking about generations or past facts, no matter how much you write, you're thinking about generations and present and future facts, because those two million people, that longing, that desire, they get as they go, it's not going to disappear. [[Applauds]] What we are proposing is that we vote; that we vote. We're talking about a referendum. You can't compare Gürtel or Lezo with a referendum on self-determination, no matter how much you don't like to vote. It can't be compared. Is it a crime that a public representative - in fact, puts it in his electoral programme - conveys the desire of the vast majority of citizens in Catalonia? And I'm not talking about them being independent. There is an immense majority of Catalonia's citizens who want to vote who understand that things are not solved by sticks or threats or by putting people in jail. There are many people in Catalonia who want to vote a referendum and who want to vote no, who want to vote no, and we also do politics for them and for them, because we are, above all, democrats. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Oh!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, never again, ever again, must we in this country ever subcontract justice, judges - and also the People's Party - what has to do with us and with us, with politics. Never! We have to legislate so that this will never happen again, so that justice will never again be outsourced to politics. Never again [[Applauds]] And a message to those who are scandalized and scandalized today, people who move according to what the poll says every day, and I refer above all to Spanish progressiveism: when you see the beards of Catalan independence, put your beards to soak. We're just spoilers; you're next, and we've said it all the time. Some of you and some of you are profiled today or, even, do not want to intervene or do not want to vote, but the following are you. The following are you. Someday these people will go after you; in fact, they are already going, really. See the reality; see the reality. Things have to come up face-to-face. Stop paying attention to the polls, your spin doctors and your media. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u32	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the legislative branch. We are indeed the legislative branch, but we are the three hundred and fifty deputies. [[Applauds]] This parliamentary group and this party are defending the normal functioning of this House. What we are defending are the rights, yes, the political rights, the fundamental rights, not only of my group, but of all Members, of those who make up a majority and of the rest, because we are all in this House. [[Applauds]] In a democracy, the rights of the opposition are respected and guaranteed. In a democracy, procedures are guarantees. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, here no one decides what are the fundamental rights of another party or what is its size. There is the rule of law, and that is what we have resorted to. No one is going to tell us what our rights are, let alone tell us what their limits are. It will be the rule of law itself, which gives them to us, which guarantees them to us. And those are going to be here, uniquely and exclusively, in the Constitution. [[shows a copy of the Constitution]] [[Applauds]] And that's what we're defending today. You are making, throughout this parliamentary process, that democracy lives the world upside down: those of us who go to the institutions of the rule of law themselves tell us that we are hitting democracy. You have mingled so much with those who really struck democracy that you have come to believe that democracy is only for you or, rather, that democracy is you. [[Applause.- Various Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: All right!]] You have come to such an extent to believe that democracy is you who consider that you can, through democracy, turn all those who, yes, gave a coup d'état in Catalonia in 2017 into honorable democrats. And, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, you are not honourable democrats, no matter how much you are going to leave your criminal record blank today. During these last days we have heard Pedro Sánchez speak of courage - courage! - and I wonder where the brave Pedro Sánchez is today, because he is not in this House during this debate. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: That's it!-Applause.-Protests]] Where's Pedro Sánchez today? Where? [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]] That's called cowardice. [[The applause continues]] Of course it's called cowardice! Of course it's cowardice! [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: That's it! All right!]] If you are so brave, so brave, of course you can reform the Organic Law of the Judiciary, of course you can reform the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, but with guarantees, with guarantees, guaranteeing the rights of each and every member of Parliament. Bring it, courageously, from the Council of Ministers as a bill. Bring it, courageously, with all the reports, one after the other, which endorse legislative reforms in this rule of law. Bring it, courageously, with a real debate, where you can dialogue, where you can amend. Seven minutes, this is the debate, and there will be groups that have minutes and a half, almost what the failed republic lasted. [[Applauds]] See what debate we're talking about! What this session means is to take a new step in the demolition of our rule of law. Yes, because what is broken today is the equality of Spaniards before the law. What is broken and broken today is the primacy of the law before all public authorities, before all politicians, because all politicians have to be subject to the law. And what you bring here today, with the reform of the Criminal Code, with the repeal of the crime, with the reduction of corruption, is that there are politicians who legislate so that other politicians are above the law, and that this country does not deserve it! [[applause]] [[The applause continues]] They have been telling us, when they were talking about the crime of sedition to the Spaniards, that this was about homogenising European legislation. Forgive me for telling you that little shame is needed. At this point, everyone knows what it's for. Can you tell us on which page of the election program of Pedro Sánchez, of the Socialist Party, with which each and every one of you, Members of the Pedro Sánchez Party, presented themselves to the elections, any of this appears? Where does it appear they're going to repeal the sedition crime? Where does it turn out they're going to reduce corruption? [[Shows the Socialist Party's electoral program]] [[Applauds]] [[The applause continues]] You, who promoted a motion of censure saying you were fighting corruption, where are you? This is a fraud against your own voters. [[Applauds.-Protests]] If they had a bit of shame and if they were brave they would put the ballot boxes again and quehabil the Spaniards; the first, their voters. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing up, continues.]] The crime of sedition is not only a custom-made suit, but this is an example of a book to legislate and make a Penal Code for people with names and surnames. Repealing the crime of sedition isn't it for anyone? Yeah, of course it's for someone. Oriol Junqueras, president of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. Raúl Rovira, Deputy Secretary General of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. Jordi Turull, Secretary General of Junts; Dolors Bassa, autonomous deputy of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Parliamentary Group]] Carme Forcadell, Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Parliamentary Group]] That's why they applaud. [[Protests]] Joaquim Forn, P CAT. Josep Rull, Junts. Jordi Sánchez. Jordi Cuixart. Carles Puigdemont, President of Junta. Clara Ponsati, from Junts to Cat. Marta Rovira, General Secretary of the Republican Left of Catalonia Huida, of course! It's legal for them. Antoni Comín. For them, it is for you by your vote that you will repeal a crime; for them and for those who come. But let's talk about the embezzlement, the reform that comes from the hand of an amendment by Squerra Republicana de Catalunya. Indeed, reform makes it cheaper in this country if politicians steal. This is what we're talking about. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yes, yes, you, you. And this, for whom is it? Let's also give him names and surnames. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u34	The names and surnames of all those who have been prosecuted for embezzlement or are pending. Who are they? You also sit in this House and have promoted the amendment that you accept, that you voted for and that you make disappear part of that Penal Code. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u35	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u36	They do not lie to the Spaniards, because twelve years in prison are more than four years in prison. That's what everybody understands. [[Applauds]] But can you also guarantee that this will not affect more criminals? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u38	Of course it's going to affect more criminals! They will be counted by hundreds, like those who are going out on the street for committing sexual crimes thanks to the bad laws that come out of this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u39	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u40	I'm finishing up, Your Honor. The drama for the Spaniards is that all this is just a new station on the independence road map. It is they who rub their hands and applaud this irresponsible drift of you, those who claim to be members of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. They never thought they could achieve in such a quick and easy way what the rule of law is fighting for. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u42	Have you been able to hear...?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u43	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please, now.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u44	It's over now. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u45	Quiet. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Mrs. Gamarra, continue, please, and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u46	Yes, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, listen carefully to your partners when they say: we will do it again. Or when they tell them: the time has come to do it again. They will do it again, but this time the Democrats are not united because you have decided to move on to the other side. [[Applauds]] These are very delicate moments for democracy, no doubt. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u47	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u48	But I will tell the Spaniards that, fortunately, the outcome will be positive because there is an alternative. Of course there is an alternative, and the alternative is in the People's Party and Alberto Núñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u50	It was never so necessary that everyone... [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position. [[Rumors]] I'm asking for a little silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. With this opinion, the Government of Threats and Touches to the Judges, in complicity with the enemies of the State, graced by the reduction to their extent of the crimes of sedition and embezzlement, assists in the constitutional order, democracy and freedom a low blow of predictable side effects that will tear apart the unity of the nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, my rejection of this infamous and treacherous manoeuvre against the permanence of Spain, which weakens the rule of law vis-à-vis the separatists, and which, at the same time, spurs the assault on the Constitutional Court to put it at the service of Pedro Sánchez and his purposes of sabotage to the highest institutions of the State. [[Applauds]] Today, on this affluent law, he climbs the coup. This plenary session should never have been held. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u53	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u54	Thank you very much. We have already spoken about the sedition, and the same is true of the modification of the embezzlement. To mislead is to administer public money unfairly and if you take it into your pocket too, it's also a crime, it's misappropriation, it's stealing, and if it's for another crime, it's a double crime. It's pretty childish to say it's not the same, we know it. In Catalonia, no one was convicted of misappropriation, for stealing. The penalties are now reduced to unfair-private administration, and there will also be problems in their implementation. The reasons are other, as we all know, and quite more than half of Spain knows them as well. With regard to the election of members of the Constitutional Court, I will say two things. These binding procedures, which depend on an agreement, must have a maximum time limit to avoid unacceptable blockades, such as those being carried out by the People's Party and, at the end of this period, there must be a mechanism to complete the procedure. Today, what is proposed is totally democratic, we agree. But these spurious procedures that the government party is bringing in without indecent, force us to vote against by including it in the reform of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero. [[Mr. Cerdán León: The President.-Laughter.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u56	It would not be a bad day to be president; given that the real one is not there, it would be a good time to get there. [[Greetings from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-A Member of Parliament: Bravo!]] It is not, and it is an indignity that on a day when we are going to discuss what is being discussed the President of the Government is not here. That is a shame because what is intended is to remove the crimes of those who stole money from all the Spaniards to attack the whole of Spain and, in return, what is done? Forgive them for that crime. That's corruption, that's corruption. [[Protests.-Applause.]] No, no. Corruption is taking money away from all Spaniards to put it at the service of your party interests. [[Applauds]] Yeah, that's corruption. What they do is to make all the laws at their will so that they can run the Constitutional Court, so that these clearly unconstitutional laws that are passed here will be corrected later and say that they are not unconstitutional. You guys do corruption. [[Protests]] Yeah, corruption. And they're still questioning, which I don't care about. [[Applauds]] Because it's obvious that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u58	...the spokesman for Esquerra has come out here very happy, because he knows this is one more. And they laugh. The problem is not that they laugh at you, the problem is that laughing at you laugh at all the Spaniards, because you take everything out. They said they weren't going to correct the crime of sedition, they said they weren't going to make any pardons, they said there wasn't going to be any embezzlement, and they're doing everything. Now they say they're going to do the referendum, and if it's for you they're going to do it, what happens is we're not going to leave them. Yeah, they're changing the laws so it can be done. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, so it can be done. They also said that with misrepresentation, with sedition, with pardons, and when he denounces him we go here they laugh at us. You have done everything, because you doing that what you are doing is an exercise in caciquism and corruption. It is not worth saying that it has been voted democratically...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u59	Mr. García, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u60	No, no, it's just that votes have to be made according to the laws, and you guys make fun of the laws. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u61	I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u62	The president has said that she gives me the floor, this is the place of the floor. There's a song by a canary singer named Braulio, who talked about the volcano and the passions, and said: if you find the passions, I don't know what's going to happen. We're in a democracy, in the Congress of Deputies, and I never thought I'd live this. We, from Coalition Canaria, as we announced the other day, will vote against the disappearance of the sedition crime. We believe that the issue of embezzlement should not have been so, yesterday the anti-corruption attorney general said that there can be a negative effect on certain procedures. We're going to vote against it. But I also want to say one thing. In the democracies of the Western world, and in this country by the Constitution, there is a separation of the powers of the State: the judiciary and the legislative power. I, as a Member of Parliament, as a Democrat, would never have imagined that a court would prevent an independent legislative chamber in democracy from holding a plenary session, debating and voting. Another thing is that the Constitutional Court, on the day following the adoption of the final procedure of the law, may, at the time of publication in the Official Gazette of the State, suspend the law. That is the view that some may not share, but, of course, in my party we are respectful of the Constitution, of dialogue and, above all, of the word. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u64	Thank you, President. The fact that the Constitutional Court allowed itself to hold Congress in the face of whether it could or could not debate this law is part of a strategy of patrimonialization of the state's high judiciary by the right, but it is also a consequence of the break in the division of powers to bind the Catalan Parliament and the reforms of the Rajoy Government to give the Constitutional Court more power than the parliaments. An abuse of sovereignty which began in the Catalan Parliament and which today has reached the Congress of Deputies, which cost President Carme Forcadell prison, as Mrs Arrimadas reminded us today, who has been allowed to threaten the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies. Of those dusts, these muds, ladies and gentlemen. We should learn. The reform of the crime of embezzlement opens the door for any Government that deploys policies that judges do not like to be accused of embezzlement. This started with a referendum, we'll see where it ends. The same applies to the reform of the crime of aggravated public disorder. This is not a fight against and against Catalans, as it was not in 2010 or 2015 or 2017; this is a fight for the right to protest and for the sovereignty of peoples and parliaments. That September 2017 there was no coup d'état in Catalonia, there was an exercise in the sovereignty of a Parliament, and the coup d'état is when the division of powers is broken and judges are sent instead of parliaments being sent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u66	Pick it up on. President, ladies and gentlemen, today has been the most serious event in democratic terms after 23 F, the most serious. Be aware that new-generation coups today do not occur with weapons. 23-F was already a little chilly, I don't know if they remember that some media in northern Europe said that the deputies had entered Congress a military shooting with a bullfighter's hat. That's how they saw it in Europe. Do you know what's going on? That today most blows are made on the basis of what is called the lawfare and politically controlled courts, those that you control. This is seen continuously in Latin America, but we have also seen it in Catalonia and even in Euskal Herria last year with different issues. Lawfare, what comes to be called the judicial war, is the continuation of politics by other means, by judicial means. What we have seen today is - I say, the most serious thing that has been seen in this state in decades - the sound of robes, that is, the extreme political, judicial and media right agreed to try to block this Parliament, this Congress of Deputies. The mere possibility - because, as they have postponed the decision, we do not know - is already intolerable, it is very serious what has been set up today. That is why we believe it is an obligation of all and of all to block that deep State, that Deep State. Sometimes they ask us how we are independent. The strange thing is that, Mr Patxi, it is not you who are already independent, seeing what is happening. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] It's rare that they don't become independentists. [[Rumors]] Don't worry, don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u68	On the substance of the issue, on reforms, we see particularly positive points. But we are also pointing out and trying to negotiate the solution of some shortcomings, of some loopholes that we see as the time and opportunity to modify, but do not hesitate that we will continue to insist that this be done. But today we are faced with a pre-democratic fact, we are faced with a question that there are ultra-accommodated sectors in institutions that are trying to block this institution. Therefore, in a spirit of democratic radicalism, he announced that we will give a positive vote and allow this law to continue. Because, as we said... don't get nervous, ladies, I don't know if you haven't eaten; calm down, calm down. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u70	As I said, the main thing today is to defend the legitimacy of this House and the decisions that are made in it representing the majority of citizens. On the merits, we believed and believed that there were positive measures. There is a step in the de-judicialization, yes, of what is a political process such as that of Catalonia, a democratic and peaceful process. There were in 2017 and from that year several judges who emulating the Cid Campeador believed themselves to be the vanguard that had to resolve a political conflict and put something in the courts that should never have entered them. Also, with this measure, although not everything is resolved, we believe that a positive step is taken, and to deny it is to deny the evidence, but it is also to place your Criminal Code in terms of harmonization with other European criminal codes, and this I think should be news even for you. With regard to the part that did not convince us, it is that in the section of the disorders there are and still are parts with a very broad level of interpretation, be it intimidation, ocupation or invasion of facilities, and we believe that the penalty should be lowered. But, look, the risk of interpretation we have known well in Euskal Herria and Catalonia, and not only in these crimes, but in many more serious ones. Let us remember that the crime of rebellion and terrorism has attempted to apply, and in many cases has been applied, to peaceful and democratic mobilizations. Therefore, the risk will always be there, but it is undeniable that this is a step in the right direction, although there will always be magistrates and magistrates who try to judge more and apply more the postal code than the Penal Code. As for the possibility of renovating the members of the Constitutional Court through amendment of the General Council of the Judiciary, it is also positive, because there are some Okupas men and women who are there trying to represent their interests, who do not win with the votes they try to win in the courts, as we have seen today. That is why we believe that we need to go further and we also need to talk about how to carry out the modification, either by a single article in the Organic Law of the Judiciary, in order to immediately cease all those okupa vowels in that institution. In short, we believe that these measures are on the right track. They are not all to be taken, no, but, in general, they are positive. We will continue to work from a democratic prism, from a left prism, from a progressive prism to continue to move forward and not to ignore what has happened today, as I say, the most serious fact that has occurred in Spain in recent decades. There is a phrase that has been repeated many times by Montesquieu - I know he is called the father of the division of powers - which said that there is no tyranny greater than that which is made with the appearance of law and in the name of justice, which is something we are seeing today. The corporal. As I said, today there is a positive step - it is undeniable that it is positive - in the judicialization of Catalonia, in the Catalan political conflict and it is also a step forward in the penal system and in the Spanish Penal Code. But we are also faced with a fundamental, pre-democratic fact, and it is that there are ultra-tangled sectors in institutions that have tried and are trying to paralyse democratic decisions of parliamentary chambers of representation. That is why we shall vote yes. Today we take a step in the right direction, we return to politics what should never have come to the courts and we will get out of the Constitution, of course, to those who should have left it long ago. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u71	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u72	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing an initiative with a heterogeneity of themes, but I would like to focus on those on which the political centre of gravity of this initiative rests, those on the rectification of the State policy followed as a response to the political and constitutional crisis experienced in Catalonia during the process and on the subsidiary reformulation of the rules governing the appointment of some judges of the Constitutional Court to prevent the General Council of the Judiciary from continuing to block the renewal of those that are theirs and, in turn, condition the competence of the Government. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group - as you already know - has spoken on numerous occasions about the need to destabilise the conflict in Catalonia. That is why we have consistently expressed our support for pardons, the disappearance of the crime of sedition and the corresponding reform of public order. Because, ladies and gentlemen, whatever is said, the disappearance of the crime of sedition gives rise to consensus in criminal doctrine, it is an unmatched crime in the Union and, as has been pointed out by some qualified doctrine, an ancient totalitarian whose disappearance should have occurred years ago. With regard to the reformulation of the offence of misappropriation of public revenues, it is also a crime that should not have been rewritten under the terms of Organic Law 1/2015, and therefore its reform should not have suffered the disdain and passivity suffered so far. As I said to them, it was rewritten in Organic Law 1/2015 with the sole vote of the People's Party and as a manifestation of the criminal law of the adversary, and this was Artur Mas, precisely because of the convening of the referendum of the 9N of 2014, also ignoring the reports of the General Council of the Judiciary and of the Fiscal Council, which showed their discontent in equalizing the appropriation for themselves or for a third party of public revenues without distinguishing it from those other cases in which either there is no mood of definitive appropriation - the misuse of use - or there is a destination of public resources for public uses other than those provided for by law, the budget diversion. The question that we should ask ourselves today is whether it is reasonable to maintain the crime of embezzlement as it is, because it is false that after the reform there is less penalty for the diversion of funds to oneself or to third parties for profit, and it is also false that after the reform it is not possible to pursue the waste of public authorities when it is abusive, something other than disengagement from the embezzlement of conflicts of a political nature, and cases, as is now the case, of requesting prison sentences and disqualification, such as for example, for making known and obtaining international support for a political initiative such as the process, or for the contracting of reports on the instruments of international cooperation between Spain and Catalonia in the event of independence, or for the costs of moving and hosting attendees to a global meeting of Catalan communities in 2012, or for the costs of EUR 4500 for participating as an observer in the referendum on the self-determination of New Caledonia financed by public resources, for which nothing more than three years of imprisonment and quite more of disqualification are required. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the other big question I was referring to is concerned, that it was seeking a solution to the blockade imposed by the People's Party and its related judges of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court and that the legal system has no answer to today, I would like to point out that it is a situation that the People's Party, when it was in the opposition, has used to keep conservative majority voting extended both in the General Council of the Judiciary and by extension in the Constitutional Court, preventing its renewal. It was so in the past to overthrow the Statute of Catalan Autonomy and now to influence pending decisions of the Constitutional Court to be tried by a court with a majority of conservative and non-progressive bias, what is called the state of lawfare, as we have seen in the Supreme Court of the United States of America, to demolish legal conquests over citizens' rights with an interposed hand when the Legislative Power is not available. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is what we see today in a discarnate way in the People's Party, in the media like the right and in its judges also like the General Council of the Judiciary and in the Constitutional Court. [[The lady]] And in the face of this obstructive work, we consider that this Chamber must react through the necessary majorities in order to promote a reform of both the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, without having to argue as an adversarial one that the Constitutional Court wants to be strictly controlled, when the person who says it is precisely the one who has manipulated the most, as on the occasion of the Catalan statute, and continues to manipulate today to propitiate sentences against laws through judges of ideological bias close to the one who has appealed them, including by prolonging his mandate in a spurious way through the blockade of the renewal of the conservative judicial majorities in order to continue to control the institutions. I'll finish it, President. We will vote in favour of the Commission's opinion on the initiative to rectify the state policy that followed the Catalan crisis. And we will also vote in favour to overcome the spurious blockade of the renewal of the conservative majority implored by the Constitutional Court, promoted by an equivalent majority and also extended by the General Council of the Judiciary through the work of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that there is no need to change the rules to resolve a political conflict, but our group thinks precisely the opposite. If it is possible to solve a serious political problem of coexistence by changing the rules, it is worth changing them. Ladies and gentlemen, coexistence sometimes calls for exceptional measures, and institutional blockades, too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u74	President. Ladies and gentlemen. Before responding to what they have said, I want to make a reflection: what happened this morning is very serious, it is unheard of. The People's Party is trying to use the Constitutional Court with the expired mandate to replace the will of the people represented in this Congress, attacking the separation of powers and trying to impose a majority that lost the elections three years ago, an artificial majority that is still in the government of the judges and in the Constitutional Court. Can you imagine a Member of this House who was not re-elected and refused to leave the seat? That is what is happening in the Constitutional Court. The president has convened an emergency plenary when he has expired, and intends to decide on his future work to seemingly prevent the renewal of that court. It's a shameful episode that will happen. Democracy will resist, but the stigma, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, will persecute you throughout your political life. [[Protests.-Several Members: Ooh!-Applause]] Even though you haven't left holes up here, you're trying to drill democracy with a silent blow, and our obligation as democrats is to prevent it. [[point to the roof]] [[protests by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.- Mrs Moro Almaraz: That cannot be said!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u75	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u76	Mrs. Gamarra, you say this is unheard of. Proposition of law reforming the Constitutional Court, 2015: single reading, urgent procedure; organic law reforming the Criminal Code on terrorism, 2015: single reading, urgent procedure; Organic Law of the Judiciary, 2014 reform on universal justice: urgent procedure, single reading. If even you reformed the Constitution in one day and gave us a day to plead! Don't talk to us about rights violations when... [[Applauds]] [[Protests.-Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress point to members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Yes, the Socialist Party too. You and the Socialist Party! But you were the only ones the Constitutional Court... [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u77	Quiet, please! Mr. Garcés, Mr. Hispan, silence, please. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u78	No wonder they won't listen to me. If they're committing a coup... [[Protests.-Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: It was them!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u79	Mr. Garcés, you called the order for the first time! [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u80	Madam President, time is passing. Time, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u81	Mr. Tirado Ochoa, please be quiet. Go on, Mr. Asens.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u82	He said that in the past mandate the People's Party was reprimanded by the Constitutional Court because it gag the opposition. That is the only time that has passed, and with a constitutional court of conservative majority. You come here today to say that reforming the Criminal Code is an attack on democracy - today precisely. Adapting the legal system to European standards is a matter of democratic hygiene. The relics of the past, like sedition, for museums, but not for the laws of a democratic country. [[Applauds]] You say this is a covert amnesty. Normalizing an injustice always opens the doors to all the injustices that follow it for others, and sedition is a sword of Damocles on the right to protest, whoever exercises it. The reform of the People's Party of the crime of embezzlement was a real sham, and we do not say so, as the judges and prosecutors, the prosecutor's council and the government of absolute majority judges also said. You say that there is no consensus here today. You approved that reform against most of the other opposition forces! You speak of the intrusion of the judiciary, indeed this is an inevitable step towards addressing an open conflict in Catalonia since you unilaterally broke the territorial pact of the Transition, nullifying the sentence of the Statute. It is a return to democratic normality and that is what Europe is asking of us, in particular the Council of Europe. When in the name of the fight against independence there are biased interpretations of the law or ad hoc rules of an exceptional nature - as when you passed the 2015 reform on embezzlement - a criminal right of the author's enemy is consolidated that is inspired by an old and never paid totalitarian temptation: the idea that it must be punished not for what has been done, but for what it is, and a state of law worthy of that name cannot allow such renunciation. You say that it is being legislated for a group of criminals; you, who have more than three hundred accused or convicted of corruption. [[Applauds]] They say this benefits the corrupt. If that were so, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gamarra, you would be here doing the comba with Mr Rajoy, with Barcenas and with some of the three hundred accused or convicted of corruption; that is the most obvious proof that it does not serve that purpose. [[applause]] You cannot teach us lessons in the fight against corruption, precisely you, the most corrupt party in Europe. [[Protests. - Mrs. Moro Almaraz: That's it!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u83	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u84	You live in a permanent loop, repeating the same script over and over again: we win a motion of censure; you: coup d'état, it breaks Spain. We won the elections; you: coup d'état, it breaks Spain. We are negotiating with the democratic plurality of this House; you, the coup d'état, are breaking up Spain. We now rescue the Constitutional Court from its kidnapping; you: coup d'état, it breaks Spain. [[Rumors]] They have even qualified the president of the government as dictator. They see coups everywhere, but when there's one like the 36, they talk about fighting between brothers or grandparents and great-grandfathers. That is his conception of democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u85	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u86	Mr Pagès, you are neither a criminal nor any of those you have mentioned, but there are criminals in your political space: they are 3%. [[rumors]] That's his problem. Mrs Arrimadas, I would like to address you, but it is that you have repeated the same speech as the People's Party, and between the copy and the original, I believe that people always keep the original. Therefore, everything I have said to the People's Party is worth to you. The lordships of VOX have left the Chamber, that always has good things... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u87	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u88	...and he's got some bad stuff, too.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u89	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u90	The good thing is that we can do the debate with less insults, less screams. The bad thing is that we don't know what they're doing and that, coming from VOX, the truth is that we're worried, especially given their conception of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with one final message to the social movements. In the coalition government we had a commitment, which was to put an end to the People's Party's legacy in terms of cutbacks in protest rights. We have repealed the one who was chasing the strikers, now the sedition and have lowered the punitive rigour of the Penal Code of the People's Party that was used to placate the social response that we come from as formation. In spite of that, no one should be deceived; we have stayed in the middle of the road. What is approved is better than what is available, but there is still a long way to go. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u91	Mr. Asens, you have to finish now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u92	Penalties remain high. This is the result of an agreement, a correlation of forces. But - and I finish, Madam President - we need to move forward and improve this text, and this is a fundamental task for us, but also for citizen mobilization. We, who come from social movements, know its importance; therefore, do not leave us alone, be critical with us and mark our way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u93	Thank you, Mr. Asens. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u94	Thank you very much, President. I am speaking on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group which, out of decency, does not continue to sit in the seats before a plenary that is absolutely fraudulent, and especially when we are faced with an unacceptable and disgusting climate of violence and threat by different deputies of the extreme left of the Sánchez Government against the judges of the Constitutional Court, which is the same as against the judiciary as a whole, saying and affirming that they would not tolerate any toga putting limits on the self-government of the people or that the judges were coups with toga. [[rumors]] In short, statements clearly contrary to the Constitution, disregarding democracy, the separation of powers and the freedom of the Spanish to be legitimately represented in this House and protected by judicial bodies. This is nothing other than an assault or institutional coup perfectly planned by Sánchez, his Government and the parties that support him, which began on 14 November by admitting the Bureau of Government to the processing of this bill to which our group opposed clear regulatory fraud; which continued shortly afterwards, on 24 November, with an extraordinary plenary called urgently for its consideration, which was also received with our opposition; a few days later, on 1 December, a new urgent extraordinary plenary to discuss the amendments to the whole, as our group did. A few days later, the speaker was summoned to the Presentation of this law and had to listen with concern and great surprise to how the lawyers of these Courts warned and warned that, with the admission of different amendments, there was a clear lack of homogeneity, absolute disconnection and material inconsistency with the amended text, and especially with amendments 61 and 62, which attempt to reform the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court. We request, on the same day, 12 different written documents from the Bureau which have not yet been resolved, calling for the non-admission of the processing of these amendments, reports to the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary, the State Advocate, the Council of State and the lawyers themselves of this House. A day later, again in a hurry, on 13 December, we were called to a Commission of Justice where we again opposed and reiterated the necessary non-admission of this procedure. And today - today - 15 December, a new call for an urgent special plenary session for the final vote on the opinion. Today, we appealed to the Constitutional Court for amparo, requesting the interim measure of suspension of the proceedings for obvious violations of fundamental rights, constitutional rights. And we have to listen, after the speech of our spokesman, to the only Spanish woman, the president of this House, who has not heard and who does not know the notoriety of these amparo resources. This is, in short, the situation before us. A procedure against which we oppose in substance and in form, in law and in procedure; a procedure that is a clear procedural fraud, a fraud to the law and a very clear unconstitutionality. The objectives are not hidden from any of your ladies and gentlemen, but not from the Spanish. First, what the Government and its partners are looking for is a covert amnesty for all coupsmen, abrogating the crime of sedition and encouraging them to re-incurrence in it, reducing the penalties for corrupt people by reducing penalties for embezzlement of public funds. The final political control of the General Council of the Judiciary, reducing the necessary majority from three fifths to a simple majority, breaking the necessary decision as a collegiate body and reducing the voting of only one of the candidates for the Constitutional Court's judge for its members. In short, an assault on the Constitutional Court, even abolishing, without the slightest shame, the procedure of suitability necessary to acquire the status of magistrate and violating the Constitution within the necessary time limits for its renewal rather than by thirds per sixth. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has serious consequences, and those who are going to vote in favour of this law are perfectly aware and aware of what they are doing: that impunity to those who openly boast that they will again give a coup d'état, to those who clearly support the corrupt within their parties and in their governments, who clearly claim to be able to adopt clearly unconstitutional rules from now on, as indeed were the states of alarm, having an absolutely domesticated Constitutional Court and at the service of the Government; to succeed in rejecting in this way all the remedies of unconstitutionality that are pending, among others, the more than forty remedies of unconstitutionality lodged by the VOX Parliamentary Group. From today on it will cease to be called the Constitutional Court and turn its name into the governmental court of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. By the way, Sánchez had already credited his betrayal of Spain; today, moreover, he believes his cowardice not being here when the Constitution and the rule of law are being trampled. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Today, unfortunately, it is what we could describe as the death or de facto disappearance of the division of powers of the rule of law, democracy and the Constitution. Some believe that coups of state are made with weapons and military uniform, but those are more visible; the most dangerous are the coups of state that are made from within the institutions themselves, taking advantage of precisely... [[rumors]] [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u95	Mr. Ortega, you have to finish. [[Rumors]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u96	... taking advantage precisely of the springs that the institutions allow them, as we could already see in Catalonia, from the Generality of Catalonia and with the support of the Catalan institutions. Today, in short, is a sad day for Spain, a very sad day for democracy, a very sad day for this House, but it is also a day of hope, because the more you intend to twist the state, the more you intend to trample the Constitution, the more you despise and hate Spain, the greater the response of the vast majority of Spaniards, which will be to throw you off the street very soon or to sit a large part of you on the bench. [[Several Members: Halaaa!]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Rumores.-The Minister of Equality, Montero Gil: That's the issue.-The Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado: That's the issue. That's what this is about.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. [[Rumors]] Silence, please, I ask silence! For the Socialist Group, Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor. [[applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.- Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Patxi, Patxi, Patxi!- Mr López Álvarez: Then, then]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we are at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. [[Rumors.-Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, forty-one years ago the right wing wanted to stop a Congressional plenary and also to stop democracy, it did so with tricorns. [[Protests]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, the right has again wanted to stop... [[Protests.- Several Members make negative gestures]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u99	Quiet, please! I'm asking you to be quiet, please! Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence! Mr Sicilia is speaking! Mr. Hispan! [[Protests.-Several Members: What a shame!]] [[Protests Continue]] [[Rumors.-Several Members: The RightNo]] [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: It wasn't the right hand, it was the thumpers.-Mr.Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: He called us thumpers!-Mr. Cerdán León: That's what you are.]] [[Several Members of Parliament: That's not it!- Mrs. Moro Almaraz: It's a falsehood.- Mrs. Montero Quadrado, Minister of Finance and Public Service: She called us coups, she says. Come on!-Laughter and applause]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please. I'm begging you! [[Strong rumors.-Mr.Ortiz Galván: That's not it, that's not it.]] Mr. Ortiz, I'm asking you to be quiet, please! Mr. Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u100	It must be that Tejero was from the left; it must be that Tejero was from the left. [[applause and laughter.- Rumours]] Ladies and gentlemen, they wanted to stop the plenary and democracy with tricorns and today they wanted to do it with robes, but they did not succeed. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr.Mariscal Anaya: What a barbarity you just said!]] They have not succeeded because our democracy is strong and solid, and our institutions are strong and solid and they have not been able to stop it! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Just a few weeks ago... just a few weeks ago... I just started, uh... [[The Rumors Continue]] [[Rumors continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u101	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u102	I was telling you just a week ago, in this very rostrum, to the right-wing ladies who always use the courts to try to win in them what they can't win either in the polls or in this House, and one week has been enough to check it out! [[applause]] One week has been enough to check, and therefore, there is no longer any doubt, there is no longer any doubt! We already know the true reason why you have blocked the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and blocked the Constitutional Court: because you use them as a last resort to win what you lose here and what you lose in the ballot boxes, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] In addition, it does not matter to you that this implies having important constitutional bodies blocked or that this implies the destabilization of our institutions or the discrediting of our democratic system. You don't care, you don't care, because all you care about is power, you only care about power. [[Rumors.-Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress point to members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] And they do everything possible and impossible to stop it, and if they don't, so that others can't exercise it! That's all they care about. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right, we bring to this plenary the amendment of the Criminal Code concerning the crime of sedition and embezzlement. You, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, amended the Criminal Code and, in particular, the offence of embezzlement in 2015. They did so with the vote against most of the groups in this House, with a report against the General Council of the Judiciary and the Fiscal Council, and I ask you: why could you amend the Criminal Code and the rest of the groups in this House not? Is your seats worth more than ours?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Are they worth more than ours?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No! No! Then they tell us: No, it's because of the procedure, it's because of the procedure. Look, Parliament of Andalusia, just a year ago, the right-wing government of Moreno Bonilla has a two hundred-page decree-law that amends forty laws that affect all Board councils. How did they handle it? As a matter of urgency. How many days? In six. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Why can you use...?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u103	Ladies, I'm asking you to be quiet, please! [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u104	You do and the rest don't! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you're so... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u105	Mr. Castellón, I'm asking you to be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, in 1995 they changed the method of election of the General Council of the Judiciary, why can't the majority of this House now change the method and the majority of choices that the Council has to make to unlock the Constitutional Court? Why can you change the majority and the majority of this House not, Mrs Gamarra?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Strong rumors.-Applause.]] You changed a system of choice when there was no block in the election of the General Council of the Judiciary. However, today we have to change it because the political right and the judicial right have been blocked, they have kidnapped the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court, and in the face of this kidnapping our obligation as the power of the State, as the Legislative Power, with the law, which is our instrument, is undoubtedly that the institutions operate and put the means to free them from the kidnapping to which they are subjected. [[Protests.-Applause.]] And, man, Mrs. Gamarra, the highlight is listening to you say that with this reform we favor corruption and corrupt people. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Yes!]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, what did you do when you amended the Criminal Prosecution Act, limiting the time that judges had to investigate corruption cases? What did you do! [[Applauds]] But what's more, they not only limited the time for judges to investigate corruption cases; they put the police to work to cover up their corruption, the Kitchen case. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And look, Mrs Gamarra, this is not the best day for you to talk about defendants and embezzlement, because between your ranks, on your bench, up there, you have a deputy who is accused of prevarication and embezzlement, Mr Casero. [[Applauds]] But look, the reality is that you... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u107	Wait a minute, Mr. Sicily. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. [[Rumors and Protests]] Mrs. Beltrán, Mr. Hispan, silence, please. Mr. Sicilia, you can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u108	Thank you, President. The reality is that you don't mind the Criminal Code being amended, the procedure or the new majority to elect the Constitutional, what bothers you is that that you can't do it now, it bothers you that it's not you who are deciding, because what bothers you is that it's others who are ruling and we're others who are legislating. [[Applauds]] That's what's bothering them. And, look, that's why they talk about illegitimate government, they talk about occupation, they talk about a coup to democracy, they talk about a dictator, that democracy is in danger. No, look, democracy in our country has only been in danger with the right. [[Protests]] Yes, he was in danger in the 36th, with a military coup that ended democracy and put our country in danger. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u109	Mrs. Moraleja, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u110	Our democracy was in jeopardy 23-F, 23-F; Tejero was not leftist, he was rightist. In danger! And look, ladies and gentlemen, the right continues to jeopardize our democracy today with these hate speech and blocking the institutions that are fundamental to the flow of our democratic system. [[Rumors and Protests]] [[Applauds]] It is always the same who endanger democracy in our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u111	Mr. Sicilia, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u112	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Gentlemen of the PP and Mrs. Gamarra, you continue to present resources, that we will continue to present laws to improve people's lives... [[A congressman. Come on!- Rumors and protests]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u113	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u114	You, resources; we, laws to improve people's lives and defend them... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u115	Mr. Píriz, Mr. Lorite, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u116	I'll tell you again. Yes; you, resources; we, laws to improve people's lives and to defend Spain's interests in Brussels. [[rumors and protests.-Mr.De Olano Vela: Pederastas in the street]] And Mrs Gamarra, that is where the President of the Government is in Brussels, defending the interests of our country. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]] It's over now. Look, Mrs Gamarra, I will tell you very clearly: in the face of those who want to stop us, the Socialists will continue to move forward. So, comrades of the Socialist Group, we, to keep walking. To walk or, rather, as Alberti said: To gallop! [[Several Members: Olé!- Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u117	Thank you, Mr. Sicily. [[Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo asked for the floor]] Yes, Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u118	Madam President, I am asking for the floor under Rule 72 in relation to 71.3, for the remarks made by the speaker on behalf of the Socialist Party, which affect the decorum and dignity of my parliamentary group. [[A Member: And from this House.-Applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u119	You have one minute to make reference to the specific allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u120	Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I understand that you want to... [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u121	Quiet, please. Mrs. Gamarra has... [[Protests Continue]] I ask you to remain silent. I ask you to remain silent. Mrs Gamarra, make an indication of the allusions to which you refer.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u122	The allusions are, in particular, those directly related to the coup d'état that took place in this very House on February 23, 1981, linking it up, putting it in relation... [[Mr. De Olano Vela: That's all right!-Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: You, on your knees; Adolfo Suárez, on your feet!-Strong protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u123	Wait a minute, Mrs. Gamarra. I ask you to remain silent. Mr Garcés, Mrs Gamarra has the floor, not you. [[Rumors and Protests]] I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u124	Thank you, President. Lords of the Socialist Party, spokesman for the Socialist Party, I understand that you have begun a process of democratic memory with which you want to rewrite democratic history in our country, but in 1981... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u125	Quiet, please. Mrs Gamarra, I have given you the floor to make reference to allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u126	I've already given them, Madam President. It's over now. I would like to make it clear, because it seems that the democratic memory is quite fragile, that on 23 February 1981 in this country the centre-right was governed. [[Several Members: Very well!]] The centreright was sitting in this House, here, when a coup d'état took place. [[Applauds]] So, I think you have to review the story a little bit and not try to change it. [[Rumors and Protests]] But you will not be able to change the future of history that you, unfortunately, are rewriting. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.-Protests]] What a shame, socialists, if you heard so many socialists sitting on that bench on 23 February what you just said today!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Ladies and gentlemen, the repeated lack of respect for the services of this House, the functioning of the House, the Bureau and the Presidency are intolerable. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I ask you, please, to stop it. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u128	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law transposing European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union, and reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorder and smuggling of dual-use weapons. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 143 against, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u129	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendments 39 and 41. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 10 against, 266 abstentions, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u130	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 66 against, 267 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u131	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 24 against, 269 abstentions, 46.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u132	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. Amendment 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 66 against, 267 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u133	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 31 against, 267 abstentions, 41.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u134	It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Boadella Esteve. Amendment 53. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 11 against, 269 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u135	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 17 against, 272 abstentions, 50.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u136	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagés i Massó. Amendments 20, 32 and 35. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 12 against, 267 abstentions, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u137	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 21 and 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 29 against, 267 abstentions, 43.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u138	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 25, 37 and 38. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 11 against, 266 abstentions, 61.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u139	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 26, 27 and 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 5 against, 269 abstentions, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u140	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 20 against, 265 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u141	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 47. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 65 against, 267 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u142	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 60 against, 271 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u143	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 145 against, 191 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u144	They are therefore rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that from 17:25 until 17:55 the opinion and the vote as a whole on the proposal for an organic law transposing European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union, and reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorder and smuggling of dual-use weapons, will be able to be voted telematically. We will therefore suspend the sitting for 45 minutes and the vote will take place once it is resumed. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 6.15 p.m. It was five and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 6.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala asked for the floor]] Mr. Figaredo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u146	Madam President, I call on Rule 72 on a point of order. Previously, it was said in plenary that the Bureau of Congress had no record that certain appeals had been brought before the Constitutional Court for the processing of this rule, which we are now voting on. The Bureau of Congress is now on record, because it has been notified. [[Protests]] And again we reiterate the request that this vote be suspended until the Constitutional Court has deliberated on the matter, subject to the penalty of emptying a hypothetical decision of the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. I must insist on what I said earlier, and it is that the Congress of Deputies has not received any official communication from the competent body that would have to do so, which is the Constitutional Court. The communication by a parliamentary group of an appeal, of course, is not suspensive of a legislative procedure. [[Rumors]] I also remind you, Your Honor, of an article of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, the 270, and another article of the Civil Prosecution Act, the 150, which say that notification is the means of becoming aware of the existence and effectiveness of a judicial decision, which, of course, this House would abide by, as it cannot otherwise be. We shall therefore proceed to the votes. [[Applauds]] Proposal for an organic law transposing European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union and reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorder and smuggling of dual-use weapons. Vote on the opinion on paragraphs 13a, 3 and 4 of Article 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 249 votes in favour, 185 against, 63 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u148	They are approved. Vote on the opinion on the fourth and fifth transitional provisions and the first new final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 249 votes in favour 188 against 61.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u149	It was adopted. Rest of the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 249; in favour, 185; against, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u150	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u151	Overall vote on the proposal for an organic law transposing European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union, and reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorder and smuggling of dual-use weapons, as being of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 249; 184; 64; abstentions; 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u152	The Proposal for an Organic Law on the transposition of European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union, and reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorder and smuggling of dual-use weapons, was adopted. [[Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo asked for the floor.-Protests]] Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u153	Very briefly, Madam President, under Rule 72, in connection with Rule 89, to explain the meaning of the vote. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent. If you want to leave the Chamber, you're leaving. If not, take your seats, please. Mrs Gamarra, the explanation of vote has been made by you in the speech that was part of the debate on this initiative. [[Protests]] Quiet, please. Anyway, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u155	Thank you, Madam President. I simply take the floor to make it clear that this parliamentary group has not voted, since this vote should not have taken place in the terms in which it took place, because two amendments should not have been incorporated, or, if necessary, should have been expected to take place in the resolution before the Constitutional Court. Since we are not in favour of leaving the institutions, that is why we stayed during the vote. But at such a critical time as this, of course, we have not voted. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-15-CD221215.u156	The meeting rose. It was six and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
