ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue the debate on the opinion of the Draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2023. First of all, the debate in section 28, Ministry of Science and Innovation. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Science and Innovation. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, to start the debate, I would ask you, please, for a little silence in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today I appear before you to detail the budgets planned for the Ministry of Science and Innovation for the year 2023. The general budgets of the State for the coming year and those of my ministry have as their main objective social justice and economic efficiency and are designed around two fundamental axes: the strengthening of the welfare state and inclusive economic growth. The accounts I stand for today in this rostrum align with these objectives because we are certain that science and innovation are levers of growth and progress for our country. We present budgets that contribute to the welfare state by strengthening the public science system with the clear will to help improve the life of citizens, to strengthen research in order to seek solutions and solve the problems of our fellow citizens. And we also present budgets that promote inclusive economic growth. With the new science law we design an updated regulatory framework that is consistent with the current needs of science and innovation and with the current draft budgets we fund the development of the law and those vital ministerial projects to address the future and to foster a new productive model that faces the challenges: the development of clean green energies and their storage, health and cutting-edge therapies, aerospace research and developments, innovative companies and public procurement, the fight against climate emergency and fires, and all this from a system that guarantees real equality between men and women also in science and innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to turn to the most relevant issues in my department's budget. First of all, I would like to stress that we are faced with the most important budget in R & D+i in the history of our country. For the third consecutive year we increased the funding of the ministry, reaching 3991 million euros. This means that we have doubled the budget in science and innovation in just three years and that we are in the antipodes of the budgets of this department during the governments of the People's Party, which fell by more than 30% and did not recover after the crisis. This is the chart, gentlemen. [[Displays a graph]] With the budgets I am presenting to you today, we are above what marks the path of compliance with the new science law with regard to the target of 1.25% of public R & D funding for 2030. In addition, of the three budgets that we have presented, this is the one that is growing considerably, without taking into account the recovery funds, with an own growth of the national budget of 20%. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is only the contribution to that challenge of reaching 3% of the GDP of the General Administration of the State. We are therefore also serving as an engine for different administrations, such as the autonomous communities, and also for private enterprise. I am not going to detail each and every chapter of the budget, but I would like to highlight some of the actions in two areas that are very relevant: one is human capital and the other is the new strategic projects. At a time of uncertainty and lack of resources, there is one that is inexhaustible and unlimited that we must take care of. I'm not talking about the sun, I'm talking about the human capital, the talent of our researchers. With these budgets we shape one of the objectives that we set ourselves with the law, equip the system with a stable and predictable itinerary for the career and all stages of our research staff. On the one hand, we have approved the largest public offer of employment in science and innovation over the past fifteen years, and in the new budget, research staff will again be regarded, as in the previous two, as priority staff for replacement rates; essential staff, at the same level as education, health and state security forces and bodies. [[applause]] Thus, with a replacement rate of 120 %, for example, every time ten professionals retire, twelve new professionals are incorporated into the public system. Only in the coming year will we be able to incorporate 1983 places of researchers and technicians in the OPI, which will mean renewing more than 12% of the staff of our public science system. In addition, we will strengthen support for the recruitment of young researchers and launch new actions to attract those who had to leave in the last decade. In total, between what remains of this year and 2023, we have convened 3850 places for young researchers predoctoral and postdoctoral. In the case of young pre-doctoral students, we will gradually increase their salary to 75% of the reference salary in all contract annuities, and we will do so over the next four years. In addition, with the increase that will take place this year with the government of Pedro Sánchez and thanks to the approval in 2019 of the Staff Regulations for Training Investigators, we have already revalued their salary by 20%. And also, in order to avoid discontinuities in contracts, we have merged for the first time the call of predoctoral with that of knowledge generation, thus responding to one of the most relevant historical demands, which is not to leave any stage without contract and without contractual coverage for our young people. In addition to these improvements are the new rights approved in the new law on science, compensation for all pre- and post-doctoral contracts at the time of their completion. As you know, this has been one of the great achievements of the new law and it has been applied since its entry into force on 7 September. Therefore, as of 7 September, all new contracts and all contracts that were active are already receiving this contract termination compensation. [[Applauds]] As far as postdoctoral researchers are concerned, in 2023 we will take out again the research consolidation call, which will provide each of these researchers 200 000 euros for their scientific activity and allow them to be incorporated in research centres and universities on a stable basis. In total, with the two calls, this year and next year, 750 researchers will benefit in the consolidation phase. Secondly, we are going to launch for the first time a call to attract high-level researchers, with €40 million. In addition, as is the law, we will improve incentives for the results of the research staff, as experience in the foreigner will be recognised in the five-year period and in the six-year period of transfer. With all these measures we have developed a very significant part of the Plan of attraction and retention of scientific and innovative talent, which we presented and approved in June of this year and whose main objective is to promote the return, retention and attraction of scientific talent to our country. [[Applauds]] And as important as human capital are the projects with which to deal strategically with the future of our country. We want to enhance the entrepreneurial character of our State by promoting initiatives that contribute to the transformation of our country's economy and promote inclusive economic growth, and one such example is the PERTE. In 2023 we will meet the annualities of the calls proposed by our ministry in the rest of the PERTE coordinated with other ministries, such as the PERTE of renewable energies, the Agri-Food PART or the PERTE chip, in which we contribute 835 million euros, while the contribution of the PERTE that we lead is considerably expanded: on the one hand, the PERTE for avant-garde health will increase its public contribution from 982 million euros to 1500 million euros, and on the other, in the Aerospatial PERTE the increased contribution is 350 million euros. Also, as we approved two weeks ago in the Council of Ministers and I will confirm this afternoon in Paris at the ministerial council of the European Space Agency, we will increase Spain's annual contribution to this organisation, so that we move from the current 250 million to the 300 million euros. In total, since 2019 we have increased Spain's contribution to ESA by 50% and now we are the fourth country in the European Union to contribute to it. And I would like to recall the impact of this quota, because, beyond the scientific projects to which we contribute with it - for example, to the Copernicus project, with which we can observe the Earth and with which we were able to predict the volcanic eruption - there is a return georg quota that is very interesting. Thanks to the contribution of our State, this contribution returns to our country in the form of contracts and opportunities for the companies that are in our country and, therefore, for the Spanish companies, so that this contribution to ESA will contribute to a greater growth of the aerospace sector in our country. We will also create two new research bodies: we will launch the new Spanish space agency and the new national Vulcanology Centre will also be created, fulfilling the commitment of the President of the Government to the Canary Islands. In addition, we will launch the innovative public procurement programme for fire prevention, whose objective is to acquire prototypes of first technologically innovative products or services that meet public needs to combat this threat, which is increasingly present today because of climate change. Finally, we are going to launch the call for issues, but this year we have called them transmissions, because it is a call for issues aimed at the transfer of knowledge in which the academic and business world will have to present together, consortia for the resolution of the challenges of the future. And this new call is endowed with 150 million euros. As you know, knowledge transfer is one of the great challenges to change this country's productive model, and that is why in the coming weeks we will present the Knowledge Transfer Plan, endowed with €12 billion, which is based on the budgets of 2023. As you can see, we have a determined commitment to contribute from science and innovation to inclusive economic growth and to change the productive model of our country, repairing people. During the process of the law of science some want to drag us into having to choose between improving workers' conditions or ensuring the stability and excellence of research centres. We always defend and continue to defend that they are compatible and now we do so from the facts and tangible politics. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the new law, the indefinite contract is already the default contract for research staff, also in projects financed from European funds. Moreover, thanks to these new budgets, we will strengthen the funding of research groups and centres of excellence. On the one hand, and as we committed ourselves, we are going to increase the indirect costs by 21%, which the law says to 25% of research projects to strengthen the institutions. And this increase will be made without reducing the direct costs of researchers, i.e. by increasing the funding of calls. In addition, we will move towards a new, less bureaucratic and more flexible funding model, and in this regard announced that with these budgets we will launch a pilot baseline funding project for the research groups of excellence in our country. [[Applauds]] President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. Before concluding, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups who have shown their willingness to support these budgets. Four years ago, we found ourselves in a system of elusive science, more focused on survival than in the future; a public policy on science and innovation subject to urgency and on the basis of restrictive budgets and cuts. At this time we have addressed many of the misadjustments, acting on the precariousness of science workers and designing a new legislative framework. There is a long way to go and these changes take time to work out, but we are convinced that in the near future we will see how these years were the turning point that our science system needed. In fact, we are already seeing the results; among the new social security affiliations, the sector that has grown the most since 2020 in number of affiliates is that of computer science and telecommunications, i.e. the innovation sector, and the third sector that is growing the most is that of scientific and technical activities. If we add the two together, one in four new jobs that are being created in our country are in the field of science and innovation. Therefore, we have gone from expelling our talent to recruiting. [[Applauds]] This will be our legacy and this will be our greatest contribution to the future. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of the amendments, Mr Gimeno has the floor first of all for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Minister of Science and Innovation and honourable Members. Firstly, I take it that the amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group to this section and to all those that will be seen throughout the day have been maintained. Madam Minister, you have heard us in the Commission and in plenary that for us science and innovation are the pillars on which we must support policies for the development of unpopulated areas and territorial cohesion. We have tabled several amendments - some of which have been partially accepted - to increase the economic endowment of the Center for Physical Studies of the Cosmos of Aragon, in Teruel, and others that we would like not to fall into a broken bag, such as the creation of a national research center in dinosaur paleontology. In Spain there is no national center of R+D+i on dinosaur paleontology, although there is a history of paleontological theme in the case of the National Center of Research on Human Evolution, CENIEH, which so excellent results is giving, in Burgos. The province of Teruel, for many aspects, such as the variety of geological ages, number of deposits and diversity of fossils, is the most suitable place to develop this center of dinosaur paleontology. In Teruel almost half of the species of all new dinosaurs discovered in Spain have been found and studied, including the largest dinosaur in Europe, about thirty meters long, called Turiasaurus, the Turia lizard or Teruel. The province also stands out because since 2001 there has been a paleontological park known as Dinópolis. This Centre, as well as progressing in fossil research at both national and international levels, is a true engine of tourism and socio-economic development in much of the territory. In other words, Teruel would be the right place for the creation of this national research centre in dinosaur paleontology. Similarly, I would like to recall a new institution that the budgets are going to finance, the Spanish Space Agency. Madam Minister, you know that we have worked to promote your creation and improve your definition through the law of science and commissions, and you certainly remember that we are belligerent so that the headquarters of a scientific institution of this state can be located according to your capacity to improve territorial cohesion. Therefore, in order to achieve different things, we cannot maintain the same inertias of the past with regard to the headquarters of the country's leading centres. Our proposal for Teruel is not made in the air - never better said - but, on the contrary, is firmly anchored in the resources of the aerospace sector existing in the city itself, such as the industrial airport - without congestion -, the CEFCA, the Astrophysical Observatory of Javalambre, the Polytechnic School, the UNED and also the clear skies, as well as the scientific resources that the University of Zaragoza has and will specialize in the physics of the cosmos and remote sensing in the different areas of engineering in the applications of geographical information systems. But our position is also based on a fact of territorial dynamics. The agency should act as a tractor to strengthen the powerful axis of the aerospace sector that is developing between the Basque Country, Zaragoza, Teruel and the Valencian Community. The location of its headquarters in Teruel would be a very important step towards consolidating this socio-economic axis. We are still in time, the ministry should be sensitive to the position we have put before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, although my colleague has already defended all the amendments in our group, he will allow me to make a brief intervention to defend an amendment that we have pending. We have called for an increase in the subsidy included in the bill for the Cantabria Institute of Environmental Hydraulics, and this is an amendment that is already on the way to becoming a classic among all our amendments. Last year I had the opportunity to remind the Minister of the characteristics of the Institute of Environmental Hydraulics, an institution of the University of Cantabria, the Government of Cantabria, and the School of Engineers of Ways, Canals and Ports of Santander. It is probably one of the five most prestigious coastal institutions in the world, especially in the water cycle. Last year we asked him for an increase in the small amount he has allocated, really very little for the needs he has, and they have put 200,000 euros, an amount is far from what the State brings to other institutions. Last year I also invited her to visit the facilities, which she took advantage of this year to visit also the Institute of Physics of the University of Cantabria, which, together with the Institute of Hydraulics, is one of the two unique scientific-technical institutions in Cantabria. While you've seen it, I'm only going to give you a slight reminder of it, although last year it exposes me much more. The large marine engineering tank that exists there is one of the five added sea infrastructures for hydraulic research. Its tsunami channel, which can shape the wind, wave and currents of the world, has studied over 200,000 kilometres of coastline around the world to alleviate and see the consequences of climate change and has conducted tsunami mitigation studies in more than fifteen countries around the world. But probably the most important of all is related to the production of energy, something fundamental today, as we all recognize, which is offshore energy, that is, the one produced with windmills on the high seas, where this department is heavily betting. [[The lady]] I believe that, surely, the best way to make efficient use of the resources that come from Europe and those available to this department would be by applying them here. It is not enough to remember that one of our main tasks is the fight against climate change. Madam Minister, we are still in time to reach a compromise. It is very simple, you just have to talk to the Ministry of Finance and you will see how it is possible, because I think that in a few places you will find a better use of resources than through this amendment I propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good morning. I support all the amendments to the 2023 budgets that my group has tabled in this section 28. And, in particular, with regard to the Government's veto on one of them, 3789, we are like many other groups, as has been mentioned in this plenary. As we said in the Commission last week, we do not yet know what the real and certain reason is, we do not know how to interpret the veto for increased expenditure, when in our amendment we indicate and specify the discharge of a budget appropriation and also the discharge of another budget appropriation for the same amount. Therefore, if we raise the amount on one site and lower it on another on the same amount, you will tell me how we understand the increase in spending to veto an amendment. In addition, it was related to a transfer of EUR 100 million to ICEMAT, the Centre for Energy, Environmental and Technological Research, precisely to promote research in adaptation to the effects of climate change. Perhaps what is happening is simply that climate change negationism is in the government, and not just in some other group in this House, as has been said. Or perhaps the Government already believes that it has the tools to alleviate climate change and its effects, and no further research is needed. It will be this or it will be worth more the title of President Sánchez regarding that we will give five million to an international alliance against drought, as he has announced precisely at the recent Climate Summit in Egypt, than a transfer of one hundred million to a public research agency in Spain like the ICEMAT precisely to investigate the adaptation against climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, it was precisely this Congress that celebrated last week of the week of Science and ICESMAT invited us on Thursday to know its facilities to make known projects in which we work in fields such as biomedicine, exploration of galaxies or nuclear fusion. However, on climate change no, there will be no research on adaptation to climate change, not at least with the resources that could be used and that we have proposed with our amendment to these budgets, because it seems that climate change, like evictions, simply does not exist. They have also vetoed us from the government to reach jointly between the public and private sectors 3% of gross domestic product in R & D+i by 2030, something that in the Pact for Science and Innovation, proposed a year and a half ago by this government, was its objective, which they then forget in the science law, because it has not been invested as a public sector nor, indeed, does it encourage private investment with aid to companies or by improving the recruitment of researchers and technologists. Or, what is worse, aid is established by the Ministry of Science, and that is to be commended by that department, but then the Department of Finance throws it on the ground, as has happened with the corporate tax subsidies for investments in R & D+i. Similarly, we have been denied the amendment to the 0.7 % box in the IRPF declaration for R & D projects, denying control and transparency for citizens regarding the destination of their taxes. In any case, we continue to defend the rest of our amendments in this section, amendments which we believe are appropriate, timely and necessary in order to promote the science system in Spain. Precisely now that we have launched a law of science, believe me, we are convinced that, despite what you have told us about these budgets, Minister, it is still born caught in resources and means to put it into operation. We have proposed to eliminate in the calculation of the replacement rate for biomedicine researchers precisely because of the challenge in R & D+i that in the health field has entailed the situation that we have experienced after the pandemic. In our amendment 3776 we also proposed an injection of EUR 300 million to the CDTI for the technical provisions fund of the Cervera Network and R & D+i projects that finance the transfer of knowledge to Spanish small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized stock exchanges. Because this fund is a fundamental instrument, for example, for the provision of partially reimbursable aid, direct innovation lines and R & D+i projects involving municipalities to impact innovation on their local productive fabric. This is to promote science and to do so also through other public administrations. In our amendment 3788 we bet for the province of Jaén through a contribution of 50 million euros for the ATLAS Experimental Flight Center to promote a more ambitious R & D agenda in terms of unmanned flights and HAPS, the High Altitude Pseudo Satellites, to run in the next year 2023. In Villacarrillo, in that province of Jaén, we have unique facilities for these purposes in the world and could be given more attention by the Government. In our amendment 3827 we again focus on the promotion of R & D+i with the proposal of a transfer of 50 million euros to local authorities, the provincial council and the municipalities for public purchase of innovation in the province of Alicante, where we already have a powerful ecosystem in this field with companies and universities such as the University of Alicante and Miguel Hernández University. If in anything we stand out in my province, Alicante, it is to be produced for all of Spain and not just for the Alicantes. Since in these budgets we are once again left in the last place and increasingly far removed from the national average in per capita investment, let us at least generate innovation for the whole of Spain and continue to contribute to the gross domestic product as we have done so far. We also bet on our amendment 3977 for the construction in Almeria of a research center for recycling and recovery of agricultural plastic waste, precisely in order to generate innovation, employment and economy in a province where there are more than 30,000 tons of agricultural plastics per year, being the area with the highest concentration of greenhouses and these materials in the world, but also where, through investment in science, we can turn that circumstance into an advantage in terms of R+D+i. Ladies and gentlemen, our amendments in this section seek not only to promote scientific research, but also to produce an economic and social benefit from the research work, and also in different places in the territory of Spain where this development and the benefit produced are necessary or will be further enhanced by the ecosystem in the science system that already exists. We therefore ask you to support these amendments or, if you can, to explain why we should not do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u9	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, go ahead and I understand that it can be shown with some satisfaction today because obviously the resources - and less for a minister of science - will never be sufficient, but it is true that there is a substantial increase in this budget compared to the previous year and more if all non-financial expenditure, excluding European funds, is taken into account. We must recognise this 20% increase and it is a very good basis to talk about the budget of this ministry. However, we have tabled a number of amendments. For the Democratic Party, research, development and scientific innovation are fundamental to the competitiveness of our present and future economy. For the sake of these bases, we have tabled different amendments and I would like to emphasise some and ask for their vote in favour of all the parliamentary groups. Amendment 5311 refers to the CERCA Institution, which are the Research Research Centers of Catalonia. It is an institution that makes all research centers able to collaborate and work corporately. In other budget years we had already called for a contribution, and we are also doing so in this year, of around EUR 1 million, an amendment that I can already make to you that we have an agreement with the Government and that will generate an important benefit in the different research centres in Catalonia, essentially for the acquisition of infrastructures in the scientific and technological fields shared by different centres, which is a novelty. I would also like to draw your attention to Amendment 2917, which contains a contribution that I will explain to you for the ILO, for the Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology, an institution that covers seven research centres of excellence in Catalonia. At the moment they are working, together with the Barcelona Assembly, the Generalitat de Catalunya and the different research centres, on a project for the creation of a complex in the former Mercat del Peix, in the Ciutadella, in order to be able to concentrate different biomedical research centres in the same building. This would make it possible for the Centre de Regulació Genòmica, the Institute of Bioengineering of Catalonia, the Catalan Institute of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology and the Institute of Biomedical Research of Barcelona to share a building and all their researchers to find different synergies. The Generalitat has already made a contribution of 6 million euros, BEAST itself will make a contribution of 2.5 million of its own resources and 3.5 million euros are needed, which I hope will be able to contribute the general budgets of the State, in order to start a very ambitious project, of 70 million euros, which will surely find, once started, different ways of financing. I would therefore like to thank the ministry for its willingness to cooperate with this project. They also drew attention to amendments 2916, concerning the Doctor Ferran Foundation, for the acquisition of material for the biobank in which they are working, and 2912, concerning the foundation of the Universitat Rovira i Virgili, for the development of the Centre for Innovation and Territorial Simulation, a center for simulation of augmented and virtual reality in the field of medical sciences. Finally, I would also like to ask you, Minister, to be sensitive - I am sure they are - because there are different scientific parks which have a very delicate financial situation in the whole Spanish State and also in Catalonia. Today I would like to tell you about the situation in Lleida, which is not exclusive and therefore, even if it is not within the scope of this budgetary framework, we do ask you to be aware that a solution must be sought to refinance part of your appropriations in order to make them viable. In any case, I repeat, I would ask you to vote in favour of the above-mentioned amendments. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Bueno Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u12	Thank you, Madam President. If there is a consensus that can be reached by all the groups or almost all the parliamentary groups that we are in this House, it is that in order to meet the many challenges of the future that we face as a society, we must conceive of it as research, development and science and, ultimately, knowledge as strategic sectors and, therefore, as a fundamental state policy. And in that sense, we believe that these budgets convey that fundamental idea that this country consolidates not only that idea with words, but also with figures. Since the agreement with the Minister's intervention, we would like to highlight a number of issues. As for the first of these, R & D & I, it is true that for the third consecutive year the amount devoted to these budgets for research, development and innovation, marking a new record and increasing with public funds - without having European funds - more than 20% compared to last year. If we look at 2020, it almost doubles that amount, which tells us that science is an undeniable priority for this coalition government. We understand that these budgets have two strategic lines: one is the improvement of the working conditions of research staff and the other is the serious stake for science infrastructure projects. These are budgets aimed at strengthening and supporting our public science, technology and innovation system, strategic areas that are essential for welfare state policies and to meet the challenges of the future. We would like to stress that these budgets regard research staff as a priority for public employment purposes. In this regard, the following questions arise: who can oppose, for example, the incorporation of almost 2000 new positions of researchers and technicians from the OPI? Who can oppose maintaining the 120 % replacement rate for the third consecutive year? Who can oppose increasing support for the recruitment of pre- and post-doctoral staff? Who can also oppose the wage increase in this sector, which, as the minister said, has reached 20% in the last four years, with a commitment to continue to increase? Or who can oppose new calls to bring high-level researchers to our country or a budget line to include compensation for pre- and post-doctoral contracts and recognition of five-year, six-year, etc.? In short, who can oppose an increase in the budget for the CSIC or the Carlos III Institute of Health with a historical budget, which has been key and fundamental in this pandemic context in recent years? Ladies and gentlemen, this shows us that these budgets for science and innovation in the State General Budgets make a considerable effort for public health, because we can only face these public health challenges if we have a robust and flexible public health system in the face of the new threats and for that these budgets for science and innovation are fundamental. There are two issues that the minister also picked up and that we would like to mention here. We think it is important that the Spanish Space Agency and the new Vulcanological Centre of the Canary Islands should be committed and that the law of science should be complied with to devote 1.25 % of the budget until 2030. We're on the way to get over it, and that's always positive. Who can oppose it, ladies and gentlemen? For the usual, those of no for no, those of hate speech, those who at least take you for a walk that if the ETA, the prisoners and the betrayal to Spain, and those who, ultimately, to the least that they can, try to change the focus because they have no other political project than to oppose this coalition government and to oppose the presence even of my parliamentary group or my political party in the Government of Spain. [[rumors]] And to them, to the extreme right, to the extreme right and to the extreme center, which has a slight tendency to always lean to the right, I want to tell you that there are no Christian lawyers or judges who will prevent the Communist Party of Spain from leaving its stamp in the democratic institutions of this country in which we are present, because this democracy, ladies and gentlemen, as much courage as I have hurt, is based on the effort and the surrender of thousands of militants of the Communist Party of Spain, who in the hardest part of the dictatorship even gave their lives so that today you can all be here. [[laughs]] [[rumors]] [[applause.-Rumores.-Mr.Sánchez delReal: And skyscrapers!]] And that bothers you, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u13	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u14	... because as long as there were communists in the institutions he reminded them that there were people who gave their lives for democratic and civil liberties while others were very comfortable living under the protection of the dictatorship. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon utters words that are not perceived.- Rumors]] This democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is more ours than yours, and that hurts you. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Ah, yes!-Various Members: Hala!-Applause]] And it hurts them because in this country we cannot talk about democracy without recognizing the role of the Communist Party of Spain and of those thousands of militants who gave their lives so that today Mr Espinosa de los Monteros may be making gestures in the rostrum. In short, they will not prevent the Communist Party of Spain from putting its stamp where we are or defend the interests of the working class, public services, women's rights, feminist policies, policies to expand social policies or, as in this case, policies to protect the working conditions of researchers and our system of science, innovation and public research. That is the stamp of the Communist Party, ladies and gentlemen, and they will not forbid it by many judges and many Christian lawyers to put us ahead. Health, republic, science and public research, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real: Parachutes!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Well. Mr. Sánchez del Real, silence, please. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Navarro López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I want to tell the Communist MP that he came here to tell us something about his stamp that you didn't hit or seal, and I'm going to tell him why. [[Applauds]] Because you have wondered: who can oppose a 120% replacement rate? You. [[Laughter]] We can stand up to that all your life, but you haven't read it to her, of course. [[Applauds]] So, hit some more stamps, because as for that question you've asked here today about who you're going to oppose, I'm telling you that we've been opposing you all your life, five years. Madam Minister, you are the first of twenty-two ministers to come here today to ask us to support these general state budgets that you have negotiated. To Mr Bel Accensi - I do not see him - I want to say that he does not worry about the technological parks of Catalonia, about the rest of them, because he is in agreement with Esquerra. The law of science came out with the favorable vote of Esquerra, thanks to which you have committed to resolving the debt of the technology parks of Catalonia. That's it. [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes negative gestures]] You say no, in Esquerra they say yes and, if not, look, don't fool her again; let's leave it there. But of course you come here, you agree with Bildu the budgets and you agree with the Catalan independenceists the reform of the Penal Code regarding the sedition and the only ones to which those of the People's Party leave us pearls. You have more responsibility today than the other twenty-one ministers. By the way, none have come; so important will not seem to you this Section 28. You have more responsibility today and I'll tell you why. Because these are the budgets of the science law, which you have approved with the support of the People's Group. [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll: All]] Of course, of all people, yes. You have a broad responsibility because you have a consensus and you have an asset that many other ministers do not have. And he has come here to leave pearls to the People's Party, when today's budgets guarantee the investment of 1.25% of gross domestic product in R & D+i thanks to an amendment by the People's Group. [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes negative gestures]] But don't say no, he always does the same. Then I'll hang those amendments on social media. The amendment that removed the "depending on budget availability" collection is ours. [[applause.-The Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes negative gestures]] Yeah, it's ours, I don't know why he says no, it's ours. [[Rumors]] Hey, I wrote it, it's from the People's Group. Therefore, do not come here today to say what you say, when reality is another. You have more responsibility and you should manage that consensus in another way. Because today we have General State Budgets that should guarantee the law of science, 1.25% investment in GDP and career for all. You have come to say that some did not want labour reform to be implemented. If you did not want labor reform to apply to the law of science! If the text that came out of his Ministry did not apply labor reform to the law of science! It was an amendment from Podemos! [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes negative gestures]] Those who did not want labour reform to be implemented are you; it is your ministry that did not want it. [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes negative gestures]] Again he says no, but again I'll prove it to him later, don't worry, with what I have to prove to him. They come here to say that the general budgets of the state will recognize scientific personnel as essential personnel, something the Socialist Group was unable to do in the pandemic. The scientists were confined, losing historical research series because their Government did not declare them essential personnel. So, now put on whatever medals you want, but the reality, Minister, is another. The Group of the European People's Party has tabled 30 amendments amounting to EUR 400 million - amendments which, by the way, I believe - and you have vetoed eleven. You have the consensus of all groups on the Bureau and we have eleven amendments. Scientists are asking us this week why we don't agree more often. What I have to say to the Spanish scientific sector is that of the thirty amendments that we have tabled, eleven have been vetoed by your Government for reducing income. The government that has the most money in its pocket, because it has squandered that of the Spaniards, is concerned that we improve revenues. That's what he told us. They have vetoed us amendments that make a better research career; they have vetoed us amendments that guarantee 1.25 %; they have vetoed us amendments that increase investment in volcanic research; they have vetoed us an amendment, Minister, from the Valencian Community, to investigate the Xylella, that bacteria that affects the citrus fruits of their autonomous community so much. What is vetoing an amendment? That you can't even argue. But how bad are they or how scared they are that they can't argue? Because they're under-receiving? Do you really want to tell us that this consensus uses it to bring down amendments without debate? But in addition, we do not want amendments from a government that is unable to execute more than 30% of the innovation games according to Cotec, which is chaired by the former socialist minister Garmendia, and not according to the Group of the European People's Party. [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes negative gestures]] We are told by a government that has been able to manage only 6% of European funds according to the AIReF and not according to the Group of the European People's Party. We are told by a government that is putting €3.5 billion in investment in innovation at risk because the Minister of Finance does not understand with you the tax deductions to R & D+i. You veto amendments and between you are unable to manage a budget, I don't know if because you don't know or because you don't want to. Use the consensus of the law, do not fall for amendments only by ideological criteria and negotiation, as it negotiates with Esquerra or Bildu, also with the rest. Because you come here to ask us for support for some budgets, but 100 % of the Group of the European People's Party's amendments fall to the ground, all of them, Madam Minister. That is to collect the glove of consensus in a very peculiar way, at least from our perspective. Because, do you really tell me that there is no amendment that goes in line that you defend in the budgets? None? Because there are many, and you know it, that are from scientific collectives that are every day working on the fight against cancer, researching emerging diseases in our universities, in our OPI and in all infrastructures, and you have vetoed absolutely all of them. The People's Group will continue to fight for law enforcement, for investing in science, for investing in a better career and for investing in changing the economic model. We will continue to defend our amendments with other initiatives and, if they are so clear that these budgets are the ones that Spain needs, do not veto any amendments, even if they come from the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro. I have the floor, Mrs Borrás Pabón, on behalf of the VOX Group, to set positions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u18	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, minister. Today we discuss the budgets for 2023 of the Ministry of Science and Innovation in a country where only the consumption of Jabugo ham in Moncloa is higher than the average salary of a researcher in Spain. [[Applauds]] These are budgets in which you, Minister, say to prioritize science, but the only thing that you prioritize is your ideology, your globalist agenda and, of course, you yourself, with millionaire items in institutional advertising. The Government of Spain had never spent so much or so badly. The budgets that Spain needs must include a high, courageous and transformative percentage of investment in science and innovation, with a rationalization of expenditure, taking into account not only how much, but above all how, in order for real budgetary policies to improve the working conditions of scientists, to reduce bureaucracy, to increase flexibility and agility in the management of public research bodies, to retain and attract real talent, if we compare with wages in an international context, and to boost a growing investment in R & D+ i. Did we get it from these budgets? The answer is no. Firstly, because of the current macroeconomic context. The very high inflation we suffer is actually causing the funds available for science and innovation to be even at risk of being lower than the previous year, and this does not say VOX, this has been denounced by the Confederation of Scientific Societies of Spain, minister. Without going any further, do you know the huge increase in costs that you are putting on research centres and universities simply paying off energy bills? Triplicated costs that you have to deduct, of course, from the budget that you allocate to research, a situation that further precariouss your activity and that you have caused, minister, so less blows to the chest. Secondly, because of your constant attacks on tax deductions on R & D+i because you and the Minister of Finance are not clear as to the bases of deduction, putting at risk not only our legal certainty, but the 3.5 billion euros per year of investment in R & D+i that Spain needs so much. Thirdly, because one third of the funds of this ministry are European funds that have an expiry date, until 2024. And then what? What will happen when they are not or, worse, if you fail to execute them, as we already see happening? Today only 5% of the Parties have been resolved, a small 5% of the total in all these months, which makes it impossible to allocate all the necessary investments in time. [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes negative gestures]] These budgets should be designed to replace in the coming years all this money from European funds in funds of national origin, and what is contained in these spending policies is simply contrary to this path. How are we going to increase national funds in research and innovation if most of them have to come from the private sector, as is already the case in Germany and the UK, and you are working to sabotage our main instrument to encourage research and development, which are these tax deductions to R & D+i that I am commenting on? If we add to all this the almost chronic problem that these budgets do not solve, which is the low percentage of financial funds that are being implemented, which do not reach half, we can conclude that these budgets are not, by far, in line with the objectives that we must set ourselves for the policies of science and innovation in Spain. If that were not enough, these general budgets of the State as a whole intoxicate everything they touch with their ideology and sectarianism and in this case, unfortunately, also science. They intend to include their sick gender dimension in research through initiatives such as the creation of a gender equality badge in R & D+i for the centres or the creation of chiringuitos that, by the way, deprive researchers such as the Women Science and Innovation Observatory, the unity of equality or the unity of women and science, and not only that, but also seek to impose scientific and technological vocations on girls and young women. [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes negative gestures]] Yes, I say impose, and in this sense I would like to ask you the following: do you know the Nordic paradox, Minister? I think I've told him before. This study shows that in more developed countries with a higher degree of gender equality, such as Nordics, women tend to choose less often to work or study in the fields of science, technology, engineering or mathematics. Do you know why, minister? Because there is a greater quality of life and freedom in welfare States and, therefore, the academic strengths and personal interests of women prevail. In other words, their obsessive sectarianism over diversity does not prevail over freedom or meritocracy. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the participation of the female labour force in mining is 7.5% compared to 92.5% of men. Don't you want equity there, minister? Why don't I see mining women's development workshops or support for women's development in mining, Minister? Why not? Let women choose in peace. Finally, but not least, I would like to stress the missed opportunity of these budgets to co-ordinate and reduce territorial inequalities in R & D & I, especially in rural Spain, bearing in mind that investment of this kind is a key indicator for the development of the regions. We know that this government shows a strange preference for favouring criminals, from beatings and bildutars to rapists and sexual aggressors, while it has no objection to subjecting the Spaniards to the most ironic and strict of convictions: more taxes, more ruin, more unemployment and more indebtedness. Ladies and gentlemen, the one who produces while others have his production is a slave. With these budgets, minister, they have turned the Spaniards into slaves of sanchismo. Let the Spaniards decide, call elections and, with all the empirical evidence of the data, leave, minister. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. For the Socialist Group, Mr Alfonso Cendón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u20	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Morant, thank you for your detailed explanations of your commitment and tireless work on these budgets, the highest in our history, which invest EUR 4 billion in science and innovation in our country. It is a thank you not only personal, but of the thousands of Spanish and Spanish who will benefit from the prosperity of these decisions. Thank you, Minister. [[Applauds]] These are the budgets of social justice and economic efficiency, the budgets that consolidate R & D & I as a fundamental pillar of our welfare state, responding to our main challenges and firmly and unequivocally betting on science and innovation as fundamental tools to ensure our progress and development. Moreover, these are the first budgets since the adoption of the law of science, a historical debt fulfilled by this government that has marked one before and one after in our country, in our scientists and researchers, in universities and in research centers that, with these budgets and with these headings, perfect our national system of science with more contracts; with the most important public employment offer in the last fifteen years; with better working conditions, such as compensation for all predoctoral and postdoctoral contractors, and with a determined bet for new and ambitious projects that allow our country to look towards a better future, demonstrating the commitment of the Spanish government to make these investments sustainable over time and consolidating a trend that will allow our country to converge with Europe thanks to the doubling of investment in science and innovation since 2020, with a 98% increase in just three years, revealing the enormous effort to prioritize R+D+i as a bet for a future of hope and progress. These budgets allow us to talk about the four-year period of science, with benefits in the present but especially in the future, which will serve to continue to drive the great changes that our country needs, such as the ecological transition, the digitisation of the economy, social and territorial cohesion and, of course, gender equality, the lordship of VOX. This is a historic day. We can state strongly with data and with evidence that we have finally left behind the lost decade of the People's Party that, with unprecedented cuts in investment in R & D+i, has devastated the future of many of our scientists and scientists, condemned to labor and professional exile outside our country. [[applause]] Investment in science can never be pendulum, we cannot move forward to go back, it has to be maintained in time as this government is doing. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, the sad thing is that, far from showing some kind of change, some kind of commitment to the science and innovation of your country, you continue to be completely alienated from reality, without touching the ground. They do not know the reality of their country's research centres, universities and scientific staff. There are many indicators that show that their model is anchored in a nineteenth-century world, in ancient times, because they have not changed or learned anything in all this time. Without going any further, the amendment to the whole of these budgets does not include the word science; zero. [[Applauds]] This could have been a mistake was reiterated by the spokesman, Cuca Gamarra, during the debate. He did not mention science and innovation not once; zero again. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, zero potato is what matters to you the science and innovation of your country. [[Applauds]] Wake up, please! We have been in the 21st century for more than two decades. Mr Navarro, I know you defend science and I have listened to you carefully, but I also wanted to review the interventions you made last year to justify the non-approval of these science budgets. You spoke only of the projects being carried out by the Spanish Government: you spoke of the law of science that we have already adopted; you spoke of the National Vulcanology Centre, which you recognize is a reality today and that it will be launched soon, and you spoke of the working conditions of the scientific staff, a historical demand always defended by the Socialist Party and which, thanks to us, is in the law of science. But listening to him today I think his arguments are increasingly pilgrims, even rosing the esoteric. I can no longer understand what arguments are left for them not to support these budgets. Well, I do understand it and I will say it to you: your leader, Mr. Feijóo, who remains anchored in the 'worst, better'; who continues to pay for negationism; who continues to pay for the extreme right; who questions climate change; who even questions the deployment of renewable energies in our country, and who lately even shows historical revisionism, nothing upbuilding and unreasonable for someone who considers himself moderate, because it is not really so. [[Applauds]] That's why I recommend that you read, read in detail, and then deliberate and choose a new leader with more boards and more solvency to get you out of this stalemate you're going through and out of this scientific negationism. [[Rumors]] In the meantime, I assure you that in the PSOE we will continue to defend the values of Illustration, the use of reason and science to address the great challenges of our society, as the Government does with these budgets that place our country above the path of public investment marked as a goal in the law of science, strengthening the capabilities and operationality of our national science system, increasing resources for the OPI, for the State Research Agency and for the CDTI to advance in the stabilization of the scientific career and the return of talent, improving the transfer of knowledge and ultimately achieving a system of science commensurate with the excellence of our scientists and researchers. Ladies and gentlemen, we need these budgets to move forward. This is the time to demonstrate your commitment, that of your parliamentary groups, to the science and innovation of our country, as they did in the law of science. I encourage you once again to put your shoulder together and support these budgets that are necessary to make Spain a more productive, more competitive, more prosperous, more sustainable and more just country to live in. Nobody escapes that investing in science, but with capitals, as this government does, Spain advances and we all win. To conclude, allow me a small license. Let me remind Pablo Milanés, who has left us today and who will always accompany us with his songs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Alfonso. We continue with the debate on sections 12, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, and 34, Financial Relations with the European Union. For the presentation of the sections, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u22	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear to outline the budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation for the year 2023, which are aligned with our priorities for the coming year. In a convulsive, complex and volatile international context, such as the current one, the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation is fundamental, implementing a European foreign and cooperation policy that has and will continue to have the defence of the Spaniards and their interests and the projection of their values as a top priority, because the vaccines we put ourselves to protect ourselves against the COVID-19, the currency we use or our security can only be guaranteed to work together with our partners, friends and allies in the world. That is why firm, determined and committed external action is needed to protect our citizens, our families, our businesses, and to project our values into the world. For this reason, the budget of the department that I am running for 2023 amounts to EUR 2009 million, an increase of 14.26% compared to 2022, that is, EUR 250.73 million more in absolute terms to carry out a foreign policy at the service of the Spanish citizens and to deepen the modernization of the foreign service of Spain; all this in order to continue working on the priority lines of our external action. First of all, peace and security, in order to bring peace back to Europe as soon as possible and thus guarantee the security of the Spaniards, betting on multilateralism and the United Nations to solve the global problems we face. Secondly, to maintain our commitment to official development assistance and cooperation in addressing the food crisis, the energy crisis and the humanitarian crisis that are currently devastating the world. Thirdly, we are strongly projected and led Europe during our Presidency of the European Union in the second half of next year. Fourthly, to promote our common language and our co-official languages and our culture in the world. Finally, to ensure the care and protection of almost three million Spaniards living abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, Russia's aggression against Ukraine has shown us that we must redouble our efforts to protect world peace and security, which is an absolute priority of Spain's external action. This year we have had the responsibility of hosting a NATO summit that was historic because of the importance of what was agreed in the Madrid Strategic Concept and for the success of its organization by Spain. In that regard, we will continue to work with our partners within the Alliance and the European Union to protect peace. Spain wishes to remain a constructive actor in the maintenance and pursuit of international peace and security and, therefore, we are promoting our candidature to the United Nations Security Council as a non-permanent member for the period 20312032, which will be our sixth term. In addition to an illegal, unjust and unjustified aggression that is causing thousands of victims and a great deal of suffering to the civilian population, Russia's aggression against Ukraine has broken the pillars of the international order that illuminated the fall of the Berlin Wall. We are at a defining moment for Europe in which two models are faced, that of European construction, that of tolerance and democracy, and the authoritarian model of Vladimir Putin. Putin's aggression against Ukraine has also led to a food and energy crisis that adds to other challenges already present, such as climate change or digital transformation. We must deal with all this by cooperating multilaterally, because only by doing things well outside will it be good for the Spaniards within our borders. Multilateralism is key to addressing these global challenges and, therefore, in these general state budgets we maintain Spain's commitment to multilateralism and the United Nations, paying special attention to actions in defence of human rights with a total credit of €505.59 million, of which €39.23 million will be earmarked for voluntary contributions to international agencies and €364 million will continue to support the work of United Nations agencies and fulfil our commitments under the 2030 Agenda. Spain's commitment to multilateralism is also exemplified by the growing presence of the United Nations system in our own country, in our territory. Over the past year, we have continued to work to expand the United Nations Information and Communications Technology Centre in Quart de Poblet, Valencia, with new facilities that can accommodate the digital technology departments of Unicef and the International Organization for Migration. The United Nations Counter-Terrorism Centre has also recently opened a new headquarters in Madrid, with which we will collaborate in the implementation of counter-terrorism projects. Barcelona will host the Giga Technology Centre, the UN program to digitally connect all schools in the world, and last October 31st we inaugurated in Bilbao the headquarters of the Secretariat of the 2030 Local Coalition, the United Nations agency in charge of coordinating the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals at the levels closest to citizens. But the food crisis, the energy crisis and the climate crisis remain pressing challenges, probably the most pressing in the world today. We must take urgent measures to minimize its impact and to prevent it from leading to serious humanitarian crises. Addressing these crises through international cooperation is, therefore, and will continue to be, a priority for our external action in the next budget. The budgets for 2023 reflect the largest increase in official development assistance in our country since 2011, reaching 4419.15 million euros. In particular, the ministry I run will contribute to official development aid in 2023 with EUR 1118.81 million; this represents an increase of EUR 206 million and 23% more than the general state budgets of 2022. This commitment to international cooperation for sustainable development is a constant sign of the identity of this Government. Official development aid has thus risen to 0.28% in 2022 and will reach 0.34% of gross national income in 2023, following a path of sustained growth. As I said before, for the Spaniards to go well inside we have to do things well outside, much more in the current international context, because it is also necessary for our neighbours, our partners and our friends in the world to go well, since international cooperation is investment in the well-being of the world that results in investment in the well-being of the Spaniards. That is why in 2023 we will continue to be donors to institutions such as FAO, IFAD and the World Food Programme. At the summit on food security, which Spain chaired on the margins of the last General Assembly of the United Nations, we announced that we have allocated a total of 236.5 million euros for various projects in the field of food security over the next three years. Spain will also continue to promote health as a global public good and universal access to the COVID-19 vaccine, which is far from being eradicated in many countries around the world. For this reason, over the next three years we have allocated over €237 million to the health sector, of which $130 million will go to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. In addition, next year we will continue to support the people and Government of Ukraine in their defence of peace, freedom, territorial integrity and sovereignty by sending humanitarian aid. Earlier this month, I delivered thirty ambulances equipped with emergency consultation and treatment materials to girls, adolescents and pregnant women in Kiev, and to attend childbirth. Last Friday fourteen generators donated by Spain went out to Ukraine through its cooperation agency, AECID, to alleviate the needs created by attacks on that country's energy infrastructure. Actions like this, which have been many during the war, will be supported by the budget of our cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is playing an active role in proposing fair responses to the global crisis, acting with solidarity in Europe and internationally. This leadership of Spain will be projected with special force during the Spanish Presidency of the European Union in the second half of next year. The Spanish Presidency will be one of the most important moments in our foreign policy in many years. We held the previous Presidency in 2010 and it will not be until at least 13 years after we re-chair the Council of the European Union. Spain's European policy is not separate - you know perfectly well - from our internal policy, and that is precisely why our Presidency must be a country project. The Spanish Presidency will not only be important for the Spanish, it will also be important for the Europeans. Europe today more than ever needs Spanish leadership, strong leadership and ambitious momentum, if we are to live up to the challenges we face and successfully face them. The Spaniards can and must offer that leadership; that is what is expected of us in our next presidency. We are one of the most European societies on the continent. We are one of the countries with the highest demographic and economic weight in the Union and, therefore, the ministry I lead has budgeted a total of 19.61 million euros to finance staff costs and costs of organizing conferences and meetings, and to adapt spaces and investments for the organization of the sixty-two meetings planned by the ministry I lead. In 2023 we will also continue to work for the impetus of our culture, our common language and our co-official languages, all using our common heritage as a factor for economic growth and also for competitiveness and international influence. The Cervantes Institute, a great reference in this task, will have a budget of 167.5 million euros - which is 4% more than the previous year - that will be destined to the improvement of the network of centers, the adaptation of the expenses to the levels of IPC and to cover the expenses necessary to maintain and increase the levels of own income and to cover the costs deriving from the new centers in Los Angeles and Seoul and the Global Observatory of Spanish that will be based in La Rioja, as well as to put into operation the new extension in Bangalore dependent on the already existing center in New Delhi. Also, through the Secretariat of State for Ibero-America and the Caribbean and Spanish in the World, €200,000 will be allocated for the convening of a line of grants for activities of interest for the promotion and expansion of Spanish beyond our borders. Finally, in this very complex world, we must ensure the care and protection of the nearly three million compatriots living outside our borders. That is why we will strengthen our network of Spanish embassies and consulates in the world. Our presence and activity abroad will be allocated 45% of the budget, i.e. EUR 899 million, with the aim of providing good service and protecting our citizens living outside. The consular action has an appropriation of EUR 3.37 million, of which EUR 2.3 million is earmarked for aid for the protection of Spaniards abroad, i.e. aid to welfare institutions, such as subsistence and extraordinary economic aid; aid to Spaniards deprived of their liberty in foreign prisons; and aid to manage the potential repatriations of Spaniards, with special follow-up in the case of repatriations of victims of gender-based violence. In addition, these budgets incorporate 49.25 million euros of the European Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience to accelerate the integral digital transformation of our consular service and give impetus to the digital teaching of Spanish abroad. The strengthening of the consular service will also serve to respond to the many needs arising from the repeal of the requested vote and the adoption of the Democratic Memory Act, which will allow children and grandchildren of Spanish exiles to opt for Spanish nationality. Ladies and gentlemen, in the development of our European foreign and cooperation policy, the human team of the ministry I lead is fundamental. In 2023 we will have 5961 public employees, of which 4624 are destined abroad and 1337 in central services. Staff costs will be increased by 7.73 per cent over the previous year, which will allow the needs to be adjusted to economic reality and the effects of inflation to be mitigated. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting a draft budget to meet the priorities of Spain's external action with a foreign policy that responds to the great current challenges and the international context - the most convulsed since the fall of the Berlin wall - marked by the war in Ukraine and its economic and social consequences that have led to a global crisis. It is a foreign policy that is strongly committed to inclusive, effective and peace-building multilateralism; international cooperation to provide fair responses to these crises; promoting peace along with security; continuing to promote the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals; contributing to food security; protecting human rights; promoting an inclusive ecological and digital transition; and strengthening Spain's presence in the United Nations system. All of this being very aware that we will have to lead the European Union next year since its presidency. In short, these budgets aim to support a foreign policy which has as its main objective the protection and defence of the interests of the Spaniards abroad and of the Europeans during our Presidency, which will also benefit us within our borders. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u24	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we have been warning for weeks that these general state budgets for 2023 are born doomed. The macroeconomic scenario envisaged by the Government has already been denied by the International Monetary Fund and by independent entities such as the Banco de España, AIReF or Funcas. Not only that, but in addition to the erroneous forecasts, we know that these general budgets are born addicted. It is unacceptable that in a critical situation such as the current one, with an inflationary crisis and the threat of more economic repercussions from the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Government decides to allocate 41.8% of our country's public resources only to the payment of pensions. This is something that my colleague, Maria Muñoz, has said and repeated to this Government on numerous occasions. It is an election year and in this election year they decide to approve an extraordinary pension increase of 19 billion euros, instead of focusing on investing to make this situation more sustainable for middle-class families, for young people and also for our businesses and self-employed. In addition, the Government refuses to make good use of European funds. From Citizens we have already warned that Europe is not an automatic cashier and that it is necessary to use these funds to make quiet reforms and not cosmetic changes. Unfortunately, the Government is renouncing these reforms and prefers to adopt legislation with minor changes or, as in the case of the Celaá Act or the pension reform, with changes that do not really address the problem, respectively, of early school leaving or the sustainability of the pension system. For the government to approve anything is good as long as it is sufficient for the European Commission and put a tick alongside the commitment made in the recovery plan. However, the liberals will say it again: that is not enough. This historic opportunity for recovery funds cannot be missed, let alone lost only by the shyness of a Government in making decisions about important reforms that are pending. It is of no use for the Government to presume laws passed in this House if those laws do not address the real problems of the Spanish people and do not undertake the necessary reforms for our country to grow and be competitive in the twenty-first century. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments to this effect, so that the government has to respect the European guidelines when it comes to using European funds. These funds come with conditions and, if they are not complied with, the European Union can paralyse shipments or'command the return of such funds. We do not want Spain to be seen as a country that does not comply with its European commitments simply, as I say, because of the shyness of the government to solve and carry out structural reforms. In addition, we have proposed to strengthen the government's accountability for the use of these European funds, forcing Parliament to be informed of any changes in the allocation of these funds. In this sense, the liberals understand the importance of foreign and European affairs to Spain's reputation in the world. In order to carry out the work of this ministry, we in Citizens have also tabled several amendments aimed at improving our foreign service and opening the doors of the Administration to the first talent we have in our country. For example, we have proposed a specific budget of almost EUR 1 million for the creation of a programme of paid practices for professionals. This programme, to which we have baptized Margarita Salaverría in honour of the first Spanish diplomatic woman, would allow professionals who have recently graduated or experienced in the private sector also to gain experience in the administration through a stay in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation or in the AECID. This stay is also complementary to another in the network of Spanish embassies and consulates around the world or in the technical cooperation offices of AECID in other developing countries in which Spanish cooperation operates. In short, it is an opportunity to take advantage of the talent of young people in our country and also to break the unacceptable practice of the Administration to offer unpaid practices and thus prevent many middle-class families from being able to afford this training for their children. We have also tabled an amendment to allocate EUR 300,000 to accompany Spanish professionals in their access to the institutions of the European Union. In a year when Spain holds the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union, we believe that it is necessary, more necessary than ever, to give the Spaniards these positions of relevance and decision-making in Brussels and to give them the importance they deserve; it is important, of course, that other countries whose economic and demographic weight in the European Union is smaller than that of Spain, such as the Netherlands or Poland, have been able to play better and encourage their nationals to reach positions of responsibility. With this budget we hope that we can accompany our professionals, help them to make contacts and prepare for the European opposition, so that Spain will be better represented in the institutions of the European Union in Brussels and in the various executive agencies. We have also tabled another series of amendments - strikingly, moreover, we have done so in other general budgets of the State - which have not even wanted to review, and they do not because, obviously, they do not come from the hands of their partners, and that is not good for our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u26	Thank you, President. The truth is that if you review the budgetary debates of recent years, what you see is a clear thing: a right, that of the People's Party, which, by defending neoliberal policies that have failed throughout the world, is radicalizing and approaching an ultra-right, that of VOX, which is now increasingly being a grotesque caricature of itself. Let's go over there, ladies and gentlemen. When the pandemic broke down to Angela Merkel, nothing suspected of leftism, she understood that the failed recipes of 2008 could not be repeated, that debt had to be shared and that European funds had to be created for recovery. And what did the People's Party do at the time? He opposed the governments of southern Europe that we went to fight for these funds and, with absolute disloyalty, he sided with those who said that our grandmothers, our teachers, our doctors were too lazy and that, therefore, we had to cut pensions, we had to cut labour rights and implement the cut-off policies that were applied in Greece in the previous crisis. Then, when we got out of the pandemic and the war came, even the International Monetary Fund said that there would be no recovery if multinational companies that had had excessive profits were not taxed. And what did the People's Party do? For he took Elizabeth Truss as an example, the British minister who had the great idea of lowering taxes on the richest, even if that meant the degradation of public services and leaving thousands of families and small and medium-sized enterprises - shame, ladies and gentlemen - and do you know where Elisabeth Truss is today? It is set in a corner of its house and failure has been so overwhelming, so evident, that the British right itself has had to resort to a minister like Sunak, who, out of pure survival, has had nothing but to defend the rise of the corporation tax on energy and big fortunes. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have continued there, decided to lock yourself in a room, to put a paper bag in your head as if reality did not exist, and, like the neoliberalism that you defend makes waters everywhere, you have decided that it was best to put a face on tough franchisors and try to look like VOX as much as possible. And they did it in foreign policy. When the pandemic broke out, Mr Abascal decided that the time had come to turn his back on Europe, to climb to Babieca, the Cid's horse, and fight for the Iberosphere, a sort of new Spanish imperial project. And there they were, turned into the new party of the commanders, to support the troupes of Bolsonaro, the demans of Piñera and Ivan Duque, the miserable coup d'Añez in Bolivia, and to plead with Trump, who served as head of the entire band. And what did the People's Party do? Simply imitate VOX, support the same blows, support the same far-rights, change Hermann Tertsch for the Marquis of Vargas Llosa, and send Isabel Díaz Ayuso, disguised as Hernán Cortés, to insult the Government of Mexico and its indigenous peoples for refusing in the 21st century to be treated as a mere colony. The worst part of all this is that this foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, full of neo-colonial velocities, is having a correspondence in an internal policy that is increasingly sectarian, ultra-montane and more exclusive. Is VOX going to say that you have to apply the roller on the Catalan, the Basque, the Galician or the Asturian? For there goes the People's Party behind, increasingly radicalized, trampling on the Constitution that you claim to defend and chanting the screams of rigor of Spain big, one and free of the dictatorship era. Does VOX come out to attack and offend with lies thousands of refugees and migrant families who live and work among us? That is where the radicalised People's Party will be towing, competing in an increasingly insulting xenophobia and demagogy. Does VOX come out to release the frivolity and immorality that in times of Francoism lived better? For there comes the People's Party of Almeida eliminating the memory of the poet Miguel Hernández and exalting in the eyes of Europe and the world a fascist and confessed coup player like Millán-Astray. But do you know what the worst is, ladies and gentlemen of the right? That the world does not go in the direction that you would like, that the furious neoliberalism that you defend has been shown to be a fiasco when it comes to ensuring health, housing, education for all, caring for our elders, preserving our rivers, preserving the planet, and that this socially and environmentally predatory, racist and sexist capitalism that you defend is a brakeless locomotive that is leading us to collective suicide as a species. And that is not what we, ladies and gentlemen, are saying by the British people who went out to the streets to say enough is enough, a sort of thing that is enough to expoliate the public, what it is all about; that was said on 5 November by the hundreds of thousands who went out to the streets in Italy asking for the end of nuclear weapons, of war and posing the struggle for peace as an indispensable condition for achieving more social and environmental justice; millions of women, young people, of poor black population who have stopped their feet at Trump's macho and classist arrogance, and who will very soon send it to the trash of history; and the mobilized people of Madrid who have reminded us, with Labordeta in memory, that living decently is to do what you gain for the benefit of very few, but to take care of ourselves and to ensure that everyone's freedom is compatible with the freedom of everyone. I tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the right, not only as a Member for Barcelona, but also as a proud Member of the Overseas: neither Latin America nor Africa are going to be either the submissive Iberian sphere or the backyard you would like. It will not be Latin America, where the peoples who seemed doomed to a hundred years of loneliness have decided to take fate into their hands and give themselves a new opportunity on earth. Neither the Bolsonaro nor the Uribe nor the Kast nor the Añez have prevailed. His hatred has not prevailed and the economic policies that generated him have not prevailed. Today in Latin America there are millions who refuse to be mere pieces of colonial projects of others instead of the well-being and freedom of their own peoples, and there are also millions who once again dream of the egalitarian dream of Bartolina Sisa, of Bolivar, of San Martín, of Violeta Parra, of Lázaro Cárdenas, of the 'ancestras' of Marielle Franco and of France Márquez. [[Applauds]] If Latin America is giving a lesson in dignity, it will also give Africa, which, despite the crimes committed against its peoples, will not agree to put its resources at the service of a new environmental and energy expoliation, and sooner than later it will speak with the voice of Lumumba, Thomas Sankara, Amilcar Cabral. Neither savage capitalism nor furious neoliberalism nor the fascist threat of radicalized right-wings will be able to stop the message of hope that the global South sends to all mankind. In these harsh times that hope must be defended from institutions and also from the streets. I learned this, ladies and gentlemen, from women to whom I owe everything: the mothers and grandmothers of Plaza de Mayo, like Hebe de Bonafini, who just left us. [[Applauds]] The dictatorship called them crazy, but they, every Thursday with their handkerchiefs, planted their faces on the street and defended the dream of a freer and fairer society.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u27	Mr. Pisarello, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u28	May the example of mothers, grandmothers and Hebe's memory help us to keep walking with their white handkerchiefs by flag. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u30	Good morning. Mr. Alvarez, let me start by denying you the oldest, telling you you're wrong. Only by doing things right inside will we be able to project a good image outside, contrary to what you have said. [[Applauds]] That is why I say to you: budgets that are based on completely outdated macroeconomic forecasts, that fail to comply with the principle of transparency, efficiency in the allocation of resources, universality, the principle of institutional loyalty by throwing at some autonomous communities and rewarding others, do you think this helps you to improve the deteriorated external image of Spain? I will also tell you that ours is not the image of Spain that you have. You believe that the image of Spain is that Mr Sánchez should make a photo book with all possible international agents. We are referring to a country image which is the fourth economy of the euro, a country which must have the capacity to influence, credibility, an agenda of its own, priorities and which should have interests to defend. That is what we have devoted our amendments to, but nothing of it. We know nothing about the negotiation on Gibraltar or the opening of commercial customs in Melilla, much less about the normalization of our relations with the main supplier of gas, which is Algeria, at the door of a very critical winter; nothing, because that would be to solve the real problems of the citizens, because that requires height of vision, professionalism, rigorous and serious work, and for that you have not come. You have come to the easy way: to change prisoners for budgets, to pardon those who tried to break Spain, to suppress the crime of sedition and, even, to modify the crime of embezzlement and, now, to improve the lives of rapists and sexual abusers. Tell me, what are you going to tell international institutions like the European Court of Human Rights, which has supported Spain in the face of secessionists, now that you say that we have to change the law?, that you were wrong before or that you are wrong now? How are you going to explain to the European Union the reduction of penalties for rapists? Now you can't blame the People's Party for that. This has been done by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of Podemos, its partner in government, who considers NATO to be a murderous organization. There is no way to explain it, Minister. They are the only government in the world that constantly contradicts and amends itself and always manages to make it worse. All that for 12 more months in the Moncloa. It is true that six of them, as has been said here, are of the Spanish Presidency of the European Union. We still don't know any of the priorities or any programs, but we do have one thing clear: you are going to make a great photo book, which is what really counts. They do not care to help Ukraine - there is not a single specific budget item in all budgets - nor to settle the Sahara dispute, nor to recompose ties with Algeria, nor to facilitate the negotiating table with Venezuela - for that is Macron - nor to defend women in Iran, despite the fact that you are filled with diplomacy and feminist foreign policy. He only cares about his couch and for one more day in it, they sell whatever it is and whoever it is. In his case, it is true that with Moratinos and Zapatero through. Thus, one day he recognizes Guaidó as president-in-charge, the next day he takes a picture with Maduro's minister; one day they bring Brahim Gali and the next day they hand over the Sahara Morocco by letter; one day they break with Algeria, the next day we are the country of the European Union that has increased the purchase of gas to Russia. A veritable misconception with which it is impossible to have neither respect nor credibility, so don't tell us stories, Mr Albares. We have tabled nine amendments which I support and which have not accepted any of us. Is that how you understand state policy? As you do not change, it will be the Spaniards who will soon change you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Gazquez Collado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u32	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with a budget that does not comply with cooperation, nor does it actually comply with anything, which is disallowed by all economic institutions. Budgets that will be approved by other groups by multiple concessions: historical memory to Bildu, to rewrite history; to suppress the crime of sedition to the letter of independence; to suppress the embezzlement to all who stand ahead. They're developing the state and they don't care, they just care to stay there. What matters the least is the well-being of citizens. The international cooperation budget, as you know, is unambitious: without a programme and without a strategy, without a master plan to guide it. Like other years - we are already used to this - with inflated items, such as financial cooperation, which are not implemented year after year. Last year, EUR 300 million remained unimplemented in financial cooperation. Minister, you've been working on ODA, but you know that your ministry barely manages 25%. I take it that our amendments are being defended, but please accept them; indeed, try them. They collect demands from the sector and citizens, and substantially improve this budget. Among other things, our amendments contain actions necessary and specific for women, to consolidate their rights and freedoms, our rights and our freedoms. This is working for women and not as that useless minister, as my colleague Victor Píriz defined her very well yesterday. And this is not a disqualification, it's a qualification, it's a description. It's useless because it's not useful. I was warned what was going to happen. Here my colleague Marta González said it in the Commission and said it in plenary. Multiple institutions have said so. What was going to happen was going to happen, and, above all, the luxury of criticizing judges is allowed when she would not approve a single issue of the judicial examination. How can a minister be so arrogant and so frivolous that she is putting aggressors and rapists on the street? God forgive her because I, frankly, can't. Mr. Honrubia - who I don't know if he's here - yesterday insulted my partner Victor Píriz and I won't let him go. Victor Píriz is no sexist. He simply defined the minister as useless, which is what it is, and I will not allow it. In addition, let Mr Honrubia say so, when there are Members of this House of every political sign that we are joking about creating an association against machismo that Mr Honrubia brings to us. Finally, and finally, Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to you and the Socialist Group as a whole to the consensus and agreement on the new cooperation law. We have very few days left, we will close its processing circle in Congress next Thursday at the extraordinary plenary session. They know that the People's Party has had the best of talents and the greatest willingness to adopt a text together. We have negotiated most of our amendments, even dropped some for the sake of the agreement. I ask the Socialist Group, from a state party, to make an effort, as the People's Party did twenty-five years ago, to introduce into the law the amendments that we have kept alive because they are certainly necessary and you and the Socialist Group know that you are improving the text, to give us a law that lasts another twenty-five years, like the previous one, of the People's Party. In that regard, it appealed to its sense of State to support those amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gazquez. Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor on behalf of the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u34	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, allow me to address my first words to the Communist spokesman - whom I see he has already left - who with whom he is falling has given him for accusing us of sexists and has spoken of his grandmother, but he has forgotten the grandmothers who are suffering because they have seen his daughters being raped by criminals who are seeing their sentences reduced by the law of 'it is only yes'. [[Applauds]] The spokesman has been forgotten the three reports of the General Council of the Judiciary that warned that this was going to happen and, of course, the Iranian women, who must also be second-class women, have been forgotten. Minister, I'm with you. The Government has flown the bells, as you have explained to us very well, by firing the expenditure into a situation of economic crisis. Looks like there's no tomorrow, using a Keynesian aggravation. In the long run, everyone dies, and these problems are solved by others. Let's see what your government wants, because when the numbers are shuddered, things get very well understood. If we take programme 142.A, action by the Spanish State abroad, we see that its main objective is to defend and promote the political and economic interests of Spain vis-à-vis third States and the international bodies to which it is a party; to enhance its influence on the definition of the international strategy of peace and security; to improve its external image, as well as to guarantee to the Spanish citizens the protection they may need outside our borders and to facilitate the exercise of their rights. That has only decided to increase by 1.9%. That is what Spain's political and economic interests matter to you. That's the reality, not the one you told us. If you want another example, we look at the Secretariat of State for Ibero-America and the Caribbean and Spanish in the World, which has a endowment of 86 million. It seemed a small figure to me, but 80 of those millions are taken by the Cervantes Institute. Moreover, if we remove the 1.3% taken by the House of America, 2.6% of the staff and 0.6% for Mr Sánchez' presidency, we see that the Secretariat of State for Ibero-America and the Caribbean and Spanish in the World can do little or nothing with these scarce resources. However, transfers and deliveries have grown by 41.5%; the AECID, as you have very well explained, has grown by 53%, increasing its contribution by more than 196 million euros. This is the case with official development assistance, and the Government understands that it is necessary to help outside, it is necessary to help outside rather than within our borders. When the Spanish families cannot reach the end of the month, when the companies are suffering enormously from the crazy costs of their supplies, we trigger international cooperation in development aid, which is 23% in the general budgets of the State; to strategic contributions to bilateral development organizations, more than 50 million; the Development Promotion Fund is increased by more than 20 million, up to 219 million euros. I recall that the Secretariat of State for Ibero-America, the Caribbean and Spanish in the World was 86 million, while the Development Promotion Fund was 219 million. There are more than 100 million in current transfers that have seen an increase of 35 million to non-profit institutions and about 145 million go abroad. It's amazing, isn't it? What are you guys doing? One might think that Mr. Sánchez's trip to Ibero-America was an election trip, that what he was doing was promoting himself to become Secretary General of the Socialist International, and some might say that the trip is getting very expensive. Can you tell me, on your trip to the Balkans and on Mr Sánchez's trips to Ibero-America, what commercial successes we have achieved for Spanish companies and for the general interest of the State? Because what we do know is the results in their elections to the Socialist International. It should be noted that in the general budgets of the State for the year 2023 fifteen studies and reports on the objectives of the 2030 Agenda are growing, which is to increase by ten the five that were collected in the budgets of the year 2022. I would like to point out that, as time goes by, AIReF has reduced its education budget by 50%. That is to say, we are going to spend more money on the studies for the 2030 Agenda on the foreign budget than the budget that the AIReF has in the tragic situation in which we are. The things that the AIReF says about their budgets don't seem to like them, and they punish them. To the Spanish Presidency of the European Union, EUR 160 million. I think this is an absolutely important date and we have to do it very well, but do we have to spend EUR 160 million in six months? 160 million euros? In short, the growth of 28 % of development aid throughout the General Administration of the State is getting very expensive; it is very expensive to find all of you, the whole government, for when you lose the next elections. You are indebted to your communist partners and to the enemies in Spain. Is it normal for Minister Irene Montero on her recent trip to Argentina to hide from the diplomatic corps the meetings with the Vice President of the Government of Argentina, with the Minister of Economy, with the Minister of the Interior? Is it normal that the new ambassador of Spain you have authorized, Yuri Klimenko, exconsul in Barcelona, who supported traitors and secessionists, and that everyone knows the Russian interference in the failed coup of Esquerra and its partners, be ambassador in Spain? Is it normal that in the meeting we had last week with the Ukrainian delegation here, in the Congress of Deputies, there were none of the coup parties, either on the left or the PNV? [[Applauds]] Is it normal that they didn't come? Is that the support of your government partners - because neither were the Lords of Podemos-a the Ukrainian Members who came to see us? What are the commercial revenues of your travels? Five start-up agencies? In short, Your Honor, I believe - let us hope you will leave soon - that these are the government's placement budgets...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u35	Mr. González, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u36	I'm done. ...and, without a doubt, are the budgets of ruin. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u37	Thank you, Mr. González. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gonzalez Prieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u38	Good morning, Minister, President. Gentlemen of the PP, how difficult they make us seriously discuss with you. To be serious and take them seriously, the first thing they have to do is stop throwing bubbles at international politics. You have turned a debate on state policy into a continuous cartoon of Mortadelo and Philemon. It's like when Mr. Hispan... yeah, don't make any gestures, Mr. Hispan. Don't you remember that you said in New York, at a meeting of the Spanish delegation with the Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations, that you were an agent of the Kremlin and a envoy of Putin? Doesn't Mrs Martínez Ferro remember that when Spain donated EUR 130 million for the global fund against AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis you saw a cooperation with Bill Gates to finance Microsoft, I don't know for what purpose? Or do you not remember Mrs Martínez Ferro who sent a tweet a few days earlier, confusing desire with reality, saying that the supply of gas with Algeria was in danger twelve hours before we signed the supply contract? Because yes, gentlemen of the People's Party, you have turned Spanish politics and the debate on Spanish politics into a continuous bubble, into a continuous vignette of Mr Ibáñez. They have already confused Genoa, 13 with 13, Rue del Percebe and are now turning the debate on foreign policy into a continuous vignette of Zipi and Zape or Mortadelo and Filemón. [[applause]] That is why I am concerned that in the face of such serious debates, in this difficult and unstable time, you do not come out of the demagogy, for example, when you speak of Venezuela. [[The Lord]] Mrs. Martínez Ferro, just one thing. Do you know how many Venezuelans sought refuge for humanitarian aid in Mariano Rajoy's seven years of government? 32,000. Do you know how many people were granted? The 21st. Do you know how many Venezuelans and Venezuelans we have helped since the government of Spain ruled Pedro Sánchez? Ninety thousand. So stop talking about Venezuela and try to get the flag of Venezuela, because once again I sell advice that I don't have. [[Applauds]] It is also true that they do exactly the same every time they talk about Ukraine, and it hurts me especially because you now want to appropriate the Ukrainian cause, now that you realize that Spanish public opinion is strongly linked to the fight for European values that are also defended on the battlefield of Ukraine. But we must remember that from the beginning, before the war, this government did the first thing it did was to try to avoid it, and since it started the illegal war Putin what we have been doing has been to send defensive material, humanitarian aid and always defend its European aspirations. Do you remember - I am sure the Minister does - how you entered the debate of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in January? You saw in Ukraine not a battle for European values, but a battlefield to wear down the government by taking advantage of the war in Ukraine. [[Mrs Martínez Ferro utters words that are not perceived]] Yes, in January, Mrs. Martinez Ferro. There are the hemerotheques, and repentant God wants them. Now, if you really want to support the Ukrainian people in the war on Ukraine, in defending European values, which are also being fought in the Ukrainian camps, do you know the first thing you have to do? The first thing you have to do is end and break with the friends of Putin's friends where you are with them ruling, in Castile and León, or where you want to rule, in the Moncloa. [[Applauds]] They break up with the friends of Putin's friends, with Le Pen's friends, with Berlusconi's friends; break up with them in Castile and León and give up bleaching in the rest of Spain. Minister, they make a lot of noise with foreign policy, but these budgets are very good budgets for Spanish foreign action, for three reasons. First of all, because they design from the prestige and potential of our foreign policy a different and just way out of the economic and social consequences of Putin's illegal war in Ukraine. The Spanish Government has already done so in the previous crisis, as a result of the COVID pandemic, and is doing so again: negotiating in Europe, in the face of adversity, a different framework, a comprehensive budgetary framework to help the sectors concerned, to stimulate the economy, to protect jobs and the welfare state. The most striking thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that those who were in the previous economic crisis before black men; those who, instead of aid, offered us cuts; those who, instead of incentives, offered us austerity; those who, instead of employment, brought us more unemployment, wage devaluations, massive VAT increases and tax amnesty for their own, now not only do they not help, but they want to teach us lessons, Minister, when they went halfway across Europe, first trying to prevent the funds from coming; then they did not reimburse us and now, moreover, trying to make no one believe us in their execution. And you know what that is, Minister? Hypocrisy and patriotism of tin. [[Applauds]] It is a patriotism of mouth - yes, gentlemen of the PP - that allows me to go to the second reason why we do very proudly support these budgets: because they are good budgets to consolidate the prestige and credibility of Spain abroad. Gentlemen of the PP, you said last year that the previous budgets were going to lead to an international isolation of our country. I do not know whether they continue to think the same after a successful NATO summit that has put us at the heart of the world's foreign policy; after continually leading the European Councils, for example, which obtained the Next Generation funds or those which have achieved the Iberian exception, which will be the general rule in Europe; after unlocking with France, Germany and Portugal the new Community pipelines to isolate even more and depend less on Russia; or, for example, after a G20 summit where this government has been at the heart of negotiations with world leaders. Or do you prefer that Spain that stood on the table at the Texas ranch to convoke and organize illegal wars? Or seeing Rajoy in the corners of thinking about the European councils because he couldn't find anyone to speak to him as a Christian? Do you prefer that foreign policy, which produced us more isolation and less prestige, than that which places Spain at the heart of the most important decisions at this time of great instability and of great global importance? Thirdly, we will support these budgets because they re-place cooperation at the heart of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u39	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u40	Mr. President, I'm done, ten seconds. They have just said that these cooperation budgets are rickets. For you cut development aid by 94% while you were ruling! [[Protests]] These budgets double their last development investment budget and increase development aid policy and cooperation year after year.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u41	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u42	You know why? Because we do have soul and heart with those who suffer the most, in Spain and in our foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u43	Thank you. The next item is the debate on section 13, Ministry of Justice. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u44	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting to you today on the actions that the Government has budgeted in section 13 of the Draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2023. You know, ladies and gentlemen, of the commitment of this Government, and within it of the Ministry of Justice, to the modernization and transformation of our Spanish justice, to build a strong public service, guaranteeing rights and promoting equal opportunities. We are talking about a service of proximity to citizenship and that generates synergies in terms of social and territorial cohesion. Justice must make its contribution and be an agent of these aspects, and we must encourage citizens also to perceive justice, to perceive its presence, to perceive the presence of the public authorities, supporting and improving their daily lives. The proposed budgets for the year 2023 is in this same sense a real step forward if we also consider the perfect link between the own funds and the funds derived from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Budgeted resources for public justice policy amount to EUR 2291 million in the draft budget. I am advancing an easy criticism, which is also an unfair criticism. Of course, this year the amount earmarked for European funds has fallen, because at this point, when we are still in 2022, we have fulfilled practically all the transfers to the autonomous communities for the year 2022, but also for the year 2023. We've moved on. The co-governance mechanisms operate, and in the case of the Ministry of Justice with the absolute support of the autonomous communities with transferred competences - twelve of the seventeen, as you know - where the planning for the years 2022 and 2023 was agreed at the meeting of the Sectoral Conference of Administration of Justice on 25 March last and credits amounting to EUR 179.2 million were transferred. Of these, appropriations amounting to EUR 161.3 million were transferred in June this year, which is 90% of the agreed amount, and that is why only the outstanding amount for the year 2023 remains to be transferred, the remaining 10% amounting to approximately EUR 17.9 million. This is why only 57.5 million are collected as an annuality planned for 2023 under European funds. If we eliminate, therefore, the effect of European funds, in case anyone were tempted in this debate, public justice policy receives a grant in the 2023 project of 2233.82 million euros, that is, 160 million more than for this year we are in. We are therefore facing a budget increase of 7.7%. Of this overall amount of public justice policy, the funds allocated to the Ministry of Justice, including the Centre for Legal Studies, amount to EUR 2155.48 million, an increase of EUR 158 million, 7.9%. It is essential to mention the funds allocated to the General Council of the Judiciary within the overall justice policy, which reach 78.33 million euros, which also implies an increase of almost 3%. The transformation that we are going to achieve with these funds is going to be a turning point in the consideration of justice by citizens and we are going to act on two fundamental axes: universal accessibility and efficiency. Firstly, in terms of accessibility, accessibility is free justice; it means improving offices for victim assistance and care. They are also the judicial offices in the municipalities and the commitment to patent and present justice throughout the territory, regardless of the size of the localities, regardless of the size of their population, as a service more for the citizenry and with special attention to the areas with less population density. As I said, it is a commitment to territorial cohesion through social cohesion and digital cohesion. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what it will mean in terms of accompanying citizens to have municipal judicial offices for the elderly, for persons with disabilities, for economically vulnerable persons, for persons who by any other kind of personal or social circumstance do not have those technological means available, to avoid digital gaps, territorial gaps, generational gaps, gaps of any kind. In addition, they will also bring about improvements in the lives of people and the functioning of the courts in the territories managed by the autonomous governments, which, as I have already said, are those twelve autonomous communities. We are also focused on those who work in the Public Justice Service to make their conditions more favourable: investment in digitisation, which will save procedures that are now almost handcrafted, and also the possibility of teleworking when possible. And there is a clear bet in these budgets also for young people, for their vocation to impart justice, a bet for their talent, that they see no barriers or obstacles to fulfill this desire for socio-economic causes or other personal circumstances or for the place in which they live. Consequently, for the second year in a row, this Government is committed to improving access to judicial and prosecutorial careers, to the legal profession of the Administration of Justice and to the State Advocate with a strengthened scholarship system and also to online training. The Center for Legal Studies is also committed to training with the dimension of digital transformation in which we are immersed not only in Spain, but throughout the world. Moreover, it must be stressed that legal professions cannot be alien to this process of transformation; they must be a driving force and seek legal and strategic solutions to deal with it. Secondly, resource management will also be based on improved efficiency. The evolution of the more than 3600 Courts of First Instance and Instruction that we have in our territory towards the 431 Courts of Justice, sharing the resources of the Justice Offices. Attention, because no judicial party, no head of judicial party in Spain will be left without its Court of Justice. Where there are now courts in all party heads, in all judicial parties, there will also be a Court of Justice. We will promote the culture of the agreement through the training and the laws that are in place in parliamentary office, which they know as well as I do, and we will promote the holding of telematic judgments and remote statements or the possibility of carrying out all kinds of usual procedures for citizens from the offices of Justice in the municipality or even from their own smartphones, from their electronic elements, putting justice by hand, literally, of citizens. For these two axes, the different budget chapters are broken down. Chapter 1, staff costs, exceeding EUR 1785 million, for staff receiving their salaries from the budget of the Ministry of Justice. This chapter accounts for 77,5 % of the ministry's budget and it is clear that it has grown by EUR 139 million, i.e. 8,4 %. This includes the introduction of the new model of judicial office; the creation of fifty-four mediation units, which represent a firm step in the commitment to that culture of the agreement; the creation of twenty-seven administrative units to assist victims; the creation of seventy judicial units; the expansion of the Office of the Prosecutor in seventy places; the creation of places for the new central register of royal titles; the upgrading to the category of magistrate in five judicial parties; new incorporations in the field of central services and the State Advocate and with more than 77 million euros the overall salary increase for public employees. And I would also like to refer to the lawyers and lawyers of the Justice Administration, fundamental agents in the proceedings, fundamental agents in our judicial system, whose salaries have received substantial improvements from the ministry in this year 2022 with the new royal decree of salaries that was promulgated in April, retroactively, and also in the field of interventions in entries and records, as well as the replacements made by these professionals. In this way, we note the considerable increase that has been made in this legislature in the creation of judicial units and bodies, which have already begun by my predecessors, Minister Delgado and Minister Campo. In 2019, seventy-five new judicial units; in 2020, thirty-three and three places of magistrates and in 2021, fifty-six and four places of territorial secondment judge. In 2022, the establishment of the seventy judicial units was under way and budget allocations for the establishment of another seventy judicial units were foreseen for the year 2023. And I cannot leave without mentioning the push that has also been given to the expansion of the organizational staff of the Prosecutor's Office. In 2019, eighty places were created; in 2021, in the general budgets, forty places were supposed to be created, and in May 2022, sixty places were created instead of the forty initially budgeted, and in these budgets for the financial year 2023 we provide for the creation of seventy other places. On the other hand, since 2019 a considerable effort has also been made to call for places for judicial and prosecutorial careers: 1040 places convened since 2019 and another 200 that are planned for 2023. Chapter 2, current expenditure on goods and services, remains virtually constant, reaching EUR 146.50 million, while Chapter 3, financial expenditure, is increased by EUR 0.33 million, reaching EUR 0.66 million. In Chapter 4, current transfers, if we discount the effect of European funds, the item increases by 3.5 million euros - 5.2% increase -, destined basically for the transfer that is made for the financing of the Center of Legal Studies. Chapter 6, real investment, increases by EUR 38.58 million over the budget of 2022, i.e. an increase of 16%, to EUR 279,8 million. Of these, more than 53 million are earmarked for infrastructure,equipment and buildings, almost 139 for technological modernisation and 87.64 for digital justice transformation and the energy transition from headquarters. By 2023 the construction projects of the new buildings of the courts of Talavera de la Reina, Tomelloso, Illescas, Cartagena, Molina de Segura, Cáceres, Navalmoral de la Mata, Valladolid, Ibiza and Ciudadela are planned. In addition, the works of the Supreme Court and the legal library of the Ministry of Justice, the new buildings of the courts of Torrijos, Lorca and Manacor, the new offices of the Institute of Legal Medicine of Toledo and the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences in Two Sisters, the rehabilitation of the Provincial Court of Salamanca and the court building of Ocaña will take place. And the works already begun, such as those of the new court building in Badajoz, will continue. Finally, it is planned to complete the rehabilitation of the Manzanares and Puertollano courthouses building and the rehabilitation of the Toledo Palace of Justice. Chapter 7, capital transfers, decreases EUR 108.67 million. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, this decrease is precisely due to the good planning for the years 2022 and 2023, carried out in co-government with the autonomous communities, from the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, so that 90% of what was agreed on in appropriations in 2022 has already been transferred and only 10% of what was planned, as I said before. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Chapter 8, financial assets, maintains the same allocations as in 2022, about EUR 620,000. In relation to the public bodies attached to the Ministry, the General Judicial Mutuality and the Centre for Legal Studies, the expenditure budget for the latter reaches 19,62 million euros, an increase of 3,4 million euros, that is, more than 20% regarding the budget approved for the year 2022. I would like to highlight here the credit for scholarships in the preparation of oppositions to judicial and prosecutorial careers, to the superior body of lawyers and lawyers of the Administration of Justice and to the State Advocate. This credit is doubled to EUR 3,24 million in order to promote equality in access to these excellence careers. The 2022 scholarship programme allowed for a total of 245 scholarships, amounting to EUR 1 600 000, and by 2023 we intend to double the amount allocated to these scholarships, which means strongly supporting this commitment for equal opportunities and also for the young vocation in legal careers. With regard to the General Judicial Mutuality, its budget for 2023 amounts to EUR 128.17 million, an increase of 2.5% over the previous year and with particular attention to both the economic benefits and the health care of administrative mutualism. I would also like to refer to the budget of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, which must face the increase in its functions. Its Chapter 1 is increased by EUR 1.72 million, 17.38 %, up to EUR 11.60 million of the Agency's allocation, an important step towards carrying out its very important functions in an appropriate and efficient manner. By increasing Chapter 2 by 2.02%, up to €5.47 million, it will face up to its functions in relation to e-government and also to the Agency's own administrative management systems. And in Chapter 6, the 7.54% increase, up to EUR 998 350, will improve electronic headquarters and automation in the claims management process, In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, governance, social cohesion, territorial cohesion, digital cohesion, accessibility, equal opportunities and efficiency. These are the key words in section 13 of the Ministry of Justice in the Draft General State Budgets for the year 2023. And I want to tell you, although we will have the right time, that the budget implementation for 2021 was excellent, but that 2022 is going to go further along that path and with this project for 2023, along with the normative projects that you are currently working on, the efficiency laws, I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that together we will get our justice to have a huge breakthrough in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u45	Thank you so much. In defence of amendments, Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning. Madam Minister, you have increased the justice budget by 7.83 %, which I tell you in advance is clearly insufficient. In the Committee on Budgets there was a discrepancy which I still wonder how it might not be clarified, and that is that we, with a source in the intervention, told him that with regard to the implementation of the budget for the previous year, only 75% had been executed, while the posts of his ministry were committed to saying that the budget for the previous year had been implemented by 95%. You take heart for investments in justice, but justice remains the poorest public service of all budgets because it doesn't give a vote, nobody votes thinking about the public service of justice. So it has happened with you and with you in the forty years in which you have been ruling in turn, and certainly in your speech it makes it clear. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] In my group we agree on the appropriate methods of settling disputes that may decongest justice. You have heard me say this to myself from here, in this rostrum of speakers, but do not breastfeed for fifty-four mediation units, because all those who spoke in the Committee on Budgets and in the Committee on Justice said - or insinuated - that they were clearly insufficient. There are very few mediation units if we really want to put in place a system of adequate means of conflict resolution. But above all, and as always, we find the news, which is already classic or repeated in this long plenary of budgets, of the government's vetoes, the authoritarian and anti-democratic conduct of this government. Of course in our sector - as I said yesterday - and in general for all social aid, the most progressive government in history is racano with social aid thanks to not rising adequately the IPREM, the multi-income index, an index that has been frozen from 2011 to 2016, which does not rise from 2018 to 2020, which this year rises by 3.65% and put an amount of 600 euros, but on which we asked it to rise by 2% more, precisely in order to absorb this freezing for so many years and to adjust to a real index. You raise the interprofessional minimum wage, which employers pay - how nice it is to play with the money of others -; however, you do not raise the IPREM so that the State will grant more aid to vulnerable groups, among which are precisely the applicants for free justice, because only those who live alone and who do not earn more than 1200 euros a month will be able to benefit from this increase. In the area of free justice, we continue to do the same: you have vetoed us a study of equalization of the payment of lawyers who are dedicated to free justice and who are among the worst paid in Europe, and you get your chest out in your speech of co-governance. The co-governance, minister, is that a lawyer in the Basque Country earns much more by doing the same work as a lawyer in ministry territory. This is co-governance, inequality, in short. They must be remunerated on their own initiative, but you do not even want to talk about this because your Government does not veto it. How curious that the best paid lawyers of the shift are those of the Basque Country after having reached an agreement with the PNV regarding the Basque 'cup'! It is paying the lawyers of the office shift an average of 178 euros per process, when the European average is 462; thus, in Portugal it is paid 969 euros; in Italy, 1141 euros; in France, 524 euros. You will remember how the most veterans of this from free justice called it the benefit of poverty, and today we will call it the benefit of poverty of lawyers engaged in the office shift. It also prevents us from increasing the supply of public employment. We intended that places of judges and prosecutors would increase from 200 to 300, and the positions of his ministry that appear in the Commission tell us that this is the fault that there are 300 places without summoning through the restricted competition of merits of jurists of recognized competence for several years. We find that we still do not meet the average rates of judges per inhabitant, with 17 judges per inhabitant in Europe compared to 11 judges per inhabitant in Spain. We find ourselves here with a bottleneck in which in the end what happens is that the congestion rate is rising, that is, the matters resolved in relation to the matters that come in. You also get chest on the subject of investments, that is, you have nineteen works in progress in the ministry territory and there are works, such as the City of Justice of Valladolid, to which only an amount of 200,000 euros is allocated. You take out your chest because the salaries have been raised to the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, but it does not say that today they are on strike. Today the lawyers of the Administration of Justice are on strike through an association called the Progressive Union of Judicial Secretaries; waya!, the Progressive Union of Judicial Secretaries on strike against the most progressive party that has had Spanish democracy. Of course, because you do not comply with the agreements reached with the lawyers of the administration of justice and above that, we are denied the amendment that we have proposed precisely for this salary equalization, just as we have also been denied the amendment concerning the salary equalization of the lawyers of the Supreme Court with the lawyers of the Constitutional Court. It's over now. The summit is that they have vetoed More Country - which is not here to defend it, but I will do so - an amendment to the constitution of a national anti-corruption authority, which already seems to me to be the summit. Madam Minister, it seems to me that you have come to the oropel the one that makes you minister of justice, but that you will pass into history as another minister, another minister who has done nothing for the justice of this country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u47	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. I will begin my speech, Minister, by congratulating myself on the trepidating pace of your intervention and on the passion with which you speak about the issues affecting your ministry. [[Applauds]] It's really been - let me be irony-trepid. Madam Minister, since you do not do much in this House, I will take advantage of the fact that I am in this rostrum to tell you - see - that you have had to talk about the laws of digital procedural efficiency and the law of the right to defence when there is not even a single budget allocation in the budgets, for example, to undertake the reforms that are going to need the implementation of the courts of instance, and when you presented the reform of the units of the Judicial Office without having negotiated with the unions the employment relations, which is not unique not only to a government that calls itself progressive, but not to any government that intends to carry out a rule. Seeing everything that's going on, I wonder how much moral and intellectual degradation you're willing to get to keep Sanchez a little bit more screwed up in the Moncloa chair and climbing with great excitement and joy, day and day too, to the Falcon and the Super Puma, as if it were a rock and roll star. Allow me to respond by focusing much more on your silences, Mrs Llop, because they say a lot more than your words, because you are neither here nor expected, and I don't know if you missed that day on the Madrid Metro. You have been or are being a minister with a sad transit through the ministry; you, who have become a Yolanda Díaz with your silence, you, whom Podemos accused yesterday of being responsible for determining the penalties of that indecent 'law of yes', a law of which you are, along with Montero, Sánchez and all those who that day pressed the green button, directly responsible for a hedge that is serving for monsters - because they are monsters, sexual aggressors and pederastas-get out of jail or can see their penalties reduced, and you have said nothing. [[Applauds]] You, Mrs Llop, whose atronador silence - in the Diaz style, I repeat - have resounded these days in which you have not defended the judges, as was your obligation, from the furious attacks of a minister who was far beyond the edge of a nervous attack and a party, We can, that besides blaming you, distills an unbearable prepotence, incapable as they are of recognizing their errors to which they lead their sectarianism and their cheap populism. You, Mrs Llop, whose silence has served to leave the lawyers at the stand, while Victoria Rosell and Podemos charged against the Spanish lawyer, against the fundamental right to effective judicial protection and against the free press, which, as in the dictatorships, Mrs Rosell proposes to gag, Minister of Justice, and you, quiet. [[Applauds]] You, Mrs Llop, who is a judge, how are you able to remain silent as long as the judicial associations raise their voice unanimously, including Judges for Democracy, and when 52% of the career, as you well know, are women? You have remained silent while denigrating your companions and your companions. I don't think I like to have to tell you, but it's my duty. You, Mrs Llop, whose silence has resounded as a tyrant these days, as you legislate to the letter amending the Penal Code to eliminate the crime of sedition on the demand of independence and ending with basic principles such as that of all Spaniards being equal before the law, and all with one goal: that Mr Junqueras can stand as a candidate of Esquerra to the elections of the Generalitat of Catalonia in 2025. You, Mrs Llop, remain silent as your barrunta ministry, to Sánchez's dictation, an entrepreneurial pardon to the most honorable of all the corrupt, Mr Griñán, responsible for the plundering of nothing more and nothing less than 670 million euros, which - look, that is! - did not go to your pockets, but to your friends' pockets. And that is the crime that in order to foster such attitudes they intend or possibly will now be forced to reform. You, Mrs Llop, have allowed the grouping of gender-based violence courts in three autonomous communities, including mine, the Valencian Community, where eight courts are suppressed, of course consulting with the Government of Ximo Puig, and all this, yes, because it means abandoning the victims and in the same week of the 25-N, where all the Spaniards raised the voice to express our solidarity with the victims and to reject this scourge of gender-based violence, and you, in the same week, closing the courts. You, Mrs Llop, have remained absolutely silent today when you have, as Mr Bal said, all the unions on the street demanding wage improvements, all of them, and when I say everyone I include UGT and the Workers' Commissions, all of them, and you, Mrs Llop, have abandoned them because you have abandoned the Public Justice Service. You, Mrs Llop, remain silent, hidden, while the lawyers of the Administration of Justice go out on the street also to manifest themselves in just demand of some improvements that you promised and that you did not fulfill. Because it is a sad custom for you, gentlemen of the PSOE - I imagine following the example of your president, Mr Sánchez - to lie and not comply, something that is too common in the socialist ranks. You, Mrs Llop, have remained silent while you humiliated the Spanish nation when Sánchez was changing prisoners for budgets, historical memory for budgets, pardons for budgets, sedition for budgets and, probably, embezzlement for budgets. You have remained silent or, rather, changed, as the affectionate character of the Marx brothers - that is, without a horn to be understood - as the anger and discontent of all legal operators grows. You have betrayed judges, prosecutors, lawyers, officials, schools and all Spanish lawyers. He has not failed to disappoint even one of these groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Socialists, you boast of 140 years of history, years in which there has been of everything: glory, as when you were the political instrument through which social democracy was consolidated in Spain, but also years where there was little glory, and I prefer not to mention it. But I will say that this year you have made a customised suit in the form of amnesty for those who want, want and will continue to want to break the unity of the nation. I wonder why you humiliate the Spanish nation by accepting the theses of independence, why you dare to correct the Supreme Court by giving reason to those who accuse the Supreme of being part of the repressive apparatus, as Pere Aragonès claims. Are you, Minister, part of the repressive apparatus of the State?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u49	Your Honor, you must finish. When you can, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u50	Today you represent the worst of your own history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u51	Thank you. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u52	Thank you, President. Firstly, from our confederal group we want to thank the various officials of the Ministry of Justice for the details they have given us in the various committees on the budget headings and also today for the position of the Minister. Secondly, and on the subject, having justice with the necessary resources is essential for citizens to be able to exercise their right and, ultimately, to consolidate our democracy. It must be said that we are at an important moment in the process of dealing with some laws, such as organizational and procedural efficiency, which are going to be fundamental to improving the functioning of the administration of justice and also to giving citizens a better and faster response. We also hope that the establishment of the Courts of First Instance will increase the number of judges and judges. It is also essential for us to promote mediation and conciliation in order to avoid the collapse of the courts to which we are being subjected. However, we are concerned - we have already said this once - that a specific budget has not been allocated for these star laws that make up the so-called 2030 Justice Plan. With regard to the Procedural Efficiency Act, there is no specific budget for the establishment of Courts of First Instance and no only budget is allocated to the promotion of alternative means of conflict resolution. We are also concerned that efficiency in the functioning of the Administration of Justice ultimately rests solely on citizens, that they need to be moved further so that justice can be provided, that they need to make widespread use of telematic means for the conduct of judicial acts or views on the digital divide, and that they are forced to compromise on the civil and commercial routes in order not to go to trial without the establishment or promotion of such a possibility before the Administration. So we hope from our group that all these issues can be solved so that efficiency laws are truly efficient. As we are talking about justice, I do not want to pass up any opportunity to denounce the very grave situation to which the kidnapping has again led, the blockade of the People's Party to the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they are failing to comply with the Constitution with their refusal to renew the judiciary again. You only follow the rules of democratic law when you benefit them and, if you don't benefit them... [[Mr. De la noVela: No, no]] Yeah, yeah. And if they don't benefit them, they break them, that's what they always do. They are constantly doing the same blackmail: when it is not a veto on Podemos, it is sedition, and tomorrow it will be something else that interests you. It would be good if we brought into this House a law of reform of the General Council of the Judiciary which provides that the members of the judiciary be suspended from pay within three months of the expiry of the organ. You were already going to see how we saved all these blockades that you make and these political and judicial elites that you want to control a country in an undemocratic way from the illegitimate, lapsed and alien judicial power of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] That remnant of those salaries could even be devoted to financing training on equal terms for politicians and policies as well, why not, and for some judges who have been asking women if they resisted during rape. Yesterday you called the Minister of Equality useless, today you have said the same thing again, because you also do not read and have not seen the decree of yesterday of the Prosecutor's Office, where there is a unification of criteria, so today you should give a point in the mouth. But I will tell you something: when the Supreme Court reduced the sentence for sexual abuse to the former councillor of the De Santos People's Party, there was no law of 'only it is'. From the age of fourteen, he was reduced to five. The last sentence of which you have spoken so much is not of the law of 'only yes', because it is earlier, in which the judges say that the minimum possible penalty is applied for that offence on the basis that the penalties are already high. If those judges had considered that there had been violence, intimidation or pre-validation, that man might have been sentenced to punishments ranging from twelve to fifteen, but he did not appreciate it. I want to say that you are constantly making a fool of yourself and you are now disrespecting the Office of the Prosecutor, you who say that respect for judges cannot be disregarded when we do not agree with any of your considerations. It is not useless the Minister of Equality, here the only thing that has not been at all useful for three years has been the People's Party, blocking the General Council of Judicial Power sine die, being at the worst time in our country, with a pandemic, with a volcano, with a war, the worst opposition in the world. [[Mr. Santamaría Ruiz: Man!]] You have rejected any measure of protection for citizens; you have been the leaders of the no; you have gone to Europe over and over again to try to boycott our country, your country and our country over and over again; you have been the negators of the moment so hard we were going through, and what you cannot bear is that you are not ruling to re-implement your austerity policies, which only benefited you yourselves. I will not deny it, you have been leaders in two things: one, the leaders of the no, and the other, in which the leaderships of your presidents of the People's Party last two televisions. [[Applauds]] What kind of stability are you going to give to this country if in three years you have thrown Casado for denouncing possible corruptions of Mrs. Ayuso and, above all, it is Mrs. Ayuso herself who delegitimates Mr. Feijoo's leadership, urging him not to renew the General Council of the Judiciary? I'm on my way. In three years you have no leadership, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have done nothing useful to...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u53	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u54	They lost power and have not recovered. They are therefore not prepared to govern this country. And the fact that once again, for the third consecutive year, you do not side with budgets that extend rights, that are good for this country and that you side with the far right is a symptom that you are not prepared to govern either now or in many years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u55	Your Honor, thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Justice Minister, in order to understand what is happening in justice in Spain and to understand whether these budgets are part of the solution or increase the problem, it would be important for us to have four clear figures for all Spaniards, and I will refer to them on the basis of the last report published by the General Council of the Judiciary, which deals with the year 2021: 3 144,000 outstanding cases; 2,494,000 outstanding executions, therefore, resolutions that have already been firm that can be put into practice, this adds up to approximately 5,600,000 outstanding cases to be resolved by all the jurisdictions and judicial bodies in Spain. Our judicial bodies, our judges, our judges, our lawyers in the administration of justice, our judicial agents, our prosecutors have made an impressive effort, and we must thank them, because they have resolved more than 6,300,000 cases. This represents an increase in resolutions by no less than 21% over the previous year, from 2020 to 2021. But it happens, Minister, that the litigation in Spain has increased and 6 273 000 new cases have entered. That is to say, that this fabulous work effort of our judicial bodies of more than 21% over the previous year has failed and will not succeed in avoiding that gigantic delay ball that the Justice Administration has. We have the chill of an average of 1,000 cases a year per judge, which means that every judge has to solve an average of three cases a day, and we talk about 365 days, and that's assuming they didn't have a single weekend of rest or a vacation. Let us imagine for a moment a magistrate having to settle three divorce cases, three creditor competitions or three criminal cases involving serious crimes on the same day. That is the unacceptable workload to which we are subjecting our judicial bodies. And we should ask ourselves: can we continue to demand even more work from our judicial bodies? Do we have the right to demand that they solve the problem? So, where's the problem? Well, look, one way to find out is to look around and look at what other countries in our environment are doing. Here is the last report of the Council of Europe of October 2022 last month, which tells us: judges and magistrates in Spain, 11 judges and magistrates per 100,000 inhabitants, when the average of the European Union is 17, almost 80% more; prosecutors in Spain, 5 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants; average of the European Union, 11 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants. Let's talk about money: how many euros are spent in Spain for every inhabitant and year? 87 euros. Here one will be waiting for me now to give a much higher average of the European Union. So here is the problem, which turns out that in the European Union the average of euros spent per inhabitant per year is much lower: 64 euros. That is to say, we have budgets of more than EUR 2197 million and those budgets - which, in addition to being ruinous, are the budgets of inefficiency - do not solve the problem, and above all our judicial bodies have to see judgments such as that of the Constitutional Court on 10 October 2022, pointing out undue delays to a judicial body in Seville because it does not resolve sufficiently in time. The key where is it, Minister? You know it well: the General Council of the Judiciary - this General Council of the Judiciary that you all always want to control, among other things, to gag and shut up -, in your report, requested at least the creation of 176 new judicial units, and you announced to us last year and this one, to drum and platter, that you are going to create 70, that you do not even cover the loss that there is for retirements and for casualties and, therefore, there is still more and more deficit of judicial organs. [[applause]] [[The Minister of Justice, Llop Cuenca, makes negative signs]] You say not with your head, but I remind you that you asked for 176 and you have granted them 70; of 176, 70, then there are 106 missing. Conclusions: These budgets are nothing more than the justice that the People's Party did when it ruled; in this it does work perfectly. Conclusions: First conclusion - all of you and the Spanish have already seen it in the data I have given - it turns out that we spend more than the average of the European Union and we have fewer judicial bodies to resolve. Secondly, if we have fewer judicial bodies to resolve, we have less capacity to reduce that terrible delay in the resolution and, therefore, increase the effective judicial guardianship deficit of the Spaniards. Thirdly, what happens is that it is very poorly spent, because the budgets of justice go through the sinking of twelve autonomous communities, with twelve competences of justice, plus the five autonomous communities that depend on the Ministry of Justice, plus the courses of indoctrination in gender ideology, plus the judicial bureaucracy that you have created. [[applause]] That is the reality of your budgets, Minister, which are going that way. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Question: Who are the great losers in these justice budgets? The usual, the justiciable, the Spanish on foot, the one who pays the taxes, the one who has to endure a slow, late justice, a hasty justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u57	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u58	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. And who are the great beneficiaries? And this is going to sound very close: those to whom justice never comes, those to whom crime prescribes, those to whom capital can escape...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u59	Your Honor, your time is over a lot. Stop it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u60	I'm done, Mr. President. That is to say, political parties with their corruptiles, criminals, coups, etarras, rapists, those are the ones who benefit from ineffective justice. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u61	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Tizón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Llop, I would like to begin by replying to Mr Santamaría. Look, if we have a hundred and forty years of history, it's precisely because of our work and not having been founded by a Francoist minister. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] We can talk about a parallel reality and deny the obvious or focus on the obvious to talk about reality, and, unlike you, I will focus on the second and in a more calm way. The reality is that the Ministry of Justice works and fulfils objectives set out in the 2030 Agenda. I would like to put the figures in context with a comparative view. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in 2008 approved a justice expenditure of EUR 1754 million, which meant less budget than the billions of euros that the Socialist Government approved in 2010, eight years earlier, ladies and gentlemen. This, I think, seemed better to Mr Bal, and this is what the People's Party was concerned about. Or is it that you're more concerned about justice when you don't rule? Or are you more concerned about the protection of women when she doesn't rule? But I have more bad news, and it is that by 2023 the forecasts of spending for this ministry continue to improve those of last year, giving cover to a strategic project of modernization, with a road map that translates into the transformation of justice, with a leadership that is exercised to turn this public service into a close and modern service, with a basis on which to build the future of justice of this country. They can make the criticisms that they consider appropriate, they can come to sell their story, but they cannot hide the data that demonstrates tireless legislative work that has promoted almost twenty laws and that translates into facts such as the reform of the Civil Registry Act, the transformation of the Competition Law or the transposition of different European directives; a geometry that will culminate in the triangle formed by the three major efficiency laws, laws that will modernize and support the new model of judicial office. We are talking about new courts with the creation of seventy judicial units, but we are also talking about substantial improvements under the conditions that, as Minister Llop pointed out, have been given in the salaries of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice by the ministry. This ministry is concerned with an effective public service, with numerical stabilization in the different bodies, less interinity, less waiting time, more protection for citizens and more scholarships; ladies and gentlemen, this is the first government that enhances equal opportunities in access to the different bodies of the Administration of Justice. [[Applauds]] But what will I tell you, if some are more of frozen opposition and aid, yes, but for those who don't need it. Governance in Spanish justice is played in a field where agreements and consensus are essential for the proper functioning of judicial bodies, without conditions, without excuses. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, how do you think you can give us lessons in justice with the outcry that you are causing with the General Council of the Judiciary? How do you have the defachability of giving us lessons, those who made great moves to control the Second Room of the Supreme through the back door? Justice, ladies and gentlemen, seems more justice if it is not blocked and manipulated, and they can start by respecting the Constitution and the judges. [[Applauds]] It is in our hands to change things, to correct with the diagnosis of the problems that have been latent years, and one of the keys is co-governance, working hand in hand with the different autonomous communities for proper planning and management. With this, the office of justice will be established in the municipality, an open door to justice in every corner, with the prospect of facing the demographic challenge, something very important for those who come from provinces at risk of depopulation, as in my case is Ourense. Digital and technological transformation will also be a key and priority, because justice, ladies and gentlemen, must adapt to the times. Let us also begin to understand sustainability not only from an environmental point of view, but also as a fundamental element for social and territorial cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, the justice of this country must continue to progress progressively. It should be a public service, accessible, efficient, agile and sustainable; a justice administration that places people at the centre, especially the most vulnerable; and that strengthens attention to victims of violent crimes, especially women who suffer gender-based violence. There's no noise here, there's no smoke curtains here; here you have to work. It is very easy to criticize, ladies and gentlemen of Spain who is early, but it is that you do not get early and work little. [[Applauds]] We are too accustomed to disqualification, not to hold hands, not to answer; in short, we are too accustomed to anti-politics, and it comforts and encourages us to see how there are those who continue to give prestige to this public service and show absolute respect for the services acquired, and this is the Ministry of Justice with Minister Llopa head. As much as you do otherwise, you know that this is a dialogue ministry, a ministry that meets, that meets the commitments made, that meets the pre-established road map, that meets these general budgets by 2023. In the Socialist Party we are ready to work to provide citizens with a justice fully established in the twenty-first century. That is why we present the most social budgets of history; budgets that optimize resources to democratize citizens' access to justice; budgets without obstacles, without fees and without cuts; budgets for a justice commensurate with the circumstances, the justice that this country's citizens deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u63	Thank you so much. We continue with the debate in section 14, Ministry of Defence. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u64	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin to set out section 14 of the Draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2023, I would like to stress that when we talk about investing in defence we not only refer to transforming and modernising the capabilities of our Armed Forces, we propose investing in peace, security, freedom and democratic values. Investing in defence is also supporting the Spanish business fabric by strengthening the industrial and technological defence base that acts as a driver of economic growth and employment generation. We are faced with a budgetary lever that allows us to support research, development and innovation, R & D+i, essential elements for the growth and prosperity of 21st century Spain. We are going to deal with a wide variety of expenses, but let me stress that all the budgetary effort we have made would not make sense without a human capital of enormous professional capacity, as are the men and women of our Armed Forces. For us to invest in defence is to further improve the training and preparation of our military and, of course, to improve their working conditions, to intensify reconciliation and social protection, to increase gender equality policies and to enable them to increase their operational training to carry out their work, of which we are so proud. Ladies and gentlemen, since last February, the international context in which we find ourselves has been marked by the illegal, illegitimate and cruel war that began Putin, solely responsible for the current situation, by ordering the unjustified Russian invasion of Ukraine. From here I would like to take advantage of my intervention to pay tribute and witness to the heroic Ukrainian people and our utmost support to the Government of Ukraine in its fight against the invasion and for the maintenance of its territorial integrity and independence. [[Applauds]] This war, which has destroyed international peace and stability, poses a threat to the democratic values we share with our partners and allies in the European Union, NATO, and is affecting international trade, generating famine for millions of citizens throughout the world, especially in Africa. I would remind you that at the NATO Summit held in Madrid last June, we agreed to strengthen the stance of deterrence and defence, as well as to promote innovation and increase defence investment in emerging and disruptive technologies to maintain the necessary technological advantage that will undoubtedly intensify the necessary policies of deterrence to potential aggressors. That is why it is so important at this time to express also the support to our Spanish soldiers and to the members of the CNI who, at this time, within the framework of NATO, are in Latvia, Bulgaria, Braila - Romania - and are also in the Mediterranean Sea, just under the umbrella of NATO, helping to highlight the character of Spain as a serious, responsible and reliable ally. [[Applauds]] On the whole, the budgets in section 14 that I am presenting today are realistic and expansive budgets that respond to the international scene. The budget for Section 14 for the year 2023 amounts to EUR 12,825 million, which represents an increase in investment in defence policies of 25.8% over the year 2022. This increase also affects the autonomous bodies under the Ministry of Defence and the National Intelligence Centre. The appropriations allocated to the National Intelligence Centre are increased by 4.6% over the budgets of 2022. With regard to staff policies, the total appropriations allocated to Chapter 1, staff costs, amount to EUR 5375.48 million. These appropriations, representing 41.9% of the department's total budget, represent an increase of EUR 313.64 million, 6.20% more than the 2022 budget. This growth in spending will consolidate the wage improvements approved in the years 2020 and 2021 and address the authorized remuneration of public employees in the year 2023, which, together with maintaining the replacement rate by 120 %, will ensure the human resource necessary to ensure the operationality of our Armed Forces. Continuing these personnel policies, the Ministry of Defence will increase its budgetary effort in the area of training and professional development. We will allocate EUR 455.5 million to the education and training of the personnel of the Armed Forces. We bet on a unique and quality teaching model, innovative and personalized. As I said before, the war in Ukraine has shown, alongside the pandemic, the enormous role played by military health. That is why we will allocate EUR 178.2 million to hospital care in the Armed Forces, an increase of 11.24% over 2022. It is very important to take into account this provision of health care which, in addition, we saw and demonstrated as help and collaboration with society when we lived in the COVID, the pandemic and the great work that our Armed Forces did, which we will never sufficiently thank to have been with the elderly, with those who needed it, even by watching over the dead. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a special mention of the work being done by the military hospital in Zaragoza. At this time, we have brought in 32 Ukrainian soldiers with terrible amputations and damage from the war, and there they are receiving all kinds of assistance and treatment from all the personnel of that military hospital in Zaragoza, and I would also like to highlight the help of the Government of Aragon. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the items devoted to Chapter 2, current expenditure on goods and services, in the year 2023, amount to 1026.5 million, an increase of 117.47 million euros; this represents an increase of 12.92 % over the previous year. This increase will enable us to cope with the strengthening of the deterrence and defence stance agreed upon by all NATO allies, strengthening the preparation of force and improving the levels of instruction, training and availability. Investment will also be made in the recovery of infrastructure and other facilities with an impact on the quality of life of the troops and mariners and in the improvement of communication systems. For its part, the appropriations in Chapter 4, current transfers, amount to EUR 471.74 million, an increase of 3.57 % compared to this year's budget, an amount that will be used to strengthen the cybersecurity of the National Intelligence Centre, as well as the teaching and training of our staff in digital skills. Undoubtedly, a new scenario in the defense in which Spain should not stay behind. As regards Chapter 6, dedicated to real investment, the appropriations amount to EUR 5868.93 million. They represent 45.75 % of the Ministry of Defence's budget. This chapter, with an increase of EUR 2221.61 million, 60.91% more than last year, is the one that is increasing the most. Within this chapter, the allocation for special modernisation programmes amounts to EUR 4902 million, with an increase of EUR 2053.71 million; this is an increase of 72,11% over 2022. Thanks to this budget allocation, we will be able to continue, and I think it is important, the 20 ongoing programmes for the modernization of our Armed Forces, as well as to devote 1296 million to starting 13 new programmes. This remarkable increase in investment will have an important driver for the defence industry on economic development, which will also translate into an impetus for R & D+i. As a result, 22 667 jobs will be created directly or indirectly, and I think it is important to point out that there are 22 667 jobs here. Of course, and this is not a minor issue, our international reputation in the field of the defence industry is prestigious, as has been demonstrated by Navantia's contract to participate in the manufacture of three ships for the British Navy. It is obvious that no one escapes that these programmes, in addition to promoting the modernization of our armed forces so much needed, involve this increase in jobs and, moreover, give enormous vitality to certain regions. The construction of our frigates F 110 is done in the region of Ferrol, our new underwater intervention ship BAM-IS is done in the Bay of Cadiz and the construction of the submarine S80 is being done in Cartagena. It is job creation. He also mentioned the A400M programmes in Seville, which will create jobs in that city and in the surrounding area, and the combat vehicle on 8x8 wheels, which is creating jobs in Asturias, Guipúzcoa and Madrid. This could be followed by the more than thirty programmes that will be developed throughout the national territory. Thanks to them, we also make a commitment to transatlantic cooperation and the development of the common European security and defence policy, increasing by 55.2% the allocations for permanent structured cooperation projects of the European Union, also known as PESCO. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental lines of the Ministry of Defence's budgets, budgets that are more necessary than ever; budgets that, with a very strong increase in public spending, consolidate the trend that this government began at the beginning of this legislature. With these budgets we will reach 1.2% of GDP in defence in 2023 and mark the path of the unequivocal commitment to reach 2% of GDP in 2029. Budgets that respond to the challenges arising from the international situation that we live in and show the solidity, the commitment of Spain to our partners and allies in contributing to security, defence and peace in the world. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg just made a few statements this morning here in Spain highlighting and thanking Spain for its cooperation and participation in supporting Ukraine. Because, as I said before, to support Ukraine is to support peace, freedom and democratic values, and in that we are fully committed; there is Spain and there is the Ministry of Defence. He also said that the Spanish economy is fully committed to this positive impact because the planned investments, as he said, strengthen the productive fabric and drive the industrial and technological base of defence. I should like to conclude by thanking the parliamentary groups for supporting these general state budgets for the year 2023. With them, Spain - I will always say it bluntly - invests in prosperity, social cohesion, peace - yes, peace - freedom and security. As I said at the beginning, I cannot finish my speech without paying tribute to all the men and women of our Armed Forces who are currently deployed on distant continents, working for peace and security in a disinterested, silent and dedicated way of service and surrender, in which I am sure that all the citizens of Spain support us. I also remember all those who, in recent months, have lost their lives in service and those who, at this time, are recovering from the wounds. All of them give us an example of will, commitment, public service and love not only to Spain, but to the citizenship of the world as a whole. That is why, clearly, investing in defence is investing in peace, it is investing in democratic values. That Government was proud of that, as it was proud of the fact that Spain would be placed as a country seriously committed to the search for peace in all international spheres. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u65	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u66	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words in this rostrum today, which we have come to discuss on Section 14 of Defence, to be, without a doubt, for all Ukrainian men and women who are defending our democracy and Western freedoms in very harsh conditions at the extreme east of the European Union; all of them, because their success depends on the success of our democracy, on the success of Europe and, of course, on the continuity of Europe as a democracy capable of exporting values and security. To all of them and, of course, also to the men and women of our Armed Forces, because this section goes from them. They, who with their example, with their work, with their sacrifice selfless, of course, give us every day an example of what it is to work for the good and for the safety of all Spaniards. This intervention is also dedicated to all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that there is a significant increase in appropriations in the Defence Section, which is heading in an insufficient direction, but at least it is beginning to fulfil that commitment in Wales by 2% of GDP. You tell us about this increase of 26%, and of course we have to be glad that there is an increase of 26% of the appropriations, but we cannot be happy with how the allocation has been made. We believe that this should not be the distribution, that the distribution that you have in each of the chapters is not the right one. If it may seem appropriate to us the increase of investments, but listen, what happens to the maintenance of the operating units? It's just that it's a lot less than it needs to be. Because we can acquire new systems, but without personnel, without adequate people, without sufficient training, it is not worth us at all. I am not going to tell you anything about wages with a single 6%, when you know perfectly well, minister, that we have one of the most precarious armed forces in Europe in their wages. And I'm not just saying it about the troops and navy, I'm saying it about all the jobs and all the scales. Furthermore, Minister, this government has vetoed a lot of amendments from my parliamentary group that were aimed precisely at improving the conditions of the workers of the Armed Forces, the men and women of our Armed Forces. You have denied a single professional regime of the military career, you have vetoed us the amendment of the Law of Troop and Marinery, you have vetoed us the modification of the military career network, you have vetoed even the assignment of defense grounds on the island of Mallorca in order to be able to reverse work also to other sectors other than that of the defence within that island. Not content with these vetoes, you also try to deceive the men and women of our Armed Forces. They have devoted themselves to the distribution of scarves in two moments: the September one, with a payment of a single incentive, to the troops and the navy only of the units that are attached to the Force; the rest, it seems that they should not need any increase. And, another, you have made 100 euros now in November. But, Minister, where are the allocation criteria? You have not clarified the criteria for assigning these scarfs that you have dedicated to distributing to try to silence the mouths of professionals. Because, moreover, you have not presented these measures to professional associations. Minister, what's COPERFAS worth then? What is the purpose of the dialogue body? You are filled with the mouth to talk about social dialogue. For in Defense we have not spoken to the social partners of the men and women of our Armed Forces, who are legally constituted and with whom we should agree and who should be informed of all this. However, you don't inform anyone. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, how little social dialogue I see here, very little social dialogue. In addition, I would like to remind you that these scarves are not consolidated either and, since they are never consolidated, because they are unique, in the end they become a gift, and it seems to us that that should never be the way to conduct oneself with those who really, as you have well said and recognized, give everything to defend us all. Of course, I did not want to go without talking about an amendment by our parliamentary group, Amendment 3728. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment No 3728 was only intended to end an injustice of the extinct band scale. An amendment that was only intended to allow non-commissioned officers on the band scale to have an honorary access to the lieutenant's job, to the officer's job. Ladies and gentlemen, an amendment which was an honorary promotion, which had no need for credit and which, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, and here I am addressing you because I have to acknowledge the work of the minister and the ministry with reports in favour of this amendment, the Socialist Party and the Ministry of Finance have denied these professionals. It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen, a shame. They should be ashamed of themselves. We are talking about no more than 70 people who wanted to ascend honorably because they are entitled to it, because the law excluded them by a legal defect. You have taken away the illusion that all these people have been able to bring about an absolutely unfair situation and have recognized the promotion to which we all believe they were entitled. Both we and the ministry believed it, which has favorable reports. Both we and the minister themselves believed that, even, they personally committed themselves to doing so. The excuse of the Ministry of Finance is that we had tabled in Citizens an amendment to the whole, but, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing more regrettable than that excuse of the Ministry of Finance. And you are accomplices, lords of the Socialist Party, of what happens to those people, of the illusion of those people and of not being able to recognize something to which they were entitled in justice. They do not harm Citizens by not admitting or vetoing this amendment, they do harm to professionals who have given everything to do and who have done their work honorably. It's a real shame. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u67	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG tabled an amendment to the full refund of Section 14 to make clear our rejection of the significant increase in these budgets, which is precisely that of military spending; the most significant increase, about EUR 3 billion, with an increase of more than 25%, almost 26% of the defence budget, EUR 10 billion, which, according to the Government, aim to increase military spending from about 1% of GDP to 2%, as required by NATO, in the service of the American friend and its military and industrial complex, which will ultimately be the great beneficiary. The United States has long sought this firm commitment from the European states and found in the war in Ukraine the perfect pretext to make it a reality, with the complicity of the European governments, who, like Spanish, rush to allocate economic resources that deny permanent social needs to buy arms. But, in addition, the Government intends to pass this increase on to false data. As the Delàs d'Estudis Centre for the Pau has already denounced, if we add Defence to other ministries, the real military budget would amount to EUR 22 billion in 2022, i.e. 1.8% of GDP, and with these EUR 3 billion would add up to EUR 25 000 and already exceed 2% of gross domestic product. But the situation can be even worse because, if we compute all the items that start in a multiannual programme in 2023 and run until 2029, we add up nothing more and nothing less than 17 billion euros; in total, we would be talking about about 3.2% of GDP and about 40 billion euros. Even if there were to be cuts in previous programmes that were to be completed, military spending would be well above the 2% of GDP declared by the Government as target in the coming years. Frankly, in a situation of social and economic crisis like this, in a situation of extreme difficulties for the majority of the population, for the popular classes, for the workers, for the most disadvantaged sectors, allocating enormous resources to military expenditure seems to be a real barbarity. [[The lady]] From the BNG perspective, where the needs are other, the priorities must also be other: to increase social benefits, such as minimum living income or unemployment, to strengthen aid to the sectors most affected by this crisis, to increase minimum pensions, to boost care services and to improve basic public services, such as education or health, because, with a collapsed primary care, it seems that the priority of the PSOE Government and Podemos is to buy more fighter aircraft, more helicopters and more missiles. I am surprised, and I have to say this, the silence of the Union Podemos, which initially questioned this increase in military spending but now silences and votes. In their day they were critical, but it seems they are no longer critical, they seem to agree to spend more on weapons in a situation of extreme difficulties. I also warn the Socialist Party once again to stop demagogy and populism in relation to this, because after some interventions, I think it is important to clarify that frigates F 110 were budgeted in a multiannual programming. We are talking about an increase in military spending that is mainly evident in the budgets of the year 2023, which, contrary to what the President of the Government said from this very rostrum, is not going to generate substantial employment in the Spanish State, because we are talking about decisions that seem to go with names and surnames. Let me give you only three figures: Patriot PAC 3, 1369 million, and, as I said, it has a name and surname, Lockheed Martin, the world's leading arms manufacturer, of the US military industrial complex, which is going to benefit; there was a substitute for the C.15M, 45 billion euros, and there was a substitute for the AV8B and the C.15M second phase, 6250 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indecent, it is absolutely scandalous that this government's priority is to spend on armaments, rather than strongly supporting social policies and allocating these resources to policies of economic incentive and job creation, especially with a youth employment plan that never comes out. Madam Minister, you said that these budgets express your commitment to peace. No, it is not true, Minister; against the classic saying 'if you bet on peace you work for peace', you are not betting on peace. On the contrary, in recent months they are encouraging the escalation of the war, which precisely justifies decisions such as this increase in military spending. But the BNG is clear: from a leftist, anti-imperialist perspective, from the defense of peace and from a stake in peaceful coexistence between peoples and nations, or simply from a common sense perspective, from knowing what the priorities are at every moment, this abounding increase in military spending cannot be supported. And the BNG is also clear something else, that for us the priority is social policies, on which you do not meet your commitments in these budgets. That's why we're going to vote against this defense budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating at this time of the plenary session section 14 of the general budgets of the State, the Defence budget, for the next 2023. This is certainly a unique year, in which there is a substantial increase in the defence budget, around 26%, concentrated especially on certain programmes, which I will comment on below. We welcome the increase and hope that it can continue to be maintained in the coming years in order to achieve the shared objective - not imposed, Mr Rego, but shared - with our allies to invest in defence at least 2% of our gross domestic product, which is equally devoted at least 20% of it to special programmes of main weapons systems, including research, development and innovation. Again, as in previous years, the draft State General Budgets for 2023 is experiencing a significant increase in the real investment section of Chapter 6, in programme 122.A,modernisation, with a total increase of 15.30 %, and, above all, in the 122B, special programmes, with an increase of 72.11 % over 2022. Similarly, as was the case in previous years, with regard to training and support - this year it is growing a little, but in previous years it was even decreasing - the 122M operational expenditure programme is growing by 2.25%, and the 122N, logistical support, another scant 3.05%. Mr Honrubia spoke yesterday, in a horribly angry way - as usual, inducing hatred of our parliamentary group, and which he so criticizes in actions that are produced by desalmados with which we have nothing more or less to see than in the United States of America - of the day of the marmot, that is, of the repetition of our arguments year after year, when year after year there is the same model of definition of the general budgets of the state for defense. In our view - if, with the permission of Mr Honrubia or the left as a whole, we can have our own opinion - the overall growth of the defence budget, to which we welcome, as I have said, should be distributed more proportionately among these four programmes, since it is not complacent to acquire new weapons systems and not to grow proportionally to that investment in acquisitions the training and support sections. On the other hand, training is linked not only to the availability of new weapons systems, but also to the maintenance of effectiveness in the implementation of operational procedures. And within the 122.M program, operating expenses, as was the case last year, the amount allocated to operations abroad remains unchanged, postponing another year the decision to incorporate into the Defence budget the costs of our participation in operations abroad and not leaving them for contingency funds. As far as the salaries of the Armed Forces personnel are concerned, this year the increase in salaries is assumed to be around 3.5 per cent common to officials of the General Administration of the State. In our relationship with the various professional associations of the Armed Forces recognized by the Ministry of Defence, there is a recurring need to undertake a review of these salaries in order to dignify the exercise of the profession and the performance of their duties, in view of the pay gap between the military and other officials of the General Administration who perform tasks of similar gravity, danger and availability. The military complain little and do a lot, and it is up to the political leaders, us, to make the necessary decisions so that this altruism and the surrender that they show, which sometimes represents a singular sacrifice for their families, are adequately compensated. That is why for years, as a result of the low level of purchasing power of the professionals of the Armed Forces in relation to other officials of their level of responsibility, danger and penosity, we have been advocating the allocation of a monthly linear increase per member of the military, regardless of employment, of one hundred euros two years ago and one hundred sixty last year, that this year is necessarily increased by an additional 20 million euros to assimilate the lowest level of the non-commissioned officers to the administrative level 20, being the lowest level of the A2 of the Administration. The total amount of this accumulated increase would be estimated at some EUR 300 million, although this is not considered a final point, but a starting point for undertaking the overall review of the salaries of the military with the aim of reconciling their sacrifices and providing them with access to the benefits necessary for the development of an adequate family life. However, year after year the budget managers - as on the day of Mr Honrubia's marmot, considered the most social in the history of Spain - once again vetoed this proposal because it is not theirs; and not only to us, but also to other groups who presented it. On the other hand, each and every amendment tabled by this parliamentary group aimed at a more balanced and balanced distribution of the budget has been rejected, facilitating the availability by the armies and the Navy of sufficient funds for training and support, absolutely essential to guarantee their operational capacity, an essential parameter to assess the effectiveness of our defence, essential for the maintenance of our security. They have also rejected amendments aimed at compensating local and autonomous administrations for the impact they sometimes experience as a result of absolutely essential exercises for the materialization of the training of our Armed Forces, such as, for example, an amendment concerning the Field of Manoeuvres and Teleno Shooting, in León, which has for years not received the compensation it had previously received to heal the roads altered by the passage of heavy vehicles, specifically artillery, which carry out shooting practices in that field of maneuvers. In conclusion, they also vetoed a proposal, long pursued by various groups and agreed with the Minister of Defence, as Mr Gutiérrez mentioned, for the honorary promotion to the job of lieutenant for a group of non-commissioned officers on the reserve, without any economic cost; quite regrettable all this, indeed. In particular, however, I do not rule out that this proposal will finally be met, given its lack of economic impact. We know that they reject all these amendments tabled by the People's Party simply because they are presented by the People's Party, but we also know that they then implement some of these measures that are proposed to them because they know they are good.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u71	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u72	I'm on my way, President. Unfortunately, their lack of generosity does not allow them to recognize the goodness of any proposal coming from the opposition; a penalty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u74	Thank you, President. Minister, the most shameful aspect of these budgets, which is not the most progressive government, is precisely that the budget that increases the most is the military. The Ministry of Defence's budget increases by 26%, since it is allocated an additional EUR 25 billion, approaching a total of EUR 13 billion, and that does not take into account the analysis of specialists such as the Centre Delàs, which has previously been quoted by Mr Rego of the BNG, who look beyond the strict budget of the Ministry of Defence and who, looking for scattered items in industry, the interior or the outside world, get that, in fact, military spending is more than double, that is to say, about EUR 27 billion. The arms business, the military industrial complex, as U.S. President Eisenhower called it, is the ultimate reason for increasing the defence budget, because we are now told that it is for the war in Ukraine, but that is not true. The military budget has already been increasing in recent years, before Putin's aggression, at the decision of this government and at the request of the European authorities, which, I insist, already before the war, urged increased military spending; seek, for example, Jean-Claude Juncker's speech on the state of the Union in 2016, where he referred to this issue. Today, if possible, this sharp increase in military spending is even more worrying because it comes with a social crisis in the air and the climate crisis in full acceleration. The drought in Catalonia reminds us - in case we had forgotten it - that climate change is not a marginal, bearable issue, to shelter more or go lighter, but an integral transformation, which has serious effects on our societies, as we can well see with the restrictions that will be imposed in the areas of our rivers Ter and Llobregat. On the other hand, this Sunday also ended COP 27, in Egypt, with very disappointing results, which are making it impossible to achieve the goal of not exceeding the increase in a degree and a half the temperature of the planet. Activists, like those who stuck to the framework of The Naked Maja and The Dressed Maja, try to draw attention as a way to denounce inaction in cemeteries like the COP to denounce this negligence in reducing emissions, which will eventually make large parts of this planet uninhabitable. Well, military activity is precisely one of the most polluting ones that exist: the extraction of the materials necessary for the production of weapons, as well as the consumption of fuels for transport, maintenance and training of the Armed Forces and, of course, the great environmental impacts that wars have, all of them are activities that contribute to global warming. The energy transition will also consume a lot of energy and generate emissions; it seems a paradox, but it is not. Moving towards a decarbonized economy entails for a time a higher carbon emission, although not all forms of transition consume equal and a rapid transition will consume less. This was explained by a study published this week in the journal Nature by researchers from the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona and the University of Leeds. Given this evidence, increasing military spending, rather than investing in accelerating the eco-social transition, is an anti-progressive measure, a nonsense, a disinvestment in the future. We are told that the military industry generates jobs, for example, in Cadiz, where precisely a year ago we sympathized with the strikers. But the Cadiz workers themselves are demanding that the workload be diversified, so that - I quote textually from statements of the Bay of Cadiz Trade Union Confluence - production is respectful of biodiversity and the environment, oriented towards a necessary ecological transition, which would also prevent the workers from being hostages of the war business. And there are countless urgent industrial investments for the energy transition. Finally, two questions. First of all, we have already said in the defence of our amendment to the whole that one of the positive aspects of these budgets was the new taxes that would apply to big fortunes, to banking and to energy, although half of what was paid for these new taxes was ate by military spending. Well, in these three weeks, things have happened. The government negotiated the energy tax downwards with PNV and DeCAT and will finally collect half of what was announced, so in total, the new taxes will collect about 4 billion dollars a year, and if in principle military spending ate half of that revenue, now ate 62% of what would be paid. Secondly, we cannot forget that the departure which has also substantially increased is that of the CNI and that there is still much to be clarified about the Pegasus scandal at present. The government still does not accept the data that Citizen Lab gave and that the European Parliament gave for good last week, according to which we are more than sixty people spied on, and not just eighteen. No political responsibility has been assumed and yet we are asked to support a budget with which to continue spying. All these are major reasons to vote against this budget from a Catalan independenceist perspective, yes, but also internationalist, ecologicalist and peace-loving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u76	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the Confederal Group we generally agree with the draft budgets of the Ministry of Defence as long as it is aligned with the modernization axes of the country and the Armed Forces. We agree with the reform of investments that enhance and boost the technologies and skills needed to develop a digital society that has to deal with new forms of hybrid warfare. However, we are concerned about the direction taken, which seems to close the door to Europe's plan for geostrategic autonomy vis-à-vis other global powers, and in this regard we are concerned about the unconditional adherence to NATO's replenishment, with the US imposition of a contribution of 2% of GDP over the 2030 horizon. Even former President Zapatero has warned of the increase in military spending in European society, which is experiencing an upward slope that has described as dangerous in terms of the reactivation of the NATO-led arms race. Beyond the investment in weapons, we would like to see how these budgets are going to improve the lives of the officers of the Armed Forces and, above all, we would like to see how they are going to improve their attention to their family and personal needs through remunerative policies that match wages with the work done and the risks involved. [[Applauds]] In this regard, I would like to highlight four challenges facing these defence budgets: firstly, to ensure an adequate number of personnel, without the current loss of the most experienced at the age of forty-five; secondly, to invest in maintaining the barracks and facilities of the armies and the Navy; thirdly, to reduce waiting lists in both logistical accommodation and residences in the units of the three armies; and, lastly, to invest in child care centres to advance the reconciliation, an objective that has been highlighted by the Military Life Observatory. However, by broadening the focus and taking advantage of the presence in the House of the Minister, I would like to raise some issues that concern us as much as the working conditions of the Armed Forces, and I will start with the mission in El Sahel. Spain has three fundamental objectives in its missions to third countries: firstly, to stabilize the conflict zone, and when we talk about conflict in El Sahel we have to talk first about Mali; secondly, to combat drug trafficking networks and human trafficking networks, and lastly, in terms of development, to promote democratic frameworks and respect for human rights. That is why my question, or rather my concern, is in what sense, Minister, and how these budgets will contribute to the development of missions in the Sahel, not only in Mali, but also in Senegal and the Central African Republic. On the other hand, and on global terrorism, a recurring issue that I have been dealing with in this House, and organized crime in relation to the terrorist threat facing the European Union and, in particular, our country, as a new scenario that opened up in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of US troops and the domination of the country by the Taliban regime, which is a revulsive to the whole of global jihadism, which has interpreted the collapse of West-held republics as a demonstration of the strength of the Taliban regime, I am concerned that this sends a message of success that nourishes fundamentalist propaganda through the Taliban groups that are promoting, as we are already seeing in Afghanistan, the road to historic regression. The other geopolitical implosion has to do with the war in Ukraine over the invasion of Putin, which has caused the proliferation of uncontrolled criminal groups, as I raised a couple of weeks ago precisely in the Europol forum in Brussels. Last July in Prague, both NATO and the European Union stressed that there are criminal groups that are taking control of some of the sophisticated weapons that we are sending to Ukraine and that would be being sacked from the country and brought back to the black market across Europe. Some of these weapons would end up in the hands of extreme right-wing violent groups and others in organized crime gangs. In this regard, the Czech Minister of Defence herself literally said, and I quote: It is complicated to avoid trafficking or smuggling, we did not succeed in the Balkan war and we will probably not avoid it in Ukraine. This is a huge challenge, and the Czech Minister of Defence said that she hoped that the countries that are delivering weapons to Ukraine would also be taking steps to track weapons and make a determination about that traceability. My concern, therefore, and with this I conclude, addressing the minister, is how we will contribute these budgets to the fight against global terrorism, organized crime and arms trafficking. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Cortés. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rosety Fernández de Castro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister of Defence, when following the invasion of Ukraine she appeared in the Commission, our parliamentary group urged her to step up our defence effort. He then replied, he will remember, that we will never reach 2% committed to the allies at the 2014 Wales Summit. A few days later, the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group said otherwise, and in that they are now, where I said, Diego, and tomorrow we do not know. Let us return to what we always have: this extreme left government has no defence policy and does not have it because the interests of Spain - sovereignty, security, prosperity and even the nation itself, which is what must be protected - have it without care. [[Applauds]] It is therefore pointless that section 14 of this draft budget for ruin is due to any rationality, beyond trying to please our partners and allies and to cover the most urgent shortcomings identified by the Chief of Staff, among the many that the long-standing incuria has caused in the Armed Forces. But now we are here to dispatch a procedure, Mrs Margarita, and in five minutes we will tell you why we do not agree with your accounts, as much as it comes boasting of a budget increase of almost 26 %, 25 billion euros, with the scandal of your fellow communists, terrorists and coupsmen - who of all things are - who would like to see the national state become weaker and Spain helpless. The times are not for frivolities or indifference, minister, because the world today is very competitive. A distinguished member of his department once told me that Spain could not participate in an arms race, a non-small excuse, but that Morocco and Algeria are the powers that in the Strait region are holding the arms race, which will lead the first to equal our defence budget and the second to double it. What we should be concerned about is that the geopolitical coordinates in which Spain stands have an objective risk before which it must play a relevant role as a strategic actor with its partners and allies, yes, but under any circumstances it must maintain military security to deal with emerging threats because the main commitment of the Armed Forces, Minister, is the defence of Spain itself. [[Applauds]] Having said that, it does not seem to us that those seven years that your government has given to reach the legendary 2% of Wales are a reasonable time. That quota represents a minimum, a minimum that was estimated in 2014 to be reached in ten years. We are in 2022 and the war has surprised Europe two years earlier. Mrs Robles, the year 2029 can be too late for Spain, as has been 2024 for the European Union, as jealous of its strategic autonomy as it is unable to face its risks without the American presence. What about our country, which has been Europe's red light in the defence effort! Let's go to the numbers. It is not easy to argue clearly because your department's accounts have been aggravating with clarity as a result of their complexity, masking and uncertainty. To begin with, if we look at the figures for special modernisation programmes, they increase to more than 38% of the department's resources, while the rest of the applications, including personnel and force preparation costs, increase by a modest 8.5%. We're not gonna get any better with this. With regard to the major investment programmes, we have already warned its Secretary of State that the multi-annual payments already committed by the Ministry of Defence, according to data from the General Intervention of the State Administration, amount to about 30 billion euros, which, together with the more than 20,000 corresponding to the new programmes, total 50 billion euros. This means that, if similar resources were to be devoted in successive exercises, the ministry would take a decade, no longer seven years, to meet its debts and commitments. You will understand, Minister, that, given the low reliability of these ruin budgets and what the background inspires, we are concerned about this prospect. In programme 122 Bravo we have seen eight reprogrammings by agreement of the Council of Ministers, which have caused delays in fourteen of the twenty-one programmes in implementation and difficulties in financial and industrial planning for companies in the sector. Does it not seem to you that it would be necessary at least to reach that long-awaited minimum quota, amortizing advances to release future resources? I must remind you, Minister, that the general budgets of the State are a formal law that must be complied with and that the investment of public funds entails the responsibility and commitment that they reach their final destination, without being worth technical or financial excuses. Maritime patrol aviation and submarine weapon are sad examples of loss of capabilities due to obsolescence of a material that did not come to replace in time; let's hope it doesn't happen the same. Close your ears, separatist ladies, as they say, with the innumerable F-35 Alpha and Bravo, for the Air Force and the Navy, respectively. I have extended much, perhaps too much, as far as large investments are concerned because, as you know, there is no more ineffective expenditure than investment in systems that, in the absence of staffing and support, do not yield results in terms of the effectiveness of the forces, the reason for being and the existence of the armies and the Navy. We must denounce here that due attention to military personnel and effectiveness are the two major victims of the so-called major programmes. The military serve Spain with loyalty and professionalism that you abuse when the guarantor of your well-being is the state. How busy are they in aggravating the memory of their dead that they have no time to take care of the living? How do you plan to secure the future of our soldiers and sailors beyond the age of forty-five? When does the department leave the equalization of the salaries of military personnel with the state security forces and bodies? [[Applauds]] The salary increase to officials will not close that unfair gap. On the other hand, we see that the number of troops involved in operational activities continues to be reduced from 76,000 in 2021 to 54,000 by 2023. What is happening to the availability of human resources? With regard to support, programme 122, Alfa and Mike, such a slight increase cannot alleviate the effects of repeated cuts in the maintenance of systems, ships and aircraft, having reached a maximum of 50% coverage of needs. As the availability of material, although scarce, is compatible with limited deployment in times of peace, the deficit is masked. But how can you continue to spread crediblely in the face of threats against our vital interests being so under enlistment for the action of all forces? We shall vote against section 14, Madam Minister, precisely because of a sense of state.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u79	Mr. Rosety, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u80	If more resources are to be made available, follow your own advice, do not be 'wasted' and cut in political spending. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u81	Thank you, Mr. Rosety. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u82	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My first words are to express from the Socialist Parliamentary Group our appreciation for the work that all the men and women of our Armed Forces carry out in Spain and beyond our borders in military missions in areas where there are conflicts, if there are wars, if they play life and if they play it so that we live more safely and live with the perception that we are at peace, but we are not. I would also like to express our appreciation to all the staff involved in the defence service for their contribution to the security of all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst images we thought we would ever see again have returned to Europe and they have done so by means of a bloody war. War crimes reach our retinas daily through screens in all their formats: rape of women, boys and girls; indiscriminate killings of civilians whose bodies are dismembered on roads through which heavy vehicles circulate; mass graves with hundreds of civilians and combatants executed in the greatest acts of barbarism and cowardice; war crimes; the daily bombing of Putin's tyranny on civilian installations to deny access to basic survival resources in the face of the arrival of winter, and the use of the genocide of the civilian population as a blackmail tool to subject the people. And this is not the only war in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard here the word peace, that word so manipulated and so manipulated by some of your ladies and gentlemen and that it is often used as a justification for criticising investments in security and defence by saying that the increase in these investments is not social democrat, which is not social. Where are the hospital beds in Ukraine? Where are the schools? Where are the parks? Where's the butter? Ladies and gentlemen, peace, in any of its definitions, positive or negative, must be conquered, sustained and maintained. Rigorberta Menchu said that peace is not just the absence of war and that we must fight for peace in all its extent. You deny investments in the defence of peace to the full extent of its meaning, positive and negative; you attack these investments because they focus exclusively on the perception of negative peace, that is, the absence of war, denying society's right to the full achievement of peace if it entails the just defence of positive peace; you prefer the concept of living on your knees to die on your feet - to ask Mr Rego - so long as the kneelings are not you, of course, and you deny society's right to the defence of full peace, that of social justice, if this entails having to achieve it by armed defence. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists are fighting for a society that fully enjoys social welfare, an egalitarian society and a democratic society based on rules, principles and values for the protection of human rights, and this society, ladies and gentlemen, is a full peace society in which the human being lives standing and not kneeling. And yes, if necessary, we are willing to defend this full peace with all the tools available, including our State security forces and corps and our Armed Forces, those State security forces and corps that some resort to when their positive peace is threatened in their homes. Yes, our Armed Forces, which a democratic State governed by law like Spain must use to defend our full peace. This is why these tools must be equipped with well-remunerated, educated and trained personnel, well-maintained, maintained and up-to-date means and equipment, and with sufficient financial resources to acquire the above. That is why, for the protection of full peace, these budgets in section 14 consolidate the investment effort of the previous years, moving from an investment of 0.9 % of gross domestic product in 2017 with a government of the People's Party to one of 1.2 % in 2023 with a government of the Socialist Party, which means an increase in investments of 25.8 %, with the government's target of reaching 2 % of gross domestic product by 2029, a joint commitment decided between the partners of government and not imposed, Mr Rego. The firm commitment of this Government to the contribution to freedom, security, wealth, progress and prosperity of the entire society and not just a few is reflected in the 60.91% increase in the investment chapter. Let us remember that for every euro invested, about 2.5% is returned to civil society. Therefore, investing in our defence industry, so demonised by some of your ladies and gentlemen, means creating high-skilled jobs. Only this increase in turn means 22,667 jobs. Their average wages are well above the national average. In addition, investing in the defence industry consolidates the industrial and technological base and, at the same time, improves the potential and the productive fabric, R & D & I, as well as the competitiveness of all the companies that are associated, creating an important tractor effect. All this, of course, without forgetting the investment in personnel, is that staff who play life beyond our borders, and even within them, so that all Spanish society can enjoy a full peace, a positive peace and a negative peace. While with the Government of the People's Party some 7,000 troops were lost in our Armed Forces, making it difficult to operate the units themselves and to reconcile the family, we have been betting on an increase of up to 120% in replacement rates, an increase that guarantees not only the coverage of the posts that were lost, but that of the current ones that are being taken out. In addition, we have been betting on an increase in the salaries of our soldiers by 3.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, the geostrategic position of Spain, the border of the southern flank of Europe and NATO, its proximity to the MENA region and the Sahel and the focus of risks and threats to security and peace make today, in a spirit of coordination and unity with our allies, these budgets more necessary than ever in its section 14. We need them in order to obtain the best tools of deterrence and defense that guarantee the achievement and maintenance of a human security that enjoys a full peace because, ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u83	Mrs. Cantera, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u84	I'm on my way. ... peace stands up and does not enjoy knees. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cantera. We move on to the discussion of sections 15, Ministry of Finance and Public Service, 10, Centralized contracting, and 38, Territorial Entity Financing Systems. For the presentation of the sections, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u86	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I compare in this session for the defence of sections 10, 15 and 38 of these budgets, as the President has said, sections covering centralized contracting, the Ministry of Finance and Public Service and also the Territorial Entity Financing Systems. Before going into the detail of the sections and before the statements that are made throughout this debate, I also find myself under the obligation to remind the right-wing bench that what brings us here is unique and exclusively the welfare of the citizenry. What these public accounts bring is tranquillity, stability and security to the citizens of this country and also to our productive fabric, nothing more and nothing less, which is what the public accounts pursue. So I'd say don't look for excuses or make up supposed rock-bomb plans to justify a refusal to these accounts. You know, and we say this throughout the debate that we have held in this House, that if this budget has a word that characterizes it is that of prudence, and that means that the Government maintains a fiscal margin that does not exhaust in the draft budgets, as it has been moved to Brussels, to meet the needs arising from the invasion of Ukraine and from the debate that we will also have in this Chamber of discussion of the decree law that will extend and update the measures that will be put in place on the occasion of Ukraine. As we have always said, we will support these measures until the last minute to see the forecast in the wholesale markets for the coming year and how both the light market and the oil market evolve and, therefore, the price of the barrel. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from your speeches that you do not want us to talk about the updating of pensions and therefore that our older people have a margin to help them mitigate the price rise; you do not want us to talk about opportunities for young people, so that they can have better training, more scholarships or more possibility of emancipation; you do not want us to talk about the items for the modernisation of businesses, so that we increase strategic capacity and productivity, and we do not want us to talk about the equality policies that are set out in this budget to give effect to the protection of victims or the prevention of aggression, as well as the promotion of equal opportunities, nor do you want us to talk about the shielding of health, education, dependence and, therefore, the social and territorial cohesion of our country. In short, noise, noise and noise so that it is not known that the Government is demonstrating with facts that there is a different way of managing the crisis with solvency, with rigour and with measures that allow a recovery - we are seeing it in all the indicators - faster and more robust. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot stand it simply and simply because you have seen clearly that the neoliberal discourse that supports you has fallen like a castle of cards. That mantra that the right is better for the management of economic affairs is, simply and plainly, a lie, and this government is proving it and now knows it by all the Spaniards. That is why they turn to the scorn, the insult and the insidia to accuse this government of all the evils of the world and to deprive it of legitimacy, thinking that this can have - I doubt it - a profitability in the ballot box. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have been a ruling party and, so you say - although I think with few facts - you aspire to rule again by choosing the way to attack the institutions to scratch votes. It is a sad goal to try to reach that Government by discrediting institutions and democratic legitimacy. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen - and we have seen this over the past few days - it is the wrong path for you to take when you set out to face territories and citizens, because that division does not make us stronger, on the contrary, it makes us weaker and, therefore, it makes the country smaller. And I know that you would want a Spain in which you only have those who think like you, but that is not the Spain of democracy in which we all belong despite differences, with our differences and from our differences. This weekend we have seen a cover of Mr Feijóo using the constitutional pact, and those who break the constitutional pact are those who permanently live from this confrontation between the territories, those who do not respect the constitutional institutions, in short, those who do not comply with the Constitution when they are interested in them, but, yes, they distribute card from constitutionalist to troche and ugly. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, in this Congress we have been discussing each of the ministers and ministers throughout this day, and we will continue to do so over the next few days, the opportunities presented for the development of budgets. In this respect, I would like to thank the improvements that have been incorporated into the paper and those that will be incorporated in the vote that we will have in the coming days because, in fact, I believe that this shows that dialogue can never be understood as a betrayal, but rather as a better tool that democratic countries have. To try to solve problems that have been overcome for too long is not to dismantle the rule of law, on the contrary, it is to strengthen it, because what breaks that citizen's confidence is injustice, to hide his head, to look elsewhere or to turn his back literally on problems. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, with the attitude you are showing, it seems that you prefer to live in affront rather than work for harmony. For our part, the groups that we support the Government will continue in that direction to create the climate of security, trust and coexistence that countries always need, but much more so when they have just emerged from a terrible situation, the result of the pandemic, and when they are facing a war in Ukraine where we have to strengthen not only the economy, but also the middle class and protect the most vulnerable people. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, that the budget I am dealing with today, the budget of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service, rises for the year 2023 to 3530 million, which represents an increase of 5.7%: a part comes from the increase in Chapter 1, which comes to cover not only the increases in the salaries of staff, including that of the seconded agencies, but also the forecasts of the public offer of employment, in which your lords know that we are working to implement the law on the stabilization of employees of the public administrations and also a provision is made for 282 officials to re-enter the selective processes already in place in the years 2020 and 2021. The current expenditure chapter for goods and services amounts to 110 million, with an increase of almost 22 million being incorporated to cover the expenses arising from the meetings under the Spanish Presidency of the European Union in the second half of next year; the items for the AIReF, so that they can continue to analyse the review of public expenditure and, therefore, recommending to the different administrations what lines should be followed; the lines for the electricity supply of gas and fuel which, in line with the price developments themselves, has an increase, although I would also like to stress that there are savings as a result of the energy efficiency plan that we are committing the administrations, or the heading of this chapter 2 on cleaning and security following the expected increase in the prices of bids for territorial services. Chapter 4 is endowed with 2175 million, 3.9% growth, with special funding for two types of transfers: external and internal. The external ones, dependent entities, with a budget that also has an estimate for third parties. This budget exceeds €851 million and stressed that we increased by 5% the transfers to consortia from the cities of Toledo, Cuenca and Santiago de Compostela, while also rising the one destined to the Consortium of the Special Area of the Canary Islands up to €1.29 million. In the case of internal transfers, which aim to finance the expenses of five of the eight public agencies that are attached to our department, there are more than 1323 million, with an increase of 183 million. By reason of time, in this section I highlight only two. On the one hand, the departure of the Tax Agency, which is increasing by 16%, reaching a record figure of 1232 million, which, as you know, is aimed mainly at combating tax fraud and also at ensuring compliance with tax obligations with personalized attention for each taxpayer. On the other hand, the second transfer is to the Transparency and Good Government Council, which is increasing by 2.7 million, because commitment to democratic quality, accountability and the implementation of some legislative texts requires reinforcement for a body that reports to society on the activities of the Government or other tasks entrusted to it. In chapter 6, real investments, there are 123 million, which means an increase of 6.5% for the acquisition and renovation of computer equipment, the revision of the real estate register, the development of open government in the digital environment, the drive for quality and innovation processes in the public administration and new applications in the Office of Conflict of Interest to make effective the verification that no person who leaves office subsequently engaged in an activity that is not expressly permitted by law. Chapter 7 is endowed with 474 million, 13 more than we had in this budget, and includes transfers of 221 million to autonomous communities for digital modernization projects. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, there are 142 million for grants to companies located in areas of economic promotion. Funding from autonomous communities and local authorities will be provided, the first, with EUR 15 billion and the second, with EUR 1 billion. Both are the result of the application of the territorial system and, therefore, the question is to consider in the draft budgets only the amounts that the financing model contains because, as you know, with regard to the participation of the entities in the taxes that the State manages is not recorded within the budgets and are distributed in the way that the organic law applies, but without having a reflection in these public accounts. Here only around 20% of the funds will be collected which will modulate the allocation within the system, as foreseen by the organic law itself. I now turn to section 10, centralized recruitment, which has a budget of 317 million. It is somewhat less than what we had the previous year basically because it culminated in the process of acquiring low-emission vehicles zero-emission vehicles which, as you know, was an initiative taken by the Spanish Government, on the one hand, to help the car industry at a time of very significant decline in demand for this sector and, on the other hand, to make a renewal of the entire car fleet with vehicles that were exemplary in combating climate change, as we have also been moving to other areas of the Administration. The objective of this centralized procurement is to continue contracts already in place next year and to broaden the subjective scope. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are pursuing not only savings through the use of the economies of scale, but also the reduction of administrative burden on the various ministries - also on those autonomous communities that are in addition to centralized contracting - which allows us to apply cheaper costs for the purchase of the goods to which the Administration is obliged. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the administration's resources for the latest competence assigned to this ministry under the heading of the section, I would like to say to you that, regardless of the economic context in which we have been immersed in the war, the territorial entities have had the greatest support they have ever received from the resources from the system. Also in the year 2023 we will again support some of the commitments related to negative settlement, whose first delivery we made last year. As you know, local authorities have not only one year, but up to three years to deal with the return for the upward calculation that was made in 2020 so that territorial administrations could achieve the quality of the public services to which they were obliged. I repeat this every time I rise to this rostrum, because it seems to me to be an example of good practice and institutional loyalty: with a drop of more than 10 points of GDP we supply deliveries to the autonomous communities and the territorial entities with an increase - not a fall - of more than 1.5%. Subsequently, we have not claimed this money, but we have provided in the budget itself the amounts so that these administrations can return it without any kind of impairment or reduction in the resources derived from other services: health, education, street cleaning or'any other that have to affect these administrations. This is why the autonomous communities of common system will receive 135 273 million next year, 24% more than in the financial year 2022, and for the local entities these deliveries will translate into 23,235 million, 5% more than in the previous year, that is to say, 1113 million more. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, as always, by appealing in this debate on budgets to the responsibility and to the height of the eyes of all the parliamentary groups. These accounts are objectively good. They are a magnificent instrument so that next year we can face not only the emergencies, but also the transformation challenges in which this country is immersed. They may or may not share some items, but they all aim to improve some of the content of the draft budgets. That is what we have been developing and that is what we have committed to with regard to the vote on the amendments next Thursday. But to that end, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary that the draft budgets continue to be dealt with in the most reasonable way possible, because, as we always say, anything other than the fact that public accounts are recorded does not fit into this debate, even though some groups use it to mention it. The democratic health of this country also needs to be supported by public accounts so that citizens - not us - have better instruments. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is good to try to stop undermining the rules of the democratic state, to continue to bet on improving the framework of coexistence and, therefore, to continue to make a useful policy to get away from this disaffection that some citizens feel by understanding that the debates in this House are alien to their everyday problems or by understanding that noise and noise are the most important thing in relations between political groups. Despite the noise that many are trying to make, I would like to acknowledge that in most of the political formations in this House we spend our time discussing, discussing and discussing between different people to enable public accounts to be made available for next year. This is what it is about: to regain the confidence of the citizens, to improve their lives and, ultimately, to make the importance of democratic representation prevail that we all display in order to obtain a utility for this country, and that utility means approving for the next year budgets with the amendments that are considered necessary, but budgets that give us more guarantees of success to avoid inequality, to promote the productive model and, ultimately, to make Spain bigger. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u88	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I am glad that you have started your speech by taking a preliminary look, because that gives me the option of doing the same. You say that these budgets are the most progressive, the ones fighting for equality, but that is not the case. [[The Lord]] I'm going to give these budgets another definition or another qualification. These are the budgets that mortgage the future of our young people. That's right. It cannot be that almost 50% is destined to pay pensions and that they forget our young people, but that is so. This is the budget that mortgages all our children for the future; they will already realize but it will be late. It is also the budget you have agreed with your partners, with which you feel comfortable: with Esquerra, with PEcCAT, with Bildu... All we have to do is see the latest compromise amendments that have come to us in the parliamentary groups. That's what you want: to agree with Bildu, with Esquerra, with PEcCAT, with Compromises; that's where you move well. Then come the amendments of the other opposition parties, such as the Liberal party's amendments, Citizens, and they all veto them all. I now have the opportunity to tell you here that it seems quite striking to us to veto all the amendments that we submit to the Ministry of Finance, whatever happens. I have to tell you because, obviously, any amendment we make to the Ministry of Finance will touch the revenue; obviously it will touch them. We cannot understand - as I said here in the rostrum yesterday and I am going to tell you too - that we are being vetoed by an amendment which, for example, calls for the application of the zero rate to the purchase of food by private individuals for donation to food banks. Nor do we understand, for example, that they do not want to help the self-employed and veto an amendment which seeks only to facilitate the recovery of VAT from unpaid invoices and the elimination of the mandatory tax burden in the cash criterion. It does not want to help the self-employed, it does not want to do so, because it also vetoes an amendment seeking to increase the deductibility of contributions to self-employment pension schemes up to EUR 8500 per year. Self-employed people have a greater difficulty in getting better pensions, but that doesn't matter. He only cares to agree with those who do not really look for anything good for all Spaniards, but only for their independenceist ideas. We have asked him to deflect the IRPF tax rate on several occasions, but he does not see it well. You prefer to continue doing experiments to try to alleviate inflation and the impact it has on all citizens. This budget is not defined by the opposition - we do not define it - as a budget that is addicted, because that has already been told by the International Monetary Fund - even if it does not want to see it -, has been told by the AIReF and has been told by Funcas. However, we have also told him, because that is our responsibility: to tell this Government the truth. As I say to you, far from being the most progressive budgets and budgets that fight for equality, they are budgets that, unfortunately, have mortgaged all our young people. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u89	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking to defend some specific amendments; some are actually more related to industrial policy, although they are functionally dependent on this ministry. I am starting with a heading that will enable Alcoa's public intervention to ensure the continuity of the activity of this factory in A Mariña and the maintenance of the totality of the jobs. It is known that Alcoa finally reached an agreement to temporarily halt the activity with the commitment that it would start in January 2024, but the truth is that the company itself recognizes difficulties in doing so. In any case, it is undeniable that the best solution, the only one that guarantees the continuity of Alcoa and the jobs in A Mariña, goes through a public intervention. That is why we maintain this same amendment that we have already tabled in previous years. We are also proposing an amendment of EUR 100 million to transform NavantiaFerrol into an integral industrial complex that can diversify its activity and that will firmly incorporate civil shipbuilding, because it is civil shipbuilding that will really ensure that there can be permanent activity and that jobs can not only be maintained, but also increase. It is a sector with enormous potential which, after an explicit veto, continues incomprehensiblely with a tacit veto for many years that has to be stopped if Navantia is to develop its full potential, for which it is also necessary to transform the facilities. Also in this field of shipbuilding, we present a departure to set up a naval repair centre in Vigo that will help to overcome the industrial crisis of this city, especially in the shipbuilding sector. Although Barreras continues, Vulcano is closed, and it seems to us that this is an initiative that could have an important impact. We also call for an increase in the staff of the Customs Surveillance Service in Vilagarcía and to reinforce the contribution of the Ministry of Finance with an additional €4.5 million to the Consortium of Santiago de Compostela City, as, by the way, was its commitment. Finally, we present items to fulfill a commitment that is written in the Government's investment agreement - among other sites - to increase programming in Galician language in the disconnection of Spanish Radiotelevision in Galicia with own programs, to recover Radiotheatre with programming in our language and also to enable the reception in Galicia of Portuguese radios and televisions. As I say, this is a commitment that, from an economic point of view, is perfectly achievable because they are very modest departures, but it seems that the Government is resisting to comply with it. This would be a magnificent opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to say that we have reached an agreement and, therefore, we announced yesterday that we will vote in favour of these budgets. Allow me today that I have three and a half minutes to thank you for the talent and willingness of a collaborator of yours, Carlos Moreno; I want to thank you for the ease of reaching agreements always. We will vote yes because we have reached an agreement whereby Valencian budgets are increased by 62 million. We believe that this improves budgets, even if it is insufficiently; in short, it gives less a stone. We will also vote because we understand that, at the request of an amendment of Compromís, a path has begun whereby every year the general budgets of the State increases the departure for dependence and, therefore, they come closer to what marks the law, which is that the State has to comply with 50%. We will also vote in favour of them because these budgets comply with the provision of the statute adopted in this House whereby investments must be brought closer to the demographic weight that we Valencians and Valencians represent throughout the State. Satisfied? Yes and no; no and yes. You know that the funding system is still pending and the ball is on your roof. You have to respond to the allegations made by the Autonomous Communities. In addition, we have made some amendments which we believe are of common sense and which should be dealt with without further delay. For example, we believe that an extraordinary credit must sometimes be made available to alleviate the financial insufficiency of some autonomous communities in order to correct the deficit between the revenue of the financing model and the costs of the services entrusted to us by the State. We have also made amendments which we repeatedly make, which we believe are common sense and which do not represent a stumbling block for the public purses, such as the reduction of VAT on hairdressing and musical instruments to bring it closer to cultural VAT. There is another amendment that makes a lot of sense to us, which does not mean an increase and which - I insist - should be studied and approved, which is the amendment of the General Subsidy Act to help basically small and medium-sized enterprises with all the obstacles they have to hiring or subcontracting with technological centres within the framework of subsidised R & D & I activities. In the end, companies have to give up public subsidies or work only with projects of less than EUR 15 000. This is therefore an amendment that shares all the state's technology centres and I think it would be reasonable if it could be addressed for the benefit of small businesses. That's all, because my time is up. I repeat that we will vote on these budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u93	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Elorriaga Pisarik has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u94	Thank you, President. Today we are debating the last budgets of the legislature and with them there is written testimony, Minister, of the failure of its management at the head of the department. And I don't say it at all general and obvious, often repeated. I am not saying this because the macroeconomic picture on which they are based is completely denied by reality and by all the study services, nor by the irresponsibility involved in expanding structural public spending with the fragile coverage that some short-term income gives it, nor by the new increase in the public debt that they are going to generate, nor by the historical record that will be reached in the fiscal pressure on the Spaniards as long as the incomes of the families continue to decrease. Nor do I say this most humiliatingly, that is, because they are budgets negotiated in a shameful way under the coercion of independenceists of different kinds and exchanging votes in this House for crimes and prisoners. I'm saying that for something much closer to your responsibility. It began the legislature with two major tasks: on the one hand, the revision of the tax system and, on the other, the revision of the financing system. In both tasks he has failed and these accounts are the proof. Neither find any reflection in the figures. But to these two tasks was added a third, also fundamental, to organize the distribution and use of the funds received from the European Union through the recovery programme. Also in this he closes his stage in the ministry with another failure. The variation in the competencies entrusted to the ministry and the continuous dance of leaders at the head of the various areas could already give an idea of the lack of direction of the department, but if we go down to the concrete data of reality they are much worse than we could imagine. He has destroyed the ministry in just four years as a headline. His first failure was the counter-reform of the tax system. It is not very worthwhile to elaborate on the reasons for the need to address a comprehensive reform of the Spanish tax system. At the time, they were said to have as their objective the comprehensive review of the tax system, including direct, indirect and all public revenues. This reform was intended - they said - to promote improvements in the economic efficiency and fairness of the system. The document entrusted to the experts, regardless of the assessment that we might deserve, was left on wet paper without further explanation, and the reality of the changes introduced in the tax system over the past few years shows us a succession of improvisations, patches and tax caps which, if there were problems, clearly have multiplied them. Today we have a much more inefficient and unfair tax system than we had at the beginning of the legislature. These improvised and inconsistent changes have been the sign of the ministry's identity in the field of tributes. The brutal rise in fiscal pressure that middle-class families are enduring stems from a multiplicity of decisions that punish wage earners, increase basic consumption, introduce increasing complexity into our tax system and, at the same time, push us away from all international standards. That's the first failure. The second failure is the non-reform of the territorial financing system. I had the opportunity to negotiate the autonomous financing system in 2000; it was not easy, I admit, but it could be done. Much work was done with determination and commitment and an agreement was reached with all the autonomous communities, those governed by the People's Party and also those governed by the Socialist Party. The Basque Country Concert and the Navarro Convention were updated, all with the agreement of all parties. In this case, the reform of the financing model was a commitment made by the President of the Government in his investiture speech. Then he said: This will be the legislature of autonomous financing. Sánchez announced, with the emphasis and the roundness that characterizes him by affirming everything he does not intend to fulfil, a concrete commitment: to submit a proposal within eight months. Of course, it was unfulfilled. In December of last year, a partial proposal was sent to the Autonomous Communities to change the calculation of the adjusted population that serves to determine the distribution of the resources of the system and, after receiving the allegations of the Autonomous Communities, nothing has been heard again about the subject. Even last August the minister stated that, on the return of the summer, she will send a skeleton of her proposal to say, shortly afterwards, that the reform will be done after the elections of 2023. In conclusion, what is reflected in the budgets for territorial financing was explained yesterday with great precision by my colleague Antonio González Terol and I will not repeat it. Only its summary is sufficiently clear: they are insufficient, unfair and discriminatory budgets. But there has been a third failure, that of managing European funds; there are no two without three. The approval of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan offered him the opportunity to do things right and yet again has failed, has not missed the opportunity to fail. The delays in the use of the funds received are public and well known. They are delays that have already frustrated what was their main purpose: to ensure the relaunch of the Spanish economy after the pandemic. Well, we are the only country in the European Union that has not recovered the GDP of 2019 and the guilt that that recovery has not occurred is largely yours and your mismanagement of the funds received. I give you two very simple examples of that mismanagement. One, the sectoral conference created in January 2021 met for the second and last time in that same summer and has not yet met again; that is the model of co-governance in his ministry. Two, it has been unable to develop a management information system for the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The European Commission has repeatedly called his attention and, for the good of all, I hope that his promises of healing this time will be fulfilled, but the truth is that, today, the system is still not working. In conclusion, there are three failures that alone justify our amendment to return this section. Three failures to which the basic responsibility is attached in the preparation of budgets that not only do not serve the economic recovery of Spain, but also mortgage the well-being of all Spaniards for the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u96	Mr President, Minister for Finance and Public Service, ladies and gentlemen, among the amendments that Teruel Eiste has tabled, I would like once again to remind you of its competence in public service. It is an amendment proposing a new additional provision which, in turn, proposes the creation of a destination supplement for public positions located in unpopulated areas. The aim is to strengthen the presence of the State in territories at risk of depopulation through the presence of public employees who are going to play their role there and, therefore, to provide services to the inhabitants of those territories. It is a matter on which we must reflect. The attraction of these places must be increased for public employees: for doctors and teachers, for Civil Guard officers, for administration staff, for postmen or for firefighting personnel. The vertebration of the territory is actually carried out by people and the presence of public employees in these territories is a guarantee of progress in repopulation. Secondly, with regard to the abovementioned operating aid, they have introduced an amendment which creates a new additional provision to regulate the content of operating aid for businesses in sparsely populated areas. It is the eighty-first bis of the opinion. We were still trying yesterday to get them to accept a proposal to amend precisely that amendment of additional provision. Our proposal focuses on ensuring that operating aid is a reasonable and effective tool for combating depopulation and territorial cohesion, creating more jobs and ensuring that ongoing activities do not suffer from chronic economic weakness, and also that self-employed people have the same benefit treatment as workers in the general social security scheme. To this end, we have moved a possible point of agreement to start this path even without exhausting the maximum permitted by the European Union. We are proposing a bonus of 10 percentage points in business quotas, which is something like 50 % of the aid which the Commission has authorised for both existing and new jobs. That is to say, we are saying that we could start the process with half the aid allowed, but that, at least half, is not with the 1% that is intended to be applied compared to the 20% allowed. The same bonus should also apply to self-employed persons. For this group, the amendment only sets support with a monthly quota of EUR 80 for new highs for three years, but that is approximately the quota currently offered in general for new highs only within two years. Persons already in the self-employed scheme should have a bonus in their contributions equivalent to those which are finally applied to business contributions under the social security scheme. Madam Minister, you have made a very important decision, which is to apply operating aid in Spain. But if that decision is to be effective, if it is to have a significant real impact, it is necessary to give it sufficient economic content with the bonus formula that, for example, we are proposing. It is an opportunity, it is probably the time when this regional aid comes to be a lever against depopulation. They know, moreover, that it is one of our inexcusable conditions to give our support to the budgets, because we believe that it is a fair claim, of great use in reversing many of the problems of the three most impoverished provinces of Spain and that it also does not cause harm to the rest or to the public accounts. That is why we ask you to address these considerations, because they are of strict justice; otherwise, in compliance with the commitment made with the Turolenses, with all the sparsely populated areas and with all the citizens who understand that this is a measure in which the Government must demonstrate its real commitment to the fight against depopulation, we would be forced to vote no to these budgets here, in Congress, wishing that...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u97	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u98	...it may still be possible for an agreement to be made during the Senate process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u99	Thank you. Mr. Mazón Ramos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u100	Good morning again, almost good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I said yesterday that having approved budgets every year is better than not having them, and that the same thing that the Regionalist Party of Cantabria wants this for our community, and it has been doing so since 1995 in which we govern, we also want it for Spain. Today we need expansionary budgets that maintain investment and social spending, and these budgets do so. And they also comply with Cantabria. Valdecilla's debt is finally settled, and this merit is not going to be taken away from you, Mrs Montero; the same thanks are due for the inclusion of the development of the La Pasiega Logistics Centre and the funding of the MUPAC, the Museum of Prehistory and Archaeology of Cantabria. There's still some unfinished business. There are five living amendments: one in science and innovation, one in industry, two in transport and one additional provision. In my previous speech I have tried to convince the Minister of Science of the need for the first and I will do the same with the other two. We will have some budgets and we will have to congratulate her, although I have a thorn left, which is the veto that you have put on Amendment No 15, to include a deduction in the IRPF that would end the discrimination that young people have with two payers between EUR 15 000 and EUR 22 000, and those who are very little more than EUR 22 000, which forces them to make the declaration and this costs them more than the amount they exceed. You have vetoed it by miscalculation, because you have interpreted that the fee to be paid in the declaration is the fee resulting from the self-liquidation and not the differential fee, as was obvious. Of course, that's how they got a disorbited cost, when in reality this proposal gave them a much lower cost - as I will then transfer you - than many other payments you are making. Look, with a small amount, in addition to eliminating an injustice, they would make millions of citizens happy that every year they climb up the walls when they have to make the statement and this is what I am telling them. Yesterday I said in Titles I and II that it is never again that the important thing is the execution throughout the budget year - that defines good management - and in your department there is a great responsibility. Therefore, put priority on this matter and press the rest of the ministries to do the same, because, minister, your department is very important, on it depends very much on the success of the government, which would be very good for all Spaniards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u101	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for the explanation and defense you have made of the budget. From our political group, as it could not be otherwise, I would like to move our support and tell you that, unlike what other groups have said about failure and other issues - at least in terms of speaking here, which is the part of the Public Service - it is quite the opposite. We congratulate him on the management that is being carried out and believe that, especially in view of the point of departure from where we came from, some of the evils that were endemic in the public administration are beginning to be resolved, as a result of the austerity policies that were implemented during the Rajoy government years and that at last they seem to be gradually beginning to be resolved. It's good to give data and analyze where we came from. It is clear that when this coalition government came to the Government we met public administrations that were, as is often said, made foxes. Obviously, it is not random, because there was a very aggressive policy of cuts, which in the years that Mr Rajoy was ruling substantially reduced the corresponding funding. According to data, for example, the General Intervention of the State Administration in 2019, of the 500,000 million that is spent on the State Administration and on public expenditure in 2012 was increased to 478 000 in 2017, and there we have the consequences. In addition, they came to the Government at the time promising that they would do nothing of what they did later. We must remember Mr Rajoy's famous interview in which he spoke that he could cut all things less health, education and pensions, and soon the first thing he did was a cut of 10 billion in health and education. What they did with the pension hut, and so on, we better not talk about, because I think it's general knowledge and we all know it. In the specific field of public service, I think it is also good to remember exactly what kind of policies they were implementing. The type of policies, for example, at the level of the replacement rate was: in 2012, 2013 and 2014, a replacement rate of 0 % overall and 10 % for the priority sectors; in 2015, again 0 % overall and 50 % for the priority sectors, and only in 2016 and 2017, when they no longer had an absolute majority and when it was clear that there was an accelerated deterioration in public services and a lack of more than worrying staff, established some small measures which were basically to raise the rate to 50 % overall and 100 % for the priority sectors. We can also remember, of course, the wage policies they had with regard to workers in the public sector. For example, we can remember - I said it yesterday - that in Mr Rajoy's first legislature, with an absolute majority throughout the legislature, not a single euro was raised to the salaries of public sector workers; from 2012 to 2015, 0% of the increase; for 2016, 1%, and then, as of 2017, once they had had the right to re-negotiate with the public service representative unions, they began to establish small increases that, compared to what this government has done throughout this legislature, the truths that cannot be considered to be a big deal. On the other hand, as a result of those replacement rate policies, obviously you did not take out public employment offers. The data given by the union, for example, is that from 2011 to 2020, as a result of these policies, 140,000 jobs had been lost in the public sector and in the specific field of the General Government of the State, almost 50,000 would have been lost. All this, therefore, led to the serious problem of temporality, which has been discussed here throughout this legislature on several occasions. Nothing more and nothing less raised the rate of temporality above 32% for the first quarter of 2022, and only now, following the action of this government and the law that was made on it, will it begin to decrease. Therefore, this is the picture that this Government found when it arrived and it was a commitment to establish appropriate measures to start reversing the situation. I believe that this is what the minister has done, as has been done previously by the various ministers who have been in the public service throughout the legislature. For example, we are already talking about the fact that, in 2022, we have the offer of public employment, between the ordinary offer and the offer of stabilization, which is more numerous in history, and that only within the General Administration of the State have nearly 50,000 places been offered and must be added to those which are in turn offering the corresponding autonomous communities, local entities, etc. In the field of the fight against temporality by the aforementioned Law 20/2021, although we were told that it was impossible, that it could not be done, etc., and put all the obstacles in the world, in the end it is being seen that the contests are being applied, that the offer is coming out and that everything is going normally. I also want to say, of course, that this government's replacement rates, from the first budget approved for the priority sectors, have always been above 100% and now we are again at 120 % for the priority sectors and at 125 % for the state security forces and bodies, that is, what we had to do to start reversing the situation of few workers and underpaid, of situations of abusive temporaryity and to take seriously the functioning of public services, which in the end is to take seriously the way in which to cover the rights of citizens, who depend directly on them. I would also like to give the minister the reason for what she said at the beginning of her speech - I also think I said it yesterday - and we understand that when they talk about these issues they cannot come here and give us the details of the consequences of their management during their previous government and therefore have to talk to us about anything else. Because, in fact, if we were to be told that they want to repeat the policies they did when Mariano Rajoy ruled or that basically what they want is to degrade the functioning of public services in order to justify and legitimise privatising policies, as is the case, for example, with health or primary care in the Community of Madrid and many other examples that we could put forward, nobody would vote for them and we understand that, in the end, they have to talk about what they are talking about, and that is nothing more and nothing less because we are doing it well and they have to talk about something else. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u103	Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u104	President, ladies and gentlemen, I am looking at a mixture of satisfaction and apprehension. The satisfaction is that this is the last budgetary device that the Socialist and Communist coalition government is going to bring to this House, because they will lose the next elections. [[Applauds]] The horror is for the terrible legacy that you are going to leave in Spain, a destroyed economy, with a position of your unsustainable public finances. Recalling Winston Churchill in a similar situation - to which he so much likes to mention Mr Sánchez - he said some illustrative words: Never before in the history of democracy - I add the Spanish - had so much damage been done by such small men. This budget is based on nothing, a macro-economic picture dead before it was born and disqualified by all. No one believes in their growth forecast for 2023 and therefore their income projections and deficit target are unsustainable. But with that being the manifestation of the constant lack of rigour of this Government, it is not the most serious. The essential question, as always, is the sacrifice of the general interests of Spain, of the well-being of the Spaniards and of the future of their economy on the altar of a fiscal and budgetary demagogy placed at the service of alicorts and mediocre partisan interests and, of course, of the enemies of Spain. Your new budgetary monster, Mrs Montero, is the final stalemate of the policy applied by you since your sad and unfortunate arrival in power, a constant rise in public spending and taxes. Since 2018 the first has increased by almost 40% in nominal terms. The second, the taxes, by 31%, while, what has happened with GDP? That we are the only nation in the European Union that has not recovered the GDP levels of 2019. This dynamic of irrational expansion of the state in the economy has placed Spanish public accounts in a dramatic position, of extraordinary vulnerability, in a context of accelerated decline of activity and rise of interest rates. No economy can maintain growth rates of its spending that double the increase in its income, and even less so when this upswing, in addition to being accompanied by an unprecedented rise in the taxation of entrepreneurs and families, need to be financed with debt, a debt that is close to 120% of GDP. And, to close this vicious circle, its waste and tax voracity have been accompanied by a permanent and unprecedented increase in the structural deficit. They have never bothered to put forward a medium-term stabilization plan and, despite the extraordinary income achieved in 2021 with the aid of the inflationary tax, we will close 2022 with a deficit of around 5% of GDP. What about budgets that take up EUR 583 billion of expenditure - including debt service -, a record figure in the national annals that once again increase structural expenditure and call into question the solvency and financial sustainability of the Spanish State! What about the new tax figures, which, with those carried out so far, constitute the biggest tax increase made by a Spanish Government in a legislature since the establishment of democracy and with an economy on the verge of a technical recession! You have already passed, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party. What about the increase in social contributions in a crisis scenario, weakening the labour market, which does not even serve to prevent social security from running a deficit! In fact, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one thing to say: leave, leave as soon as possible, because only from that moment will it be possible to have some hope in the future. [[Applauds]] What a pitiful example the example given by some members of the Government - I do not include you, Minister, whom you studied Medicine - who were supposed to know something very concrete, that never, at any time or place a fiscal and budgetary policy such as that which they have supported and support ever served, anywhere in the world, to reduce the deficit, debt and boost the recovery of the economy. How has Mr Escrivá, for example, lent himself to this - and already excludes Mrs Calviño -? Ladies and gentlemen, today we are attending a funeral, that of a government that has carried out the worst economic and budgetary management of democracy. His legacy will be a case of study - no doubt - of how an economic situation such as that faced by Spain is not addressed. We have had a bad government under dramatic circumstances and we are paying a high price for it. I trust and hope that the Spaniards, who are the victims of their actions, will return them to their rightful place, the political irrelevance in the opposition. Let's see if a long stay in the purge of the Socialist Party helps them to regain responsibility and sanity, because the one who is following his agenda is the Communist Party. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u105	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u106	Thank you, President. The minister, once again, has succeeded. For the third time he presents the budgets in time and in form, and he does so against the forecast of the right, which repeated until the satiety that the budget of 2021 and, then, that of 2022, would be the last of the legislature. [[applause]] It's obvious they didn't get it right, as always. [[Applauds]] We have budgets, those of 2023, that are prudent, responsible, adjusted to the economic reality of the country and necessary to give stability and security to investors, administrations and citizens in general; especially important in the face of a volatile macroeconomic scenario, because they are framed in a context of international uncertainty. A job therefore, minister, not without difficulties, whose recognition we ask you to transfer one more year to your entire team and workers of the ministry. [[Applauds]] Although some are committed to not recognizing it, the budgets were born endorsed by the AIReF and have been prepared with extreme prudence in terms of revenue forecasting, as both the president of this institution and the governor of the Banco de España testify in their appearances. prudent and responsible revenue that does not question the economic pillars that underpin the budgets. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel utters words that are not perceived]] The Right questions the revenue forecasts as well as they did for the previous budgets, and the reality has left them in evidence, because the Socialist and Progressive Government has fulfilled and exceeded its revenue forecasts in 2021. And with regard to the deficit, the European Commission is improving our closure forecast for this year, something that the Rajoy Government has never managed to achieve. Therefore, once again, it was not the People's Party that was right in its predictions, and that after a global epidemic had passed, the eruption of a volcano and now the effects of the war in Ukraine that, by the way, the People's Party did not mention in its intervention, I do not know whether because the one that is far from reality is, indeed, you and not the Government. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you, with Feijóo at your head, claimed Liz Truss, who, by the way, lasted less in the government than a lettuce. Now that your conservative successor announces increases to the richest and the big companies, will they change and then support these budgets? They're gonna do it? [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel utters words that are not perceived]] Whoever made the biggest rise in taxes in democracy and in the midst of the crisis was the People's Party in 2012, it has not been this government. Two out of every three euros of the rise were on labor income, putting taxes up to the sun that we, by the way, abrogate. Faced with the effects of inflation from the war conflict, the government presided over by Sánchez has acted on the origin, on the cause, which are energy prices, and has done so by suspending and reducing taxes on electricity - which were, by the way, created by the People's Party - or by lowering VAT on the gas and light bill, which has also counted on its negative vote. Measures which, together with the Iberian exception, have allowed Spain for the second consecutive month to be the second country in the European Union with the lowest inflation, only behind France. Because, despite the apocalyptic predictions of the right, this country reduces inflation, continues to grow, creates employment and is a pole of attraction for important private investors. Although some are trying to boycott the granting and scope of European funds, Spain will be the first country to formally request the third tranche, after having received the previous ones with credit, which reached 31 036 million euros. Thus, a success of the Government. [[Applauds.-Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel utters words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was the People's Party government that put the greatest weight of the financial crisis on the workers and the most vulnerable, not this government. The fiscal policy of the socialist and progressive government has made our fiscal system more fair and progressive, calling for a greater fiscal effort on the one who has the most and who benefits most from the crisis, and thus being able to implement social measures in the face of the current scenario of adversity. These Budgets continue along these lines in order to ease the fiscal burden on those with less economic capacity. Evidence of this is that more than 50% of workers will benefit from reductions in the IRPF, and SMEs and self-employed will benefit from tax reductions while greater contributions to large capital and large enterprises will be required. The Government has successfully addressed the crisis of COVID with measures and solutions for citizenship and the business fabric. It has allowed economic recovery in a shorter time than in other crises, reaching the record number of more than 20 million members. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel utters words that are not perceived]] These new budgets will enable us to consolidate recovery, strengthen public services, combat inequality, benefit a social majority and boost economic efficiency. Some of you, ladies and gentlemen, come to this rostrum and say that you are concerned about Spain and the Spanish, but at the same time you are voting against all the measures that benefit you. They have voted against raising the inter-professional minimum wage and all the measures that protect the most vulnerable and, as could not be expected less from you, they will also vote against the revaluation of the pensions contained in these budgets, as they also did in the Committee on Budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets benefit pensioners, yes, but they also benefit young people, they benefit the municipalities by transferring 5% more resources to them, and they also benefit the autonomous communities with 24% more, which you voted against. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u107	Please, just a second. Mrs. Montesinos, please don't repeat the interruption. I ask you to keep silent respectfully the person who intervenes. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u108	Thank you. As I said, there are some who claim investments, but then the truth is that they are going to vote against those investments. [[Applauds]] They will vote against increased funding for communities, increased funding for the Valencian Community, and increased investment for Alicante. They are precisely going to vote against greater investment for all the territories. Because, as I say to you, budgets also benefit public employees with wage improvement, they benefit dependents and the most vulnerable, who will also receive more resources, they benefit the business fabric committed to innovation, digitisation and environmental sustainability, they benefit a social majority that will see their public services strengthened. In short, we are making progress in social cohesion, we are making progress in territorial cohesion and, therefore, we are calling for the approval of these sections and of the budgets in general. Spain deserves it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u109	Thank you very much. We move on to the debate in section 16, Ministry of the Interior. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before the plenary of the Congress of Deputies to present for the third time in this legislature section 16 of the general budgets of the State, corresponding to the Ministry of the Interior. In the same way as I did on previous occasions, I would like to thank my first words for the extraordinary work carried out by the more than 192 000 public employees who make up the department. They have been, as has been recalled on other occasions, three extremely complex years in which we have had to face all kinds of adverse situations. We practically started the legislature having to face a pandemic in which our public employees had the responsibility to ensure the restrictions of mobility in the different states of alarm, the provision and operation of essential services or the protection of the prison population and prison workers. Three years in which the National Civil Protection System had to deal with adverse weather events such as the damasto the drunk Filomena, in which we also had to turn the department's set of capacities to deal with the volcanic eruption of the island of La Palma or in which the Asylum and Refugee Office - which, by the way, this year celebrates its 30th anniversary - has had to manage nothing less than two humanitarian crises, Afghanistan and Ukraine. Three not easy years in which our more than 192,000 employees have reacted, as they always do, with surrender, work capacity and efficiency in resolving any crisis. Three years in which this House has played an extraordinary role, since it is no doubt you, ladies and gentlemen, who, by providing the Executive with budgetary powers, allow all these actions to be carried out with the appropriate resources and means. Therefore, in this third intervention, I would also like to thank the groups for their work in the successive general budgets of the State, since, by allowing them to be adopted, by proposing amendments and alternatives, they certainly demonstrate a firm commitment to a policy such as that of the Ministry of the Interior, which consists nothing more and nothing less than to give effect to the free exercise of our fundamental rights and our public freedoms, one of the greatest responsibilities of the State. Mr President, the general state budgets for 2023 are a road map for the social majority of our country, as has been recalled. These are budgets that strengthen and expand our welfare state, where 58.5%, i.e. almost 6 out of 10 euros, are allocated to social expenditure, as you know, and where the wage situation of public employees is improved, rising from 2.5 to 3.5% this year. In addition, a new model of growth of our economy based on intelligence, inclusion and, of course, sustainability is being promoted, with 72% of the European funds being devoted to the change of productive model in key strategic areas such as industrialization, digitisation or energy efficiency. They are therefore budgets that we can define as the social justice and prosperity accounts, but they are also the security budgets because, in line with the strategic vision that guides the elaboration of the general state budgets by 2023, from the Ministry of the Interior we have set up accounts aligned with national challenges - to collaborate in the ecological and digital transition and the drive for reforms and investments that improve infrastructure and technological capabilities within the framework of a society that tends to digitalize - and to consolidate the deployment of renewable energies while enhancing sustainable mobility. Similarly, these budgets seek to generate synergies that enhance the use of resources from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism in order to achieve as fully as possible the recovery objectives that are being pursued. Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that the general budgets of the State for 2023 make it possible to achieve three key objectives. First, it is the budgets that consolidate the work of security recovery as a public good. Ladies and gentlemen, in these more than four years the current team of the Ministry of the Interior has had as a priority the reversal of the cut-off policies implemented in previous years. In this line, the general budgets for 2023 consolidate the path of recovery already begun with the budgets of 2021 and 2022. They also support the strategic lines of the 2030 Security Model, providing the agencies, departments and entities of the Ministry of the Interior with the necessary capacities and resources to improve resilience and responsiveness, and - more importantly - make security a strategic ally of the ecological and digital transition and thus of the change of productive model. To achieve this, we will achieve a record investment in staff, with more than EUR 8 billion, an increase of 6.5% over the previous year. It is an investment that will allow us to have, for example, 2169 new staff in the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions, which will be incorporated in 2023, from the public job offers of previous years. It will also increase the remuneration of government employees in the ministry by between 2.5 and 3.5%, which can be increased on the basis of different variables linked, as you know, to inflation or nominal GDP. It is also an investment that will allow us to incorporate in 2023 more than 4600 members of the State security forces and bodies, with a public employment offer consisting of almost 2500 new members of the basic National Police scale and 150 of its executive scale, as well as 2000 new cables and guards and 65 new officers of the Civil Guard. Therefore, we can say that with these general state budgets we will achieve in 2023 the maximum historical strength in the National Police and the Civil Guard, recovering more than 13,000 agents that were lost during the last governments of the People's Party. Thus, more agents in our peoples, more agents in our cities and more agents in our borders. And more agents also with more means, as reported by the Director General of the National Police and the Director General of the Civil Guard during their appearances last October 19th to expose the budgets. Also more agents, by the way, better paid, since with the approval by your ladies and gentlemen of the general budgets of the State by 2023 the retributive improvements of the forces and bodies of security of the State will reach an increase of 38 % -38 % - since 2018, an investment that will also achieve the protection of our rights and our freedoms. Here is, for example, the investment in the proper development of electoral processes, of 380 million euros. They also involve the consolidation of improvements in the care of victims of terrorism, implemented in the general budgets for 2022, the project of investment actions in cybersecurity and the completion of the Asylum and Refugee Office, which we started in 2018 and which will be reflected in the increase of the endowment linked to international protection with the inauguration of the new headquarters. In addition, there is investment in personnel and efficiency in the application that supports the management of the files or also the expandable credit of almost 17 million euros, aimed at strengthening the capacities of the National Civil Protection System in order to strengthen the protection of groups with greater risk of social and personal vulnerability in the event of disasters. Mr President, the second objective of the general state budgets in section 16 seeks to make security a strategic ally in the reforms of the productive model, in the ecological transition and in the digitisation of Spanish society, as indicated at the beginning. In this regard, the path initiated in 2021 will continue in key projects such as digital identity, mainly in the area of the so-called DNI 4.0, managed by the Directorate-General for Police, which will have a budget of 22.5 million euros. In addition, EUR 11 million will be allocated to training in digital skills for members of State security forces and bodies. These actions will also be reflected in the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions, which increases its Chapter 6 by 19,58 % in order to finance actions for the improvement of the energy performance of prison buildings, as well as for the digital transformation of the Prison Administration, as will their reflection in the Ministry's undersecretariat, where 4 million euros will be allocated between Chapters 2 and 6 for the consolidation of the digital plan and the launch of a quality office for digital transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, the third key objective of this section 16 is the consolidation of the autonomous bodies of the Ministry of the Interior. The General Directorate of Traffic increases staff costs by more than 5 million in order to meet the expansion of 114 members of the Civil Guard Trafficking Group. In addition, EUR 62 million is allocated to the long distance traffic management system project. These budgets also make steady progress in the consolidation of the National Police University Centre, which, as already done with the Civil Guard University Centre, will, together with the Cuenca Prison Studies Centre, be a determined commitment of the Government of Spain for training excellence, research and, which is also very important, for the deconcentration of agencies as a tool for territorial cohesion in the face of the demographic challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, 2023 will be the year of its consolidation and effective implementation. I am finishing, Mr President, and I want to do so by highlighting the infrastructure work of the Society of Prison Infrastructures and Equipment, SIEPSA. As you know, since January 2019, in addition to the infrastructure of the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions, CIEPSE has been entrusted with the implementation of the infrastructure plan and since 2022 it is the responsibility of this society to carry out nothing less than twenty-five actions in Civil Guard barracks, which correspond to the Energy Transition Plan of the General Administration of the State, financed from European funds. In 2023 SIEPSE will develop investments worth almost EUR 170 million, an increase of 16.77 % over 2022. This work materializes in the development of the so-called PASEO, which, as you all know, is the Plan of Amortization and Creation of Prisons, which will be endowed this year 2023 with 58200.000 euros for actions as relevant as, for example, the Centre Penitentiary North III or the comprehensive reform of the centre of El Dueso, among other activities, such as those scheduled in Jaén, Alhaurín de la Torre, Segovia, Villena, Badajoz, Aranjuez, Soto del Real, Alcalá de Guadaira, Daroca, Cuenca, Herrera de la Mancha, Brieva, Castellón, Alicante, Alhama or Pereiro de Aguiar, while in the field of infrastructures there are more than 97 million euros for the development of the Plan 2019-2026, in this year 2023, in twenty-four actions in the field of infrastructures corresponding to the forces and bodies of State security, which will be completed with twenty-five actions in different quarters of the Civil Guardia, as indicated in the framework of the General Administration. I conclude, Mr President, and do so by reiterating the alignment of section 16 with the main objectives of the general budgets of the State and recalling that these budgets, in addition to being a road map for the social majority of our country and being an instrument for welfare and prosperity, are also the encrypted and accounting expression of this Government with the recovery of security as a public good. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u111	Thank you very much. In defence of amendments, Mr García Adanero has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in favour of the amendments of the Joint Group, although in this case they are not of our party in particular, but of one of the members of the Joint Group, and the objective, as well as of us, is to improve the conditions of both the barracks and the people who work, in this case the Civil Guard, in different areas of Spain, and especially in rural areas. In this budget, as is already known, where there are more doubts it is in who will execute it. I think it is the doubt that there is at present, if the budget is to be implemented by the minister who has gone out to explain it or is to be another person, not long from now, who is going to be implementing it. In fact, his intervention gave a sense of farewell. You've made an epitaph summary almost with which I don't know if it's that you're already giving up your possible replacement, it seems, in a short space of time. It is true that we have asked for his cessation and resignation, because there have been many reasons, but surely the cessation can come precisely from his own partners, who are now putting him on the loose rope. In any case, if a summary is made of what has been done, it is not worth choosing only part of the summary. You have told us how important the work of the state security forces and bodies in the pandemic was, which is obvious, but you could also have reminded us that in the pandemic it was when you authorized the Batasuna members to visit the old prisoners when the others can't leave the house. That would also be good to remember. [[Applauds]] Or it would also be good to remember how the head of the Civil Guard came out to say that we could not criticize the government. It would also be good to remember if you are talking about the pandemic, because you have the custom of always talking about those parts that seem to suit you. You have said everything that improves the working and staff conditions of the Civil Guard, the National Police and prison officials. Does that mean they have to be satisfied, that there has already been wage parity with the outlaw police, with the Ertzaintza, with the Mossos, etc.? Can you be happy now? Do you owe everything to you already? I say it because then they usually say it's not. And I don't know if he's satisfied and thinks the Civil Guard, the National Police and prison officials are already well paid enough, and also if they're well equipped. Next week we will see what money has been spent on defending our borders, such as Melilla, such as Ceuta and the situation in which the state security forces and bodies are working there, and if with this budget - they have voted against amendments on these issues - they are also satisfied with the money they are devoting to that. In the end, is Spain safer today than three years ago? Is it better today for Spain to walk on the street - I'm not referring now to rapists who have let out on the street, I'm referring, without going into that topic, to people - or three years ago? Do you think it's better today, that people go out safer on the street, that all that increase that says it's happened is being seen by citizens? Mr Marlaska will understand that the other part of the budget that concerns your department must be said, that you did not want to say and that not because you have said it more often we will stop repeating it, and it is the payment to the budgets. You have a lot of involvement in the payment that Bildu and Batasuna make to the budget through the prisoners etarras. You are responsible for carrying out that payment, for paying it on a day-to-day basis, and I therefore believe that it would have been almost more worthy in some respect to have even named the people, the murderers who, thanks to the support of Bildu, have taken to the prisons of the Autonomous Communities of the Foral Community of Navarre, which already have many of them on the street by the decision of your Government. That would also be a good thing to say and, as much as we say, we will continue to repeat it, because not because time goes by is no longer a disgrace that you have changed the approval of a budget for letting go, for carrying and for working with the old prisoners in this Parliament. [[Applauds]] In fact, this morning they have already signed the agreement with Bildu, among other things - this affects us in the Foral Community of Navarre - once again for the transfer of traffic to the Foral Community of Navarre, or what is the same, for the Civil Guard to come out of the competence, in this case of traffic. You no longer respect the governments because, logically, the powers lie with the governments, in this case the autonomous government of the Foral Community of Navarre and the Government of Spain. You leave, and you are happy to do so, Bildu to pass over the president of the Navarra Foral Community, who belongs to your party, but that gives you whatever it is to reach agreements with some, and you do so at the cost of setting a date, in this case on 31 March, for the Civil Guard to stop exercising traffic competition in Navarra. They know that this, along with other issues, is a fundamental point for Bildu Batasuna's interests. You, for being one more day in the Moncloa - I was going to say in your case in the Ministry of the Interior, although that is no longer so clear - do anything and, therefore, once again the budgets of the Ministry of the Interior do not solve the problems of work or of the day of the civil guard and the national police officials, of the prison officials and of all the other officials who charge from your ministry, in their action or in their performance, and, on the other hand, once again become a disgrace to all the Spaniards when they end up giving prisoners for budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u113	Thank you. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u114	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Minister, good afternoon. Minister, who makes the speeches to you? Because the first thing you have to do is change it. In your speech you have come to tell us here today that you are grateful for the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups. But we've all been vetoed! I mean, he thanks us for doing a job to then veto everything and that it's a job that's not worth anything. Is that what you meant? Or did you mean to say that you appreciate the amendments only from those groups that are going to approve the budgets to you and with which you negotiate? Because then the speech is also wrong. Minister, there are many failures now, one behind the other continuously. And to come here to fool us, for it is sad at this hour of the day and after all that we have and what we have left of the budget. Minister, if I had to say all the amendments that have vetoed us, I would not have time and, of course, we have to talk about many things. I will only mention a few to you because of what you say are wonderful budgets, but you have vetoed an integral national plan for strengthening migration. I mean, isn't that a problem? For Spain this is not a problem, we do not have to agree or see how to improve this situation, do we? Complements to avoid the dearth of life that our forces and security bodies of the State have. A real equalisation, minister, real, real wage equalisation, because you have told us here today about 2.5 and 3.5% of the civil servants' CPI. That's not the real match, and I don't want to tell you the match in retirements anymore. Because, of course, in the area of retirements we seem to forget, but today the civil guards retire with 13,000 euros less per year than the Mossos d'Esquadra. That too must be equated, Minister, with which you are talking about real equality. I keep insisting. The amendment of the Civil Guard personnel regime to ensure that the Criminal Code does not affect civilian guards more than when they are on international missions. Isn't this social? You're the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen, and you see this? Does this mean any increase in credit? You veto the incentives for the salaries of the security forces and bodies installed in Catalonia. It's obvious. You see the salary equalization of prison officials. You veto a law of modernization of the territorial deployment of the Civil Guard. You will see the update of the diet regime and the use of your own vehicle, which is unworthy, Minister, that the diet that officials of the state security forces and bodies charge are at 170 euros for maintenance and accommodation, because you know that with that you cannot even pay a snack of squid. But if you know! How come they don't update this? That the diet has not been updated for twenty years. You veto the provision of aerial means of extinction for the Canary Islands. Of course, as the problem of fire or the problem of fires has not been a problem, you go and veto it. You will see the increase in the maritime surveillance of the Canary Islands of the Civil Guard. You will see the declaration of a special area of uniqueness in the Gibraltar Field. You see the strengthening of the fight against drug trafficking and organised crime. It is that they veto everything, and then you tell us to thank the amendments. This sounds like hairdo, Minister, it sounds like hairdo. You speak of it as a social budget, of which you speak with the social partners. But if so, why do all the National Police Corps unions and all the professional associations of the Civil Guard say these are bad budgets? Minister, on the 26th you have a demonstration of police and civilian guards here. Man, they're very happy they won't be. And you don't wonder why? I believe that these budgets are very bad, Minister, that the only thing they generate is mistrust and that no one supports them. And I'm going to tell you why they generate mistrust. They generate mistrust for many reasons: first, because you do not talk to the representatives of the officials either of the prisons or of the Civil Guard or of the police unions. You do not talk to them, and if that social dialogue is not true, it is not true, logically, what you present then in the public accounts no one believes it. I am not going to go into what the budgets are poorly designed, which have been thrown on the ground or what the Bank of Spain says about them. I am not going to enter the macro part; I am talking, in particular, about your responsibility, Minister. You have prison officials exactly the same. The entire prison union group is telling you that these budgets are insufficient. Of the problem of prison health you have not made nor mention, as if we had not claimed for time and time the problem of prison health. And I'm going to tell you something else about why they all mistrust you, those 190,000 officials who are seconded to your department. For they do not know, among other things, by the partners who approve this budget, because the partners, those with whom you are so happy and who say that they will approve the budgets, part of them are the heirs and albaceas of those who killed them. And other partners that you have are those who do not want the state security forces and bodies in their autonomous communities, who want you to leave and want to throw them out. Those are the partners you use to approve these budgets, you and the Socialist Party. How will they have confidence in you and your budgets? [[The lady]] In case you're short, they don't have confidence in the things you say either. You have come here to deny many times during all these years that all the transfers you made from prisoners to the Basque Country were illegal. In October 2020, José María Arregi, alias Fiti, approached you. As soon as the Basque Government, another of the partners who also approve these budgets, the Basque Nationalist Party, approached him in the third degree and yesterday we learned that the National Court has revoked the third degree to José María Arregi, alias Fiti, who, if you do not know, I will tell you that he was the inductor of the attack of the Zaragoza barracks, in which more than fifteen people died. Of that, of Fiti, to whom the National Court has had to put back in prison, you told us that it was perfectly legal his approach and his third degree. I am very pleased that the National Court has finally decided to return to Fiti prison. What I don't know, minister, is if you have any friends left at the National Court. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u116	Thank you, Madam President. I see, Mr. Marlaska, that it stands. The minister with the highest level of public rejection, the minister who accumulates an endless number of scandals in his disastrous management, the minister of purges in the Civil Guard and the police, the minister of lies still sits here, remains minister at any price. Today you have no legitimacy or much less credibility. You are involved in the permanent lie, your presence here today is indecent. If I had dignity, Minister - I repeat, if I had dignity - I would no longer be here today and would have resigned. We ask you to leave the Civil Guard alone, you come to Congress to explain the videos of Melilla's tragedy as a political leader, and do not use or force a civilian guard to explain the videos to us. Be brave and take responsibility, and let it be in the Committee on the Interior, open, with light and tachographs, as it was done in 2014, something that yesterday all groups, except the PSOE, we requested. You are not the one to kidnap Parliament and force the viewer to be behind closed doors so that no one will know that he lied. You are not the one to censor the work of Members. You're not the one to skip this rule. Whoever it is, Mr. Marlaska, it's not. [[Applauds]] Now we just ask him to acknowledge that he lied in Melilla's tragedy and to resign. What credibility do you give us here today by exposing the accounts? None, Mr. Marlaska, none. It's to see you and it's to see the face of the lie. Today he has come to tell us that these budgets are not to improve the security of the Spaniards, but to assure Sánchez in the Moncloa. How expensive your budgets are, Mr. Marlasca! The budgets of 2021 cost 144 prisoners; those of 2022, 143 prisoners and those of 2023 will cost us 74 prisoners plus 19 who expect to do so before Christmas. How expensive, Mr. Marlasca! ETA prisoners by vote; budget prisoners. But you're not just paying with prisoners, you're giving more transfers: transfers of prisons to the Basque Country; the withdrawal of the Navarra Civil Guard; the transfer of explosive skills to the autonomous police; the withdrawal of CNI officers from Catalonia and the Basque Country; the transfer of civilian and maritime security powers to the Mossos; the repeal of the sedition offence. Imagine what the police who almost lose their lives by defending the constitutional order in Catalonia will think by seeing that you are now going to repeal and end the sedition crime. [[Applauds]] See if it's your budget for the security of the bad Spaniards and for the men and women of the Civil Guard and the National Police that I'm going to refresh your memory, Mr. Marlaska. These budgets have the support of these, those who hate and want to throw out the Civil Guard of the Basque Country, and you did not say or mu before this campaign on October 12. [[shows a sign reading: Alde hemendik]] It also has the only support of these, who harass and assault the police every day in Catalonia. [[shows a photograph]] These are the only ones who are going to vote on their budgets. See if they're bad, because they're going to vote for those who hate and cast out the police and the Civil Guard. This is the submission of his ministry to Catalan independence: he vetoes us thirty-eight amendments and is not able to veto even one of Esquerra who asked the police to throw Laietana. You didn't have any guts there, did you, Mr. Marlasca? He didn't have them. Today Spain is more insecure than in 2018. The crime rate has risen by 9 points since you became a minister; tumultuous feuds have increased by 48%; sexual offences by 20%; and thefts by 45%. Youth gangs have been macheting every weekend and you do nothing; the arrival of immigrants has doubled at the cost of the ministry and you do nothing; the octopus has been fired 46% since you are a minister and do nothing. The salary equalization agreement of the 2018 State Security Forces and Bodies remains unfulfilled in these budgets. The promises of equal pay for prison officials are also not met in these budgets. There is a lack of incentive in these budgets to cover staff in Ceuta, Melilla, Balearic Islands or in rural areas. Catalonia and the Campo de Gibraltar remain unrecognized as areas of special singularity. Zero euros to update the police and civilian guards diets, while you today charge 3000 euros more than in 2019, Mr Marlaska. By the way, what is the value of putting in quantities if they then leave almost a billion unexecuted every year. They leave money unspent, while traffic agents keep waiting for a helmet a year later. They waited two years for the coats, and they even had to create a group of WhatsApp to be able to lend the coats this winter to each other. Because they don't, they don't have a drug or alcohol test so they can do it on the roads. They're still without tasers, they're still without vests in the Gibraltar Field, with expired helmets. By the way, after Melilla's tragedy, they only have 250 helmets and have to give them to each other. They call them, even, hot stuff. The lack of protection of agents in Ceuta and Melilla is absolute. We have gone from eight agents attacked in 2018 to almost 100 in this year 2022, and they continue to wait for reinforcements and material that never arrive. Yes, Mr. Marlaska, look, these were the helmets on the day of Melilla's avalanche, they broke and the civilian guards were unconscious. [[shows two photographs]] Look, Mr. Marlaska, these were the crystallized shields they had to defend themselves on June 24th. They were without material, abandoned. [[shows two photographs]] So they left five people, defending a 12-kilometre border. Not to mention the mouse pistols, yes, the cheapest but worst ones work, compromising the lives of the agents. So you have the police, the Civil Guard and the officers of abandoned prisons, and the one who dares to criticize, opens up a file. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Marlaska, today you have the first prize for lying, inoperation, shame and arrogance. There's nothing but looking at you. He has a long future on Sanchez's team, but I assure you not on the Spanish team. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u118	Madam President, the orientation of the budget of the Ministry of the Interior is in line with the strategic vision of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2023, reforms and investments that will help to move towards a more digital economy and more socially, economically and environmentally sustainable. In addition, they are aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals, which the far right calls globalist conspiracy. There are sixty actions aligned with 16 of the 17 objectives to improve the quality of life of people, expand rights and preserve the environment. It is a whole sum of exaggerations, inaccuracies and falsifications of the reality that the People's Party, in particular, has needed to make up to justify the return amendment it presented to this section and its rejection in general of the 2023 budget, when the reality is that the increase in the personnel expenditure of the State security forces fulfils the commitment to increase and equal pay for these public employees. As the minister has already said, it is a 38% increase in this legislature, which the People's Party has never done, even though they are filled with their mouths giving their support to the security forces. It also envisages increased expenditure on civil protection, protection of victims of gender-based violence and victims of hate crimes as part of vulnerable groups. I take this opportunity to condemn yesterday's irresponsible statements by Mr Feijóo, who invented an alleged effect called for rapists. It is irresponsible and lacks the truth, and that is what happens when a person is put at the head of a party without proper preparation. The current penalties for rape are four to fifteen years in the Penal Code and three new aggravating factors are introduced by the law of 'only yes'; that is, there is no so-called effect. The increase in security spending and the means to improve police investigation should be highlighted. This is a necessary condition to combat the actions of the mafias in our country, to increase the effectiveness of justice and to ensure that they do not return to impunity. This is the case of the Russian mafias investigated in the Valencian Community, where at least the Security Council of the Municipality of Benidorm, Lorenzo Martínez, of the People's Party, was investigated. It is also necessary to continue to increase resources in order to guarantee, of course, rights at the border and in the area of international protection. More personnel are also needed for international protection, more investment in international border protection offices and the establishment of consulate offices to ensure access to applicants for international protection, as this has been the cause of the Melilla tragedy of 24 June. It killed dozens of people in need of international protection while trying to cross the fence because they were unable to access the International Border Protection Office. In other words, measures must be taken to ensure that these deaths and no other deaths at the border never occur again. [[Applauds]] These state budgets will also improve our prison system. There is a budget increase for the replacement of sentences for community benefits. This is an advance in reinsertion and resocialization of offender behaviour and also means savings for the Administration by replacing reinsertion with different treatment systems. And we welcome the investment effort in prison health, where one of the system's major deficits occurred before. In general, these General State Budgets prioritize four lines of expenditure: protecting those in a situation of greatest vulnerability and working families and strengthening public services, with particular attention to improving the salaries of public employees, with a total social expenditure of EUR 240 billion. They are also more feminist budgets, with the focus on care and with more resources for autonomous communities and municipalities to alleviate the cuts made by these administrations governed by the right, which abandon to their fate the most vulnerable, as we have seen with the health reduced to absolute chaos in the Community of Madrid. For example, unemployment benefits will also be increased by 20% from the sixth month, ending with the 2012 cut of the People's Party, which they approved with the slogan 'fuck the unemployed', as they will remember. All pensions, whether contributory or non-contributory, will be increased by 8,5 % to maintain their purchasing power in the face of rising inflation. This will benefit 10 million pensioners; it is an investment of EUR 190 billion in pensions, a pride. And it is incomprehensible that yesterday Citizens not only objected to a measure that improves the lives of our elderly, but also made pensioners responsible for companies refusing to raise workers' wages according to inflation. The only ones responsible for blocking the national agreement on collective bargaining are business organisations, in an attitude not only selfish but unwise. Companies would maintain profitability with a 13 % wage increase until 2024, according to the General Council of Economists, for the increase in demand from these better wages. Minimum living income and rental subsidies will also be revalued. But all these measures are possible because there are fiscal measures to raise more of those who have more, to sustain these policies to support the most vulnerable people. It is an increase in collection of €7 billion necessary to carry out these social policies, which will be collected between large companies and large assets. And the taxes to which they have the most will be increased and the taxes of SMEs, workers with incomes of less than 21,000 euros and self-employed people will be reduced; that is, we will have a fairer treatment to support the social state. The cuts you made in your last budgets are now conjured by these increases in 2023. This is what Pablo Milanés meant when he sang 'My people will be reborn from their ruin'. Spain not only suffered its cuts, there were also increases during its last budgets.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u119	You have to finish, Mr. Santiago.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u120	I'm done right now. Specifically, the number of millionaires in Spain was increased because of their cuts, because you have worked - especially the People's Party - like the anti-Robin Hood, cutting the poor to give it to the rich. And this is what's going to end these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u121	Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u122	Thank you, President. Spanish, this government has sold the soul of Spain to the enemy. Good afternoon, Mr. Marlaska, how evil you are leaving everything in your pact with those who have no homeland, no flag, no values. How bad they're leaving everything in their pact with the disloyals to Spain. [[Applauds]] This is a government that has given everything, above and beyond the interests of the Spaniards, above and beyond the unity of Spain to carry out its accounts. The last act of extreme disloyalty: surrender to eliminate the crime of sedition by camouflageing pardons to thugs. And this after, even, trampling the memory in their rows of ETA assassins to stay in power. You've got to be too treacherous to betray even your own. Your stand here today is the stand of the villains, because you are recidivists in high treason to the state for now favoring coupsmen who threaten to rise again. [[Applauds]] One cannot expect anything else from those who do not know loyalty to a flag, the only one that welcomes all Spaniards, and by which so many Spaniards have given their lives. They do not know the nobility of the earth that they tread, they do not know what attachment to the roots is. They do not know what loyalty and loyalty to belong to a great nation, Spain. [[Applauds]] Because you get up here, but you don't tell the reality of your accounts to the Spaniards. They talk about the welfare state, when they refer only to their own; they talk about great energy transformations, but they prevent them from warming their homes. They are put in blood Agenda 2030 and historical memory, the one that wants to rewrite ETA without dissolving or condemning its hundreds of murders. They do not tell you the real reason why you now repeal the decision of our Penal Code, when it is the price that Esquerra assigns to your budgets to pardon your thugs, right, Minister of the Interior? And the reality is that since you took over the interior reins, the Basque Country has already transferred the powers to prisons. The reality is that Interior has approached more than 360 floors In Basque prisons, it has granted about thirty third degrees and the Basque Government has also granted thirty third degrees to mass murderers. Because the reality is that the goal is to grant them semi-freedom and amnesty. Say it, don't be a coward, Mr Marlaska, tell the Spaniards that that was the contract, that was and is the transaction for a few more days in your chair. And we are in the debate on Volume VI, Section 16, Ministry of the Interior, State question, security of Spain and the Spanish. It increased by 11%. Is that, Mr Marlaska, your great commitment to the defence of our borders, your great commitment to the fight against terrorism, to the fight against drug trafficking, to the fight against crime, to strengthening with personnel and material means our State security forces and bodies, on all these issues, an 11% increase? What a shame! That's right, this government exponentially increases its share of immigration by 750 million euros, increases the share to what they call equality by more than 570 million euros, but Interior It has an increase of 11% basically intended for the energy transition of the General Administration of the State, to which you have devoted most of your speech. Therefore, the question is as follows. Our borders are being attacked not by hundreds, but by thousands of immigrants since you arrived in the government, and what have you done to protect the Spaniards from this invasion? For the Minister of the Interior has dedicated himself to changing concertinas for inverted penalties and leaves some areas of the fence of Ceuta and Melilla without any kind of protection, neither one thing nor the other. It has not increased the staff of the Civil Guard or the National Police on either of the two borders of Spain, of Europe, with Morocco; they have not reinforced them in protective material or in material means; they have vehicles for scrap and barracks and police stations that fall to pieces in many places of Spain, but you continue to suck from Agenda 2030 until we talk about security in our streets. They have neighborhoods in Catalonia - as is the case with La Florida, in L'Hospitalet de Llobregat - or areas that are already ghetto-some neighborhoods of Santa Coloma de Gramanet - that are very close to being fully controlled by the most radicalized Islam. And in Ceuta there is El Príncipe and in Melilla, La Cañada, for example, which are no zones in power, where a State has been established within the State, where Muslim immigrants have installed their customs, their norms, their culture; where the police cannot enter, minister. [[It shows two press headlines, who say: 'Wounded several national police officers after being stoned in the Prince's neighborhood'. 'A Civil Guard car stoned in La Cañada']] Barrios where the police and the Civil Guard are stoned, because the goal is to install Islamic law, Shariah. And you, meanwhile, your government, you continue to suck Agenda 2030, open-door policies and multiculturalism. [[Applauds]] And if we're talking about prison institutions, there's nothing about increasing investment to give their officials more material; nothing new in their security. And meanwhile, they keep waiting for you to be able to push him that you promised them, to make them agents of authority. And here, in addition to the fall of Agenda 2030, fall of political criteria in the granting of third degrees and transfers of terrorists to the Basque Country. In short, we are faced with budgets that are the budgets of the high treason of the Government, the budgets of ideological corruption, of the submission to blackmail and of political concessions in a question of unquestionable relevance such as public security, where gender ideology, climate phobia, the promotion of mass immigration, uncontrolled and that only causes chaos have more weight than the security of the Spaniards; when what the Spaniards need is more equality, yes, among the Spaniards, who see, for example, how depending on where they live they have more or less quality in education or health, or who may or may not speak in Spanish, which is the official language of the State. What the Spaniards need is more security and defense, yes, on our streets and our borders. What the Spaniards need are not pacts with separatist phylotterrorists and couplists, but more unity of Spain, minister, and less Agenda 2030, less murderous and poisonous snakes, less multiculturalism and more identity...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u123	Mrs. Lopez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u124	And more Spain, more Agenda Spain. For Spain and for the Spaniards. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u125	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u126	Ladies and gentlemen of the right, look at how difficult it is for you to make interventions here, because coming now and making a temporary space trip since the 1970s, gentlemen of VOX, and to an unreal Spain that you, gentlemen of the PP, have fabric, the truth, and it makes it difficult today to make a serious, coherent, sensible budget debate, which I believe is what the citizens are asking of us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Mrs Vázquez, I only ask you to bring evidence from everything you have said here, to try to make a political speech not thinking for a tweet, to try to make a serious and sensible political speech, as I think it is your party, or at least it was your party, especially on security issues. I make two preliminaries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: if anyone pulled troops from Navarre, the Basque Country and Catalonia, it was you, cutting 13,000 troops in your seven years of government. [[applause]] Man!, come here to talk about rapprochement of prisoners - I return to real Spain, to today's, to November 2022 - when you approached 803 prisoners with ETA killing; when in 98 and 99 you put 311 terrorists on the street; when, in addition, you allowed 300 terrorists to return from abroad to our country... Therefore, I ask you a little more prudence when you talk about some issues in this rostrum. I don't know who you stand for, I don't know; I think you stand for a Spain that doesn't exist, you stand for those who have the most, but, above all, those who don't stand for, right-wing ladies and gentlemen, PP, VOX and Citizens, it's the men and women of the state's security forces and bodies. Nor do they defend prison officials, because if this budget benefits someone, it is theirs. And if this budget benefits someone it is the millions of Spaniards and Spaniards who today live in a safer country and who today can exercise their rights and freedoms in a much safer space. Today the focus of the debate is very simple, and it is how much more the Ministry of the Interior has invested for four years, when the debate with you was how much more the Ministry of the Interior cut in seven years. [[Applauds]] That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, between the budget of a social and progressive government, such as this, which bets on security as a more public service, a service such as health, education, pensions and dependency. Because security, ladies and gentlemen, is a public good that we all have the right to benefit from; what is not security is an investment in private security so that only those who have the most can enjoy it. [[The lady]] It is four years now, it is four budgets that this Government is going to carry out. Over the past four years, these four budget years have raised salaries, increased staff, increased infrastructure and improved equipment. What I want to make clear today, ladies and gentlemen of the right, is what you are going to vote against, what you are going to say not with your vote, because I think it is interesting that the Spanish and Spanish know and the workers of the Ministry of the Interior know what you say today that they do not. They will say that they will not recover 13,000 troops from State security forces and bodies. You destroy five police stations a day, this government has recovered nine police stations a day. You are going to say that you will not continue to increase the salary of state security forces and bodies by 38% more since June 2018. Tell me which worker in this country has had a 38% increase in his salary. They will say no to an increase of 11 million euros in investments in vehicles, infrastructure and equipment for the National Police. They are going to say no to an increase of 31.8 million for Civil Guard vehicles, equipment and maritime surveillance. They're going to say no to an upgrade to the Asylum and Refugee Office. They will say no to a 19.5 % increase in infrastructure investment. They're going to say no to a 5% increase to expand the Traffic Group by 114 staff. They will say that they will not consolidate the agreement between the University of Salamanca and the Ministry of the Interior. They're going to say no to the start-up of the Penitentiary Studies Center. They will say that they will not provide EUR 11 million for training in digital skills of agents of the state security forces and bodies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, less evil that you do not rule, because with friends like that, why do the forces and bodies of State Security want to have more enemies! [[Applauds]] I will summarise this: the reality of your proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the right, is that they refuse to continue to improve the wages of the security forces and bodies; they refuse to continue to increase staffing; they refuse to continue to improve infrastructure; they refuse to have better training for our agents; they refuse to improve the Asylum and Refugee Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude now, and I just want to ask you a few questions about the degree of commitment you have, not only to the forces and security forces of the State, but also to our country, by approving or helping to approve this budget. The first question is whether Spain is a safe country; and yes, Spain is a safe country. The second question I want to ask you is whether there are now more staff in the Ministry of the Interior than when the People's Party ruled; the answer is yes. The next question I want to ask you is whether there is now better pay than when the People's Party ruled; and the answer is yes. And the last question I want to ask you is whether there is now more investment in infrastructure, in material, in vehicles, in bulletproof vests, etc., than when the People's Party ruled; and the answer is yes. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the right, let them not shake their legs today; let them, for once, be courageous in this House; let them stop supporting the state security forces and bodies alone, with their patriotic speech, and let them support budgets which they do only favour, in truth, with accounts and with money, the workers of the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. Let us move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the debate in Section 26, Ministry of Health. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to defend section 26 of the draft State General Budgets Act for the year 2023 on the Ministry of Health. I want to start by pointing out that the budgets of the government, of President Sánchez, in the field of health... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u129	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u130	Thank you, President. The budgets reinforce the achievements made in the fight against the pandemic and meet the challenges of the present and the future in order to continue building a health of the future. I expressed this in these terms in my recent appearance before the Health Committee of this House. And, in order to achieve these objectives, he called for the support of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, these are budgets that our country needs, a country that is moving forward despite the difficulties of the times in which we live. We have a clear strategy for where we are going, with an unprecedented budgetary effort to strengthen our National Health System and, therefore, our welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the fundamental pillars of the welfare state is health. And talking about health means talking about health, and talking about health is, in the end, doing it about life. Hence the importance for this people's government, of improving the lives of each and every one of the people. This budget responds well to two questions. First, how we are dealing with current critical situations and how we are preparing our National Health System to deal with possible new situations. With these budgets we continue with the actions of this Government to reform, recover, advance and protect our citizens through the expansion and strengthening of the capacities of our health system. All: care, diagnosis, innovation, access to new medicines, professional development, prevention, health intelligence and resilience. Ladies and gentlemen, this is therefore a budget which is perfectly aligned with this objective which I have just mentioned. Turning already to the figures in section 26, I would like to highlight the commitment that these accounts consolidate the one already initiated by the Government of Spain - and also previous years - with an unprecedented investment, setting up a budget with a much higher budget than the average during the previous decade. This is because this Government has the vocation to strengthen the National Health System, consolidating actions that focus on equity in access and quality of care, regardless of where it resides. Ladies and gentlemen, the consolidated global budget for 2023, including the European funds, amounts to EUR 2746 million, an increase of 7.8% over 2022. The total budget of the department - that is, European funds plus autonomous bodies, ONT and AEMPS - without consolidation, that is, with internal transfers, amounts to 3102 million euros, assuming 6.5% more than in 2022. I am going to report on this budget forecast by management centres. With regard to care capacity and the Directorate-General for Public Health, I would like to highlight the Government's commitment to primary care. As you know, we have approved the Primary and Community Care Action Plan for the period 2022-2023, and this plan commits both the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities through their respective regional comprehensive plans to have a final budget for its effective implementation. Therefore, during the year 2023 the investment made in the year 2022, linked to this primary care plan, will increase somewhat more than twice. Thus, in the case of this Directorate-General for Public Health, in addition to maintaining the provision of 172 million euros of transfer to the Autonomous Communities and INGESA for primary, an additional 434 million is added, also for primary, in Chapter 7, for the improvement of infrastructures and equipment, such as health centres, clinics, conventional radiology rooms, dental or physiotherapy rooms, among others. This helps to improve the diagnostic and resolutive capacity of primary care, brings services closer, avoids displacement and provides a closer, faster and therefore more efficient response for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important investment, an investment of the present, but above all of the future, which will contribute to improving, together with the Autonomous Communities, primary care as a backbone of the National Health System. Secondly, I would like to emphasise the purchase of vaccines against COVID-19, with a budget of EUR 1316 million, in order to maintain protection for the most vulnerable people, with doses of vaccines adapted to variants and, on the other hand, to continue our firm reinforcement and our commitment to promote the plan of universal access to a solidary action of vaccines to other countries. I would also like to refer to another of the main contributions or new developments in these accounts, which is the EUR 50 million budget for the promotion of the Degree in Medicine. Since 2018, we have been making an important effort to increase specialized health training places, thus compensating for the prolonged decline in the supply of places between 2010 and 2017, which caused many of them to be lost, as in the case of the family medicine mir, which lost 1196 new specialists in this period from 2010 to 2017. That is why, since 2018, we have increased ESF places by 40% to the point that in the last calls the places offered exceed those who have graduated from medical schools. Hence our commitment to increase the places of the public faculties of Medicine with funding to adapt the places offered, as suggested by the Study of Offer-Necessity of Medical Specialists 2021-2035. I would also like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen, that these budgets continue to respond to the mental health needs of our people. As you know, in addition to updating the Mental Health Strategy, which had not been updated for twelve years, we approved, from co-government and unity, a mental health action plan for the period 2022-2024, and to continue it in the year 2023 we will increase its endowment, exceeding 43 million euros. This budget will allocate 3.3 million to consolidate line 024, attention to suicidal behaviour, which, as you know, has only served more than 68,400 calls in five months, of which 2660 were due to 112 and 1809 were active suicide interventions or at imminent risk of suicide. Therefore, you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that more than figures are made, realities that show the relevance of this resource to all people. On the other hand, and in a complementary way, it is also necessary for autonomous health services to strengthen mental care at all levels, for which, in this budget for the year 2023, transfers to mental health amounting to 40 million euros are envisaged to our autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Health is also going to allocate EUR 12.4 million to this budget through European funds to strengthen preventive capacity and health promotion. Of these, 6.4 million will go to the FEMP for the creation or rehabilitation of healthy environments, so that the total amount for the period 2021-2023 will exceed 18 million euros for the FEMP for this objective, and the rest, another 6 million euros, will go as a transfer to autonomous communities for something as important as the prevention of cancer through population screening of colon and cervix. Thus, the amount of transfers to the autonomous communities in this concept will rise in the period 2021-2023 to 16 million euros. On the other hand, and also in relation to health prevention and promotion, activities as important as those related to rare diseases and to the prevention and control of AIDS and other STIs remain budgeted. Thus, in these budgets, we allocate EUR 2.8 million for the Strategy against Rare and Neurodegenerative Diseases, including ALS, which will be transferred directly to the Autonomous Communities. In addition, EUR 2 million is earmarked for AIDS and other STI-related grants. Alongside this, I think it is important to stress how through these budgets we are preparing our National Health System to deal with new critical situations in the future. We do this through the European funds, allocating an investment of 7.4 million euros, of which 3.2 million will go to the technological equipment of the State Agency for Public Health and 4.2 million to the surveillance network in public health. This investment is in addition to the more than 29 million we have allocated in the years 2021 and 2022. Also, within the health intelligence capacity, I would like to refer, within the General Secretariat of Digital Health, to the Government's commitment to digital health transformation as one of the tools that will make a decisive contribution to reducing the asymmetric development of health information systems throughout the country and will facilitate the enhancement of equity, cohesion and accessibility in the National Health System. Furthermore, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has highlighted the importance of data for decision-making and the protection of citizens' health, as evidenced by the success of vaccine development or the sequencing of successive variants of the virus. In addition, these data, through the national and later European health data area, have the capacity to offer new and better options for the prevention and health care of the National Health System as a whole through research and innovation. That is why we are going to allocate an investment of more than EUR 400 million in 2023 for this matter. The General Secretariat of Digital Health will count on almost 224.7 million euros, to which we must add 160 million euros for the digital transformation of primary care, financed in this case by the Secretariat of State of Public Service. This is a very important investment, ladies and gentlemen, which is intended to give continuity to the investment that we have already started in the general budgets for 2022, with EUR 70 million earmarked for this plan for the digital transformation of primary and Community care through the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, and on the other hand we also add, we also add 65 million more for the development of the health data area from the budget of SEDIA, which will be integrated into the future European Health Data Area, whose regulation is under analysis in the European Parliament and we hope that it can be closed during our next European Presidency in the six months of 2023. I also think it is relevant to comment, ladies and gentlemen, on the Digital Personalised Care Plan, with a budget of around EUR 100 million. As far as the Directorate General of Cartera is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to drive decisively the personalized medicine of precision. Thus, as a novelty, we include 100 million euros for the implementation of the very important genomic portfolio -. These are also transfers to the autonomous communities, ladies and gentlemen, which help to form the catalogue of benefits by guaranteeing access and care to all those who need it. This will allow, on the one hand, the implementation of new technologies and equipment for the extension of the use of biomarkers in public health facilities, which allow an adaptation of treatments by improving the selection and dosage of medicines in diseases such as cancer. The aim is to improve care while increasing equity in access throughout the national territory. On the other hand, it will also enable the development of the information system for genomic data analysis, which will revert to new knowledge to further advance. Ladies and gentlemen, another development that I want to share with you on the budget and which enhances equity is the improvement of healthcare for patients with rare diseases, including ALS. As you know, these complex diseases represent one of the most important challenges of care diagnoses in our health system. Thus, the budget envisaged the amount of €70 million to, among other actions, serve as a lever to the autonomous communities for the implementation of new neonatal screenings included in the portfolio of services of the National Health System. Also, the implementation of the latest updates of the orthoprosthetic supply catalog, such as the eye reader, or other communication systems for patients with severe neuromotor disorders or for the improvement of infrastructure and acquisition of equipment in the CSURs. We also allocate €37.4 million to cohesion funds to compensate precisely for the costs of the CSURs, which are, as you know, a paradigm of the cohesion of the health system, pooling resources and experiences and increasing patient safety and quality of care. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the oral health programme. We have added another EUR 44 million for the expansion of the common portfolio, as has been done in the budgets of this year 2022, which are included in the Primary Care Action Plan. And as far as INVEST is concerned, during the years 2021 and 2022, INVEST has concentrated the greatest resources with European funds, with almost 800 million euros, and many of the teams that make up this plan are already installed in the autonomous communities, are already in operation, of course at the service of the patients or the same, improving the diagnostic and therapeutic capacity of the National Health System and, therefore, the improvement of people's lives. I would like to point out that this budget of 2023 will have a budget of 200 000 euros to verify the correct implementation of all these equipment distributed in public hospitals throughout the Spanish geography, thus helping to narrow the gap between territories in access to high technology. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I refer in this section to the Collaborative Plan on the Implantation of Protontherapy, a public implantation for the most innovative treatments against cancer... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u131	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u132	... and which includes for the year 2023 an allocation of 24.3 million euros to continue the development of this plan. This plan, as you know, originates from an agreement signed by the Ministry with the Amancio Ortega Foundation, which will allow the supply or deployment of ten proton therapy teams in the National Health System in seven autonomous communities compared to none that is at present, and this will place us in important leadership at European level. I now turn to the Directorate-General for Vocational Training, which has EUR 6.5 million for 2023, to be added 5.5 million from European funds. This allocation will allow the organisation of the access tests to the FASE, which will face the largest offer for the year 2023, with 11,171 seats. I am finalizing, ladies and gentlemen, this intervention. I shall now refer to the allocation for the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products, which will have a budget of 63,7 million euros. It represents an increase of 15% over the year 2022, adding the European funds transferred by increasing its budget by 8.4 million. With regard to the National Organization of Transplants, the budget for the year 2023 will be EUR 6.7 million to continue to boost the organ transplant donation activity, which Spain contributed in 2021 22% of all donated organs in the European Union and 5% worldwide. They know that Spain is a leader in this matter, and the intention in investment is for it to remain so. As far as INGESA is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, he has transferred to you that your budget amounts to EUR 321 million. Of these, 37.7 million will go to real investments, 28 million to the University Hospital of Melilla, 1.5 million to primary care in Ceuta and Melilla and 1.3 million to the construction of the new building of the National Dosimetry Centre. Finally, I refer to the Government delegation for the National Drug Plan, which will count in the year 2023 with 15.7 million euros, which represent an increase of more than half a million. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. The items included in this budget section of the Ministry of Health reflect the Government's strong commitment to strengthening the National Health System as an essential pillar of our welfare State and thus continue to promote equity and social justice throughout the country. He therefore requested the support and approval of this House of the Draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2023. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. We now turn to the defence of amendments. Firstly, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u134	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Minister. The health budget is the paradigm of what the Spanish Government is. The Government's vetoes of the Citizens' amendments I am going to narrate to you perfectly define the morals that govern it. Let us see what are the main amendments - the main ones, because they have vetoed several - which the Government has decided to veto in the area of health. The first veto prevents discussion of the National Plan for the Prevention of Suicide. Citizens propose a plan to prevent suicidal behaviour, and the Government says it is not interested. We asked for 100 million. They will spend EUR 19 billion on a linear increase in pensions that make 40% of the state budget go to pensions and the total expenditure on pensions will be EUR 210 billion... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u135	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u136	... but there is not 100 million for the main cause of death of young Spaniards between the ages of fifteen and twenty-nine The Spanish project of this government can be summed up in one sentence: it is not a country for young people. Suicide today kills eleven Spaniards a day, many of them, as I say, young people, but the government vetoes the main measure brought to these general state budgets to combat it. Suicide is the leading cause of deathdifferent to diseases in Spain. Can you imagine not allocating anything in the general state budgets to road safety in order to avoid traffic accidents? Or are you imagining not going to do anything to combat macho violence? In Spain in 2020, 3941 people died of suicide, 2930 men and 1011 women. In Spain, there were 298 homicides in 2020. Of these 298, 43 were due to male violence, i.e. more than twice as many deaths due to suicide in Spain than the sum of all homicides and traffic accidents. Why do they veto the only measure that proposes a specific heading to combat suicide? Is it because they're men most of the people who commit suicide? Is it because they're young? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u137	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u138	Or is it because the social veto of silence surrounding suicide is shared by the government? Hey, don't look like that, don't see it. Shame would give me to veto help to fight suicide. Another amendment that has been vetoed is the one that ensures access to a psychologist by Spanish families. It is the one we have called a welfare check that is related to the above, because it is related to mental health. Today, those who ask for an appointment in a psychologist in the National Health System look with despair at how they give it to months seen. When it comes to matters related to mental health, this is de facto turning psychological care into something that will have the one who can pay for it. We wanted EUR 250 million for this cheque. Mental health cannot be a luxury item, and I believe that this government is not taking this matter seriously. It gives us the feeling that the biggest spending on mental health is advertising that the Government is concerned about mental health. And I tell you why, because with 40 million euros, with 100 million euros in three years, that's what they announced they're planning to allocate, it only gets them for some ads in the newspaper; 40 million euros is less than what was used to rescue Plus Ultra, a fact that I think describes well what this government is. It is true that this veto is consistent with the veto of the National Plan for the Prevention of Suicide, because it is consistent that those who do not believe in investment in mental health veto all that related to investments in mental health. By the way, speaking of mental health, there are some effects that produce that some issues never change. Already, even Iberia warns of the unreasonability of the maintenance of the mandatory mask in public transport; maintenance that no one understands already and that I have heard they say in the government that it will persist until March by the flu. Minister, there's flu every year. Is it going to be mandatory every year at the time of flu mask in public transport? Do you realize that you are burdened with the credibility of the government, which I have told you many times? Are we going to have to wait for the municipal campaigns in Las Palmas to remove the mask on the plane? Because maybe what they do is remind you of the months that have taken the mandatory mask without being necessary. I believe that the use of the Ministry of Health as an electoral platform says a lot about the moral waste of Pedro Sánchez, taking advantage of the focus that on this ministry has put the misfortune of the pandemic; and it strikes to say, Mrs.Darias, that I wish you the best and you know it and that I do not like to have to tell you this, but I do not think it is good for the ministry to go so far. The last veto I'm going to talk to you about today is the government veto that affects the patients with ALS. In this case, it is especially bloody because we have encountered two vetoes. First, they have vetoed the amendment that we propose in these general state budgets, which provides 100 million euros to help patients with ALS; not 70 million euros for all rare diseases in which ALS is included, not 100 million euros for patients with ALS. But it is not enough for them to veto this measure, but to add to a very serious previous argument, and it was explained, the bloody veto that blocks the law that we get in Citizens that will be processed in this House and that has been paralysed by the Bureau, by orders of the Government, for more than six months. They have blocked up to twenty times the processing of this law, passed in this House unanimously, at the initiative of Citizens. Why did they approve of it? Do you realize that the amounts we're talking about are small, but that they get big changes in the patients with ALS and their family nuclei? Do you think it is morally acceptable to play with the expectations and hopes of those who celebrated the processing of this law and who see its end coming inexorably, without the Government putting in place measures to help them endure the bad fortune that this disease entails? They block this law, but at the same time they deal urgently with the reform of the crime of sedition and embezzlement. What a graphic this is! If I had to choose the paradigm of how to govern you, I would choose these facts. You are a government capable of changing the law by emergency means to eliminate the crime of sedition, while blocking more than six months the law to help ALS patients. Those are you, the ones who turn their backs on the sick people of ELA. How sad! Too bad! People's government! Yes, of the people who delinquent, of the people who mislead, the government of the bad people. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u140	Thank you, President. Since this House in July adopted the Junta motion for a resolution to speed up the incorporation of metastatic breast cancer treatments already authorised in the European Union, many things have happened. The most important: two of the ten drugs approved by the European Union are already available to patients with metastatic breast cancer. But there is a very clear need to increase the budget allocated in order to be able to cope with the purchase of the other treatments. That is why we are submitting an amendment to the general state budgets of 2023, an amendment which has been vetoed by your Government, Minister. We ask them to reconsider, we ask them to trade. We are open to dealing with this amendment, if you accept it, to make it possible for patients with metastatic cancer to have access to more treatments, because then comes the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, here in Parliament, to say that in the Spanish State, cancer patients do not have to be mortgaged to access treatments. Of course, the cancer patients who have had to mortgage their properties or those of their family members, those who have applied for credits or those who have launched crowdfunding initiatives in order to be able to pay for treatments that are already in public health in many countries of the European Union, but not in Spain, have already answered him at the time last October. Spain is the number 13 country in the European Union in the incorporation of authorised treatments into the health system with an average waiting of 400 days; and, if we talk about cancer, it is a problem that affects everyone. One in two men, one in three women, is going to have cancer. Specialists in this area ask that the ministry put more staff to negotiate agreements with laboratories, because it is literally vital to speed up negotiations. And there is another problem, the lack of transparency in the decision criteria and throughout the validation chain until the incorporation of the treatment to know exactly where the negotiation of a drug is in order to see where the gap is. Nor is there transparency in what is paid for medicines. Prices are secret, at the request of the laboratories. Of course, laboratories do not want to know at what price they have sold in one or another country, but I think we will all agree that the investment of public money cannot be opaque. Nor is there transparency when it comes to what it takes for pharmaceuticals to develop treatments. What's the cost? What is the profit margin to ensure return on investment, fundamental to establishing a fair price that prevents a few from getting rich at the expense of everyone's health? There is a European initiative in this direction and we wonder what the Spanish Government is doing to get that fair price, to know what that fair price should be. Finally, I do not want to miss the opportunity to ask once again, as they have just done from the rostrum, that the processing of the proposed law for the dignified lives of people with ALS be activated. As I said in your consideration in this House in March, it is a disease that does not waste time, steals it. Since March 700 new cases have been diagnosed; since March there has been a similar number of deaths from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u142	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with budgets that are wet, do not respond to the general interest of Spain as a whole or to the health interest of our country; budgets that do not respond to the requests of the autonomous communities, health professionals or patients; budgets that are born on false forecasts, as national and international bodies assure, and that are also used as a currency of exchange with the independenceists to keep Mr Sánchez in Moncloa. I wonder if they really care about the health of this country. Minister, I'm telling you no. Their budgets do not respond to a state problem that has health, such as the lack of specialist doctors, mainly in family and community, and in some other specialty, scarcity that is also occurring in nursing. A deficit that they know perfectly well by the autonomous communities, it is also transferred by professional corporations or, even, by their own reports that the Ministry of Health has commissioned to draw up. And what are the extraordinary measures? Unknown. They are not included in these budgets. In addition, the Government has not taken into account budget allocations to develop a human resources plan as approved by the Reconstruction Commission more than two years ago, nor has it taken into account the resolution adopted by this House in the debate on the state of the nation on the shortage of family and community doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that primary care is a state problem, all the autonomous communities suffer it and the solution is 173 million for the strategic framework in these budgets compared to 1088 of 2021, which never went to primary care; apparently they were for vaccines. They respond to the requests of the Autonomous Communities, which request an extraordinary plenary of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, which addresses measures to address the alarming deficit of primary care professionals. In the next call for the training of medical specialists, 12,251 candidates have been admitted to 8550 places and more than 3,700 candidates will remain without a place. What solution will be given to the need for specialist doctors? This is your responsibility, Minister, to make more training places available to the autonomous communities with a clear measure, accrediting more teaching units, and this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health alone. [[Applauds]] Don't blame anyone who doesn't have it, stop looking the other way and stop being a candidate to bet on solutions. A lot of doctors want to do MIR and they can't. It calls upon the Autonomous Communities, as they have asked. Surprisingly it cannot be to organize an International Conference of Primary and Community Care as a solution, asking the autonomous communities to attend the conference to expose their good practices. Won't that be a joke, Minister? Or do you perhaps intend to turn this conference into an act of self-pumping in the face of your election campaign? It is not time to use the Ministry of Health as an electoral springboard, as we are seeing in many acts, especially in the Canary Islands. The situation that Spanish health is experiencing requires having in front of a minister who is 100 per cent, who talks to the real autonomous communities, who carries out measures not only to address primary care but also to draw up a human resources plan, to address the endless waiting lists - more than 700,000 people waiting - the excess mortality, accessibility and equity in relation to therapeutic innovations, the audit of the COVID-19 pandemic, the participation of patients in decision-making or the interoperability of clinical history - we could talk a lot about the interoperability of clinical history - all of which require clear allocations in budgets that, of course, are not there; or items that support electrodependent patients who, due to the increase in light, cannot bear the expense. We are calling for specific items for these vulnerable people who have not taken into account. In this connection, the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled amendments which have not been taken into consideration, some of which have even been vetoed, such as the Agency for Public Health and Quality of Care, that relating to primary care or therapeutic innovations - these have been vetoed directly -. Ladies and gentlemen, they are amendments on issues of concern to healthcare professionals, patients and citizens as a whole. See if society is concerned that even the last barometer of the CIS - which usually sweetens everything that is wrong with the government - places health as the third most important problem of the Spanish, which makes us think that it could even be the first or the second. Come on, even Tezanos makes them an amendment to the whole. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets do not respond to the real problems, some very urgent, that the National Health System has. In addition, we have a minister on the run, who is going to give everything for her candidacy. And who's going to take care of the sanity, Mrs. Darias? With you will be five ministers in five years in the Ministry of Health, which demonstrates continuity and zero stability. Go now, because these budgets do not matter to you, nor do I see that it matters to you who will be supported at the expense of the repeal of the sedition crime, the rapprochement of the prisoners of ETA and more taxes on the Spaniards. And don't go alone, take Mr Sánchez, because if he's been able to disarm Spain to stay in Moncloa a little longer we don't know what he'll be able to do in the coming months. Let the Spaniards decide and really leave now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Velasco. Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, the truth is that every time we hear you talk about the health budget, and in general to any member of the government about your budget line, what they tell us is to increase spending. They always tell us they're going to spend more. The problem is if you are being efficient, if what you are spending is serving for something, because, look, the left is tired of saying that the right comes to charge public health, but it is a shame that the data is so clumsy against you and have nothing to do with the populism that the government does and with those populical expressions that then do not support themselves. I'll give you an example: Navarra. When we left the government in 2015, we were told that we were carrying public health and that waiting lists were a catastrophe. That was said by his party, the Socialist Party; it was said by those who are ruling today. Well, I'll give you the numbers. Look, in the first consultation, when we left the government in May 2015, the average waiting list was in 47 days, today is 67; that is, 20 more days. Not only have they done nothing, but they have achieved a brutal worsening for the citizens of Navarre. The surgical waiting list was in 66 days, today in 82; you have increased it in 16 days. Is this your way of defending public health? Do you consider, Minister, that this is how public health is protected? He asked you, do you have anything to tell the Government of Navarre about this data or do you only support it when health workers complain in the Community of Madrid? I ask you whether you are the minister of all the Spanish or just the minister of the socialist governments, because this fact seems very important to me. The biggest deterioration that has occurred in Navarre in public health has occurred with a socialist government, you just have to listen to the professionals: there is organizational chaos, waiting lists go to worse, etc. We have been the reference community throughout Spain in terms of health for decades, until you have come, that we have lowered positions and we do not know where we are going to get to. They are now requesting ten-minute consultations in primary care. I agree. Can you give me the example of a socialist community where consultations in primary care last ten minutes? I'm just saying for the record. Of course, in Navarra people get very happy if they pick up the phone, not if they take ten minutes. So, is there any community in all of Spain, ruled by the Socialist Party, where this is so? Because, of course, the slogan looks very nice, the problem is that then, translated into reality, the distance is enormous. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u145	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u146	Look, I'm from the rural area of Navarre, and before, when we went to the doctor in rural care, they gave us date for the same day. We're happy today if we go to the room. Of course, as we go with a flu, the day we have to go we've passed. This is the reality of healing where you are ruling. So, all the populism that they do with empty speeches, with figures that endure everything, with papers that do not stop accumulating, strikes against the reality of the data, which is more clumsier than the populism that you try to impregnate. Primary care. In primary care we have the time of care and, on the other hand, we have the topic of professionals. With the topic of professionals we can do two things. There is a clear deficit of professionals in primary care. We can make more professionals by improving the MIR, improving the places offered at the university, or retaining the talent. Because we have to realize that when we talk about healthcare professionals we often talk about talent and that, therefore, the conditions of recruitment cannot be exactly the same as those in other areas. That's something we have to work from the Ministry of Health with the autonomous communities to make this type of recruitment more flexible and it's a topic where we can't waste any more time, because a lot of health talent is coming out of Spain and we need it here. On the other hand, Minister, the whole pandemic has been ruled by one word: arbitrariness. Arbitrariness is what has guided all the Government's decisions during the pandemic, and we are still installed there. There is not a single Spanish, not a single Spanish, who understands that today we have to keep putting our masks on public transport. No one understands! I'll give you an example. Imagine we're going to a concert at the WiZink Center, we're 14,000 people, and then we take a taxi. Well, we have to put on the masks. Hey, can you tell me what expert in the Ministry of Health advises you this? Because it's totally amazing that this is a reality. I mean, we're going to a concert where we're 16,000 people, we're all quietly living together without masks, and then we get 30 on an urban bus and we have to put them on. Of course, people have suffered a lot in the pandemic, they have had to endure a lot of decisions, and all they ask for is coherence; all they ask is coherence because, if not, we come to arbitrariness, and that is what the ministry is doing. Therefore, there is no reason why masks should continue to be used in public transport. I ask you, please, to reverse that decision. Besides, you're a lot more of a role than an action. It's obvious. You come here with an action plan in mental health. I do not know how many times we have unanimously adopted the fight against obesity in this House. I have forgotten the times when something has come out unanimously. So what? What's the reality of that? What is the ministry doing to fight obesity? What are you really doing, a real, economically gifted proposal, worked with professionals, for mental health? It's all on paper, on smoke, on artifice! It's the only thing they know how to do, slogans! But then the health reality is completely different, and there are realities that we have to address. I end up with two things that seem important to me. One, access to the medicine. We need to keep working to make access to the drug better. And another issue that I also think is very relevant is that of data. We need to continue to improve access to data, because access to data means faster research and everything we improve on research we gain in health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u148	Good afternoon. I'm surprised that PP and Citizens aren't here asking for an increase in taxes to get enough funding and get that health service they're asking for so much. It's amazing. This coalition government has increased health funding and this is demonstrated by these budgets, and we will support them. It is the right line, although in health we need more investment, at least in certain aspects of the National Health System, and of course we need other legislation. Why is public health at risk? The system is in danger simply because - everyone knows - the People's Party. And it's not a management problem, it's the PP's plan to eliminate the most important public service we have, which is health. And it has used two fronts since 1997. A first front has been not to finance it, to gradually deteriorate and to have money to look for insurance. The second front, what was it? Legislation to allow privatization of health management, Law 15/1997. There, in private management, they do invest. And not only do they invest, but there are no cuts for the beneficiaries of the policies of the People's Party to continue to have benefits. And on this National Health System, weakened by so many years of PP government, there has been a pandemic that has been devastating and that has highlighted the need to strengthen the National Health System with policies that protect it and with sufficient funding, so we need more investment. But it's not just a matter of how much money, but what that money is dedicated to. One example is the Community of Madrid. Madrid is the community that invests least in health care and the one that has left primary care the most. Ayuso does not charge taxes to his rich friends, so that they feel free - and so much that they feel free! - but as a collection little money leaves the Madriders without public health. Such is the disaster that hundreds of thousands of people have manifested themselves to say to Ayuso: Ayuso, do not play with our public health. But, look, he's getting away with it. Look, he built the Zendal hospital instead of strengthening the health centers, as he had been told, by the pandemic: 150 million euros for a hospital that currently has little activity; no one has stopped it or asked for accounts. It closes outpatient emergencies for more than two and a half years, collapsing the hospitals; no one has stopped it. She tries to replace face-to-face consultations with phone calls, as if that were not to mislead patients; no one has stopped her. When he decides to open the emergency room, he has no staff and ends up insulting health professionals by saying they don't want to work. Here they have stopped it; the citizens of Madrid, with their health workers, have gone out to the streets and have demanded a quality public health. Let's hope they keep stopping her. We must legislate to prevent Mrs Ayuso's barbarities, and that is what I want to make clear here: we need good legislation. These budgets are good, but there are items that are not where they should be. There are 2906 million euros earmarked for MUFACE that enable the perpetuation and promotion of inequality in the National Health System. Two million people, between civil servants and family members, have funding that produces inequity, absolute inequity. And not only is it because of the issue of inequity, it is that funding is absolutely inefficient. Why? For the transfer of risks. Most people who are in services like MUFACE go to the public when they have some really important disease. That's risk transfer. That money should be in public health and leave officials in the National Health System. This should be known to the Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero; I know that it is not up to you, but it is a clearly sanitary problem, Mrs Montero does not want to know anything about this. [[The lady]] What about mental health? This year 27 million for the mental health plan and 16 million for infrastructure. It's positive, but insufficient. We know that without a mental health law this problem will not be addressed as it touches. Please release the mental health law. And Mr. Díaz isn't here, but I'm going to comment. He, who gives them so much that his game is not macho, a macho chascarillo, type VOX, seems even ugly to me. And, by the way, they ask, demand the rise of taxes to get those services that they so proclaim. We have a serious threat to primary care, which should be the axis of the health system. We are still looking for the 1089 million euros - I don't know if it was 1089 or 1086 - of the 2021 budgets for primary care. By the events of Madrid - and we only have to look at Madrid to see what can be a bad management - a state pact for primary care is being called for. Our parliamentary group sent a letter to the president signed by United We can, Esquerra, Bildu, Bloque Nacionalista Galego, Teruel Existe, Más País and the platform 'Save Primary Care' asking for a pact of state for primary care, pact that neither PP nor PSOE wanted to sign; it was the 16th of March of this year 2022. We believe that it is vital to push the government pact for primary care so that this problem is finally solved and primary care is shielded. There are initiatives that we think are good, such as, for example, the 100 million for the rationalization of the consumption of pharmaceutical products, which envisages a platform for sharing and promoting. I think that's a very good idea. But I want to tell the Minister that it is in our hands to save public health. Not everything is money, to legislate for health to stop being parasitized by private enterprise is essential to save it, and the law of equity should ensure that. If we endanger public health - and there is nothing more to look at in Madrid - the citizens will pass us the bill. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Medel. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u150	With all due respect, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A preview: I don't know how you, socialist ladies and gentlemen, dare to appoint Professor Ernesto Lluch after signing a pact with the heirs of his murderers. [[Applauds.-Protests]] What color was the ink they used? Ladies and gentlemen, we are in an unprecedented health crisis, within an unprecedented political crisis in which the Government itself is allied with the enemies of the nation. The government has already destroyed the sanity, and it has done so since the day it let in Wuhan's coronavirus. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no National Health System, it is an entelequia which, as it does not have, has no address, telephone or website. The definitive proof of this is that in this session we are discussing less than 10% of public health expenditure. The rest of the expenditure is freely arranged by the autonomous rates with the transfers made to them by the State and the IRPF section. In 2022, self-government spent 73 198 million on health care. However, we have a health expenditure of 40% lower than the eurozone's median. At the same time, the autonomous communities spend 40% on public debt. I repeat, health spending on autonomy, 73 198 million; amount we are discussing today including Muface,5933. There is no National Health System, Mrs Darias, there is an inter-autonomic system that lacks information about resources, about its professionals, about its functions, about its results; a system of ministates, all socialist ideas, and that has been immobilised for decades. Are you laughing? I'm right, fine. Health care, Minister, since we are in good shape, who has kept it? It has been maintained by health personnel and, in particular, doctors and their vocation. [[Applauds]] In this system, these staff - cynically asked to applaud on the balconies - earn 20% less than in 2008 and 40% have temporary contracts. Are you surprised that you are fleeing Spain when doctors are the worst paid in Europe, when the deaths of Spanish healthcare professionals have been the largest in the world and have found no reward? [[applause]] By the way, economic reward, which is how to do when you work well. Is it lawful to ask health professionals to trust a government that allowed them to protect themselves with garbage bags? No, no, Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the health situation is critical. And I tell you one thing: the main source of contempt and loss of legitimacy are waiting lists, a chronic disease aggravated by the epidemic. 2.35 million surgeries are still pending; we have a shameful surgical waiting list record with 706 000 patients and 4-month median waiting; patient waiting list for specialist, 4-month median waiting. And what do you do? What do you budget to put an end to temporality? Nothing. With inequity in access? Nothing. With the delay in approving new drugs? Almost nothing. It is an insult that the Sánchez government has decided to increase its budget less than that of the lady who defends pederasty. It's a shame. [[Applauds]] It is a disgrace that the cinema grants are 158 million and the Strategic Framework for Primary Care is 179 million. Horrible television, 691 million; primary assistance in total, just under 500 million. These budgets do not solve the urgent problems of our health. I have spent decades hearing from the consultation, from the plant, the buzz, the runrun of these experts - all, always the same, always on the left - talking about the problems like surrounding a wall that they would like to make fall on the basis of conferences. Not anymore. However, they said interesting things. For example: what should we do now according to our point of view? To launch three emergency plans to put an end to waiting lists by relying on private health - yes, Mrs Medel - to put an end to the temporary situation, to increase the salaries of health workers - which deserve this increase more than other public employees, yes, I say, and more than all of us, by the way - to increase public expenditure per capita, which is 40% lower than in the eurozone, and to stop identifying public service with public management. A strong ministry, Minister, as we propose, should have a strong voice in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council; a strong voice taking advantage of the weight of the money transfers made to the autonomous communities. At the same time, the Cohesion Fund should be provided with a sufficient fund for specific policies. None of that gives us these budgets. They are budgets based on tirites bought in a Chinese - as if not - by a government that only thinks about surviving and is indifferent to the health of the Spaniards, at least that's what I think. The inter-autonomic health system, Minister, is a framework that prevents us from having in Spain a real National Health System that must leave behind other spoiled formulas from a left-wing era that has passed. Budget Of the ruin that are not only the symptom of the failure of a system, they are the symptom of the failure of a government that does not believe in Spanish health because it has neither believed nor wants to believe in Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u151	Thank you, Mr Steegmann. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u152	Mr Steegmann, stop using the victims of ETA, because socialists, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, no one is going to teach us lessons in the struggle for freedom and in the fight against ETA; no one, Mr Steegmann. [[Applauds]] Welcome, Minister. Thank you for your hard work in favour of public health, but, after all you have heard here today, we are going to put a little serious and sensible. Mrs Velasco, did you know that waiting lists are the competence of the Autonomous Communities? Also from the Autonomous Communities of the People's Party. Did you know that the family specialty has increased by 36% since 2018? Do you know that what the Autonomous Communities of the People's Party have to do is offer all the places? Madam Junts spokesman, nine out of ten cancer medicines are funded from public funds and, of course, the Ministry of Health continues to work to ensure that all patients have access to all the medication necessary for their health, not as the People's Party did with the co-sponsor, who prevented patients from taking medicines necessary for their health at pharmacies for an exclusively economic reason. [[Applauds]] One of the most important political actions carried out by the Government of Pedro Sánchez is to continue to make progress in strengthening the public health of the present and in building the public health of the future. And it does so with facts, with forceful facts, as these health budgets make clear. Because the National Health System we know today is universal, public, free and accessible to all citizens and was born in 1986, under a socialist government, with the General Health Act. And, as Ernest Lluch said, of whom yesterday 22 years of his murder were fulfilled, socialism is to bring maximum freedom, maximum equality and maximum fraternity to the people living in society. Ladies and gentlemen, socialism means protection and it means strengthening public health as one of the pillars of the welfare state. This is a common sense, but, unfortunately, we must continue to remember it in the face of the certain danger of dismantling and deterioration represented by the right. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in the seven years of Rajoy's rule, you applied cuts that protected and led to exhaustion of public health, breaking down principles such as universality and equity. The health system, despite the exhaustion, gave the face to the worst pandemic in the last hundred years, which Spain fought with weakened health; weakened because the People's Party left us 30,000 less health professionals than we had a decade ago. It was something especially bloody in primary care, where between 2011 and 2018 1196 family medicine specialists were lost, Mrs Velasco. And you ruled, Mrs. Velasco. [[Applauds]] So we faced the pandemic, with the sacrifice of the health workers. The Government of Spain acted from the zero minute by helping people, strengthening public services and transferring unprecedented resources to autonomous communities and cities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is committed to public health, to patients and to professionals, because it is in our DNA. For this reason, the Government of Pedro Sánchez strengthens the capacities of the National Health System, has regained universality and has eliminated the co-sponsors implemented by the People's Party. In addition, it is working to stabilize more than 67 000 health professional places and to increase the number of specialized health training places annually. There are 3,000 more seats since President Pedro Sánchez arrived in the Moncloa. That's 40% more seats. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets allocate EUR 7049 million to cross-cutting health policies, EUR 2798 million more than in your last budget, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Specifically, as the Minister has said, the Ministry of Health's budget for 2023 is growing by 7.8% thanks to a consolidated budget of EUR 2746 million, because these budgets constitute an unprecedented investment, much higher than the average budget of the Ministry of Health of the previous decade, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. You know well, Mrs. Velasco, that you were in the ministry. As the minister has explained, budgets seek to reduce inequalities in health, for example, with items intended for primary care. The Government of Spain between 2022 and 2023 will contribute around 1 billion euros for primary care and because, despite being a responsibility of the autonomous communities, also of which the People's Party governs, the Government of Spain holds its shoulder, because it knows the importance of primary care as a backbone of the National Health System. And, look, the government does not drain the bundle, as Mrs Ayuso does, who is able to take professionals and families out to the streets in front of the dismantling of public health in Madrid to claim a right as basic as health is. Because it is neither casual nor novel for Madrid to be the autonomous community that spends less on primary care, but it is the region of Spain with the most resources. Well, it's the ideology of the right. [[Applauds]] By the way, what does your moderate leader, Mr. Feijoo, do in the face of this situation? I'm telling you, nothing. He doesn't say anything. And it is known that the one who is silent grants. Because, even if you don't get along very well with Mrs Ayuso, they share a model in terms of health, and someone like me tells you, who I think is very noticeable in my accent, that I come from Galicia, that I am a health worker and that I have seen live the health policies of the Xunta of Galicia. Believe me. Look, the socialist model is reflected in concrete improvements for people, such as line 024 of attention to suicidal behavior, which has answered 68,403 calls. Today, patients with ALS have been discussed. This Government has allocated nearly €73 million for rare and neurodegenerative diseases, including ALS. By the way, Mr. Díaz de Ciudadanos is not here. He has little to do with health debates. [[Applauds]] Citizens go and veto those 73 million euros with an amendment to the whole. In the ministry they are working with the working group of ELA, which has been in operation for months and, in addition, there are three ministries involved in the fight against ELA. The budget is more than just numbers, yes, but with the government of Pedro Sánchez those numbers translate...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u153	Mrs. Prieto, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u154	I'm done, Madam President. ... in large health policies that put the patient in the center, so that health is neither a luxury nor a business as some to my right claim. Because these figures will reverse the PP cuts that have done so much damage and continue to do to public health. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call for your vote in favour of these health budgets. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs Prieto. We continue with the debate in section 17, Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u156	Very good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I appear before this House to present to you the draft budgets of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda for the year 2023. I do so from the conviction that they are the most suitable to offer stability and confidence at times of enormous uncertainty; a stability that is incompatible with the policies of the save who might other governments practiced in their day, and a confidence that is achieved with expansive accounts that deepen the recovery and that offer a safety net to the middle and working class of this country so that no one will be released. Our goal is to alleviate suffering and not provoke it, persevering in the ecological and digital transformation of our economy. We are aware that we are not in possession of the absolute truth, so we have put our proposals to the attention of the various groups and accepted many of their amendments. Those who only listen to themselves will find it difficult to understand our willingness to dialogue and to agree. Negotiating budgets is a moral imperative. We will not give up any vote because what is at stake is the general interest, which is a greater good than we all owe. Unlike those who only seek to benefit the vast minority and support their privileges, this government is in no one's hands and only accountable to this Parliament. These are budgets that are consistent with our strategy. They are because the exceptional circumstances that we are experiencing as a result of the war that Russia has unleashed at the gates of Europe have not changed our road map. Moreover, we have been reaffirmed in the urgency of speeding up the reforms we have undertaken. In the face of climate change negators, including some right-wing and far-right Members of this House, we continue to bet on meeting the greatest challenge of our time, including transforming mobility, decarbonising our transport system and promoting public transport. These are measures, especially the latter, that are alleviating the economy of many families and that are helping to contain the price spiral. As it is still very high - I would like to point out in case some of the members of the PP have not yet noticed - Spain has the second lowest inflation in Europe today. I am therefore surprised at the announcement by the Community of Madrid that it will not extend the 50% reduction in transport charges by 2023 while benefiting higher incomes with tax reductions. As I said to you, these are budgets that are consistent with the mobility policies that we have been implementing and that give special prominence to railway investment. And they are also consistent with our commitment to public housing, whose social function we are going to enshrine by law so that the payment of a rent ceases to be the cause of impoverishment of many citizens. This justifies the fact that we have allocated the largest departure in history to housing. In the face of savage land liberalization, which is the only recipe that right-wing groups continue to preach, this Government maintains its intention to create a large public housing park for rent and to enhance residential rehabilitation, an activity that generates economic development and social cohesion. Finally, they are consistent in supporting the transformation of our cities, which is where the great battle for sustainability is waged and against economic and social inequalities. All of this leads me to ask you from the beginning to support these budgets, in which this ministry will have channeled the resources of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that we manage completely. These General State Budgets for the coming year 2023, as I said, are the Government's road map for the social majority, whose main objective is the strengthening of the middle and working class through the defence of the welfare state, the modernization of the Spanish economy, support for young people and territorial cohesion. Already entering the section of the department's exhibition, the priority objectives that we have set ourselves in these budgets for the year 2023 from the ministry are the following. With regard to mobility, firstly, decarbonisation, promoting active mobility, as well as the use and efficiency of public transport by road, rail and zero-emission fleets; secondly, innovation and digitisation, deploying new technologies to digitise transport and, thirdly, accessibility, reducing public transport prices, improving reliability, security and infrastructure with a gender perspective, as well as enhancing territorial vertebrate. With regard to housing, the priority is to promote the construction of affordable or social rental housing to facilitate access to decent housing, especially for the most vulnerable, to whom we continue to protect. In the area of rehabilitation, we intend to improve the habitability and energy efficiency of households. And with regard to young people, facilitate their emancipation with rent subsidies and the increase in supply at affordable and limited prices. Strengthen aid and the protection of economically most vulnerable individuals and families in order to guarantee their right to decent and adequate housing. These are the lines on which we are already working, and it is enough to make a review of the activity of the last few days to see that, indeed, it is so. Regarding mobility, in addition to our commitment to bring the law of sustainable mobility to this House before the end of the year, we have presented the future station of Girona airport; we have committed to the tram of Palma; we have promoted the railway connection between the airport of Seville and the station of Santa Justa or we have put in service the new bus terminal in the T4, at the airport Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas. We have also noted the progress made in the major works under way, such as the Mediterranean corridor or the variant of Pajares. In the area of urban agenda, we have begun the works of Madrid Nuevo Norte. In the area of sustainability, we have signed an important protocol for the development of green marine fuels. On the road we presented the energy strategy and granted the first package of aid for the rehabilitation of public buildings. And despite its importance, it is only a small demonstration of the actions that this Government is promoting through its commitment to society. In order to be able to continue this task, I then go on to detail the most significant data from the budget presented by this ministry. The consolidated budget of the MITMA group for 2023 in chapters 4, 6, 7 and 8 and investments of the entities amounts to EUR 21,273 million, an increase of 9 % over the current budgets. This means that we have presented the most sustainable and social budget, the most ambitious budget in the last 13 years, because they are 66% higher than those approved by the People's Party Government. The investment amounts to 16,550 million, the largest volume reported since 2010, doubling the previous Executive's forecast in 2018. In addition, I would like to highlight the fact that it includes €41 billion in transfers to the autonomous communities and local entities for sustainable mobility and for rehabilitation and social housing. With these budgets, which represent and account for 1.6% of GDP, we hope to generate 310,000 jobs. And they are also clearly sustainable because 60% of our investments have green labels. As regards the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, EUR 5070 million is included in this exercise. In the case of direct investment in the year 2023 it will have been committed in its entirety and with this budget we hope to increase the implementation to 2550 million euros, representing 33% of the whole plan. And in indirect investment we have already made transfers to the autonomous communities and to Ceuta and Melilla in the amount of 3315 million euros to make their investments or calls, which is 55% already. With this budget we also ensure the transfer of all funds to the autonomous communities and local entities. And, in addition, we have launched calls for local entities or companies worth EUR 2620 million that have already been awarded or are in process. With regard to housing and the urban agenda, we know that it is a priority of this Government and therefore, given the social urgency in the housing sector and the absence of public policies of the past, we dedicate the largest budget in history to housing: EUR 3467 million, 5% more than in 2022. To social housing, in particular, 1457 million euros are allocated, of which 836 correspond to the Plan of 100,000 housing for affordable rent and, among many other examples, we have the housing that is being developed in Barcelona, Ibiza, Valencia, Seville, Alicante, Mallorca - Son Busquets - or Madrid - Camp, as well as other activities in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants, such as Olvega in Soria or San Andrés del Rabanedo in León. In social housing we also allocate 421 million euros, which are allocated to the State Housing Plan in its different programmes, such as the rental of low-income people, victims of gender-based violence, those who have been released from their usual housing, homeless people or elderly or disabled people. And 200 million for the young rental bonus, which will benefit 70,000 young people between 18 and 35 years of age for the second year. On the other hand, we will allocate EUR 910 million to rehabilitation programmes. Residential rehabilitation and its fiscal incentives will have 880 million euros for large-scale regeneration of neighbourhoods and the urban environment; also to enable, as I said, fiscal incentives in habitual housing; as well as for the rehabilitation of houses and buildings; and also architectural rehabilitation, with 30 million euros, to act in numerous buildings and buildings representative of our cultural identity. Finally, EUR 11 billion is for loans to promote building rehabilitation policies and the construction of socially or affordable rental housing within the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. With all these budgets and actions we will contribute to the milestone of achieving and implementing 510,000 residential rehabilitation activities by the second half of 2026, which will reduce the demand for heating or cooling by 7.7% and reduce the consumption of non-renewable primary energy by at least 30%. We will also promote the construction and provision, as I told you, of 100,000 social rental or affordable housing; facilitate access to decent housing for more than 270 000 young people; and we will also contribute to enabling both autonomous communities and local authorities to rehabilitate public buildings, for which we have already transferred €480 million from the funds to the communities, which will finance 246 actions on an area of about 2 million square metres; and we will also transfer 600 million to local authorities, once the competitive competition call is resolved. I will also give you details of the main mobility items. In the case of the railways, it leads the investment of the department, with 7991 million euros, 18% more than last year's budgets. There is a 22% increase in that for the conventional and nearby network, up to EUR 3467 million; and also a 4% increase in high speed, with EUR 2694 million. Also, in turn, Renfe previews investments for an amount of 764 million euros; with them, we will put in service, in the first semester of 2023, the connection with Asturias and the second milestone of the high speed in Extremadura: the electrification of the stretch between Plasencia and Badajoz, which is also part of the Atlantic corridor. By the way, both corridors, the Atlantic and the Mediterranean, have in the budgets of the year 2023 a very similar planned investment: 1648 and 1695 million, respectively, according to our commitment, because both are indispensable for the economic development of our country. I do not want to forget the other performances in progress, of which I can quote, for example, the baipás de Almodóvar del Río, the outstanding works between Antequera and Granada, the high speed to Santander, the electrification of the Teruel-Zaragoza line, the Basque Y, the Murcia-Almería and a long etcetera. I would like to point out that a total of EUR 2200 million, 20% more than in 2022, is earmarked for the neighbourhood. This means tripling the investments of the previous Government. We do this because it is a public service in which more than 443 million annual trips are made, where we want to enhance the reliability and timeliness of the service, help reduce emissions and increase demand. Thus, the actions will be oriented towards the improvement and renovation of the track, the stations, electrification, the installations and the protection of steps at the level. On the other hand, we have allocated EUR 2666 million to roads, of which EUR 1548 million are for conservation, reversing the deficit of recent years and reaching the historical peak. In addition, pedestrian and cycling-oriented actions are planned, seeking the safety of the most vulnerable users, among other actions, with the humanization of journeys in the urban environment and the protection of wildlife to reduce abuse. A total of EUR 1206 million is allocated to the maritime mode in the budget. Ports play a key role in intermodality, logistics chain efficiency and decarbonization, so we will continue to improve terrestrial access and the intermodality of the port network, promote alternative technologies and energies, and boost investments in digitization and sustainability. Similarly, with regard to SASEMAR, we foresee the investment necessary to ensure the functioning of our maritime rescue system and the fight against pollution. The air mode also receives a total investment of 827 million euros. In the case of AENA, efforts will be made to ensure the recovery of traffic and efficient management of the airport network in terms of safety and quality. It will also continue to make progress in environmental sustainability as a backbone of all actions, especially with the photovoltaic plan, and, of course, innovation will be an essential part of service delivery. On the other hand, ENAIRE provides the basis for the recovery of air operations and their economic situation. Digitalisation, greater automation and the use of satellite technology will be key to driving the Single European Sky, with greater benefits in terms of sustainability and capacity as well. As far as sustainable mobility is concerned, the budget envisages funds to boost active and decarbonised mobility in our cities, amounting to EUR 860 million. With this, we are making progress, for example, in the creation of 550 kilometres of new bicycle lanes and in the conditioning of 450 kilometres of existing cycling lanes, as well as in the pedestrianization of streets, the establishment of low-emission zones in municipalities, the acquisition of zero-emission buses or the establishment of public bicycle rental systems. In order to achieve mobility accessible to all, more than EUR 3 billion is planned for transport aid; EUR 13 billion for rail public service obligations, near, rolling stock and half-distance; EUR 924 million for transport aid in extra-penisular territories; EUR 373 million for transport consortia; EUR 98.5 million for road passenger and freight allowances; EUR 24.5 million for large family allowances; and EUR 15 million for State concessions for regular road passenger transport. In addition, I would like to highlight that 660 million euros are allocated, as you know, to maintain the freeness of proximity, rolling stock and conventional half-distance, as well as to reduce by 50% the Avant fertilizers; and more than 15 million euros to finance new recurring Avant services, the future intermodal tickets, of which we are going to do a pilot experience between Soria and Calatayud; innovative measures of transport to demand for areas at population risk; and the new railway services of proximity between Palma del Río and Villa del Río, Illescas-Fonlabrada-Humanes, Málaga-El Chorro-Caminito del Rey, Murcia-Cartagena and Medina del Campo-Valladolid-Palencia. The continuity of free allowances is a good reflection of what we see as a service to citizens, in this case, as regards daily mobility. It is an unprecedented bet on public transport, with the great environmental benefits it entails, compared to the use of the private vehicle. We are talking about saving more than 350 million litres of petrol and avoiding the emission of more than one million tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere throughout the year 2023. It is a bet that also has a positive impact on families' pockets. In fact, with the continuation of this measure in 2023, a family of four people can save between 1800 and 3000 euros over the next year. Although many said that this would be electoral and that the measure would not be worth anything, more than 2 million free allowances have already been issued, indicating the excellent reception by citizens. In the same vein, we must welcome one of the agreements reached in the context of the budget negotiations, which will also make state-owned bus lines free of charge, taking a step further in the area of mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. We have put before this House a sustainable budget and for people, who approach people where they cannot get there, who manage to shorten distances, because never before has a government been as close to people as it is now. Behind the figures and budget lines there are people with names and surnames, who are the last recipients of all our actions, who occupy the heart of our policy, because we are going a step beyond the mere construction of the big infrastructures, we are focusing on the services we provide to the citizens and turning into the environment where they reside. In addition, we also help to cope with the climate emergency in which the planet is located, promoting the most sustainable modes of transport and seeking energy efficiency. Thus, we are getting the policies promoted by the ministry to contribute to the change in the economic and productive model that our country needs. We are advancing in social and territorial cohesion, helping those who need it most, the most vulnerable, and transforming our country, abandoning the radial conception and getting the transport system more and more malled; a transport system that, in addition, must give a revulsive turn towards intermodality, thinking about facilitating the mobility of people and goods in the best possible way, seeking optimization and also gaining in efficiency. These are the lines of work of our Government and the orientation that we have sought to put into this draft general state budgets for the coming financial year 2023. Finally, I would like to thank those political formations which, during the procedure of the draft budgets, have expressed their willingness to support them and which, moreover, are being or have already been implemented in the adoption of amendments. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeated a great deal in this rostrum the usefulness and responsibility that we all have here. I have spoken about what we represent, an interest superior to the particular interest and the interest of our own parties. I believe, frankly, in that capacity for dialogue, in that capacity to reach agreements for a better good than us, for a common interest, and to keep it always in mind despite the obvious differences. Above all, we have to keep it in mind in such a turbulent time that families and businesses expect much more from us. And what's so much more? For that capacity of understanding, that capacity to put forward the interests of those we represent, beyond personal or partisan interests. And that's how we started two Canary Members negotiating budgets that we understood were not useful enough for the Canary Islands and that we could improve them. And so, we tabled two hundred amendments to budgets that we thought could be more useful to the Canarian families. With work, dialogue and much effort we understand that in order to be useful at times one has to give up. We had to give up a lot of things to get many more, and these two hundred amendments we managed to turn into twenty-one amendments that turned unhelpful budgets into budgets that would help families and businesses in difficult times. From these measures, we take out two very important measures which have had a lot of impact. One of them, the one hundred per cent bonus of freight transport, which was met with that one hundred per cent bonus and which is going to advance part of that bonus six months before what was being paid. This measure has a brutal impact on the primary sector, livestock, which everything comes to it by sea, inputs to feed the animals, and which is totally asphyxiated. It is a measure of relief, a good measure for the banana sector of La Palma, after the volcano, the pandemic and so many things that have affected them. It is a measure that also impacts families, in that shopping basket that kept coming up and that thanks to a 100 percent measure of transport, which we have managed to achieve, the families' pockets will be relieved a little more. And another measure of justice that has had a great impact is the 100 percent bonus of our proximity. Something we repeated, that we didn't have trains, that we had guaguas. This 100 percent bonus of guagua is a very positive measure, which will help from students to workers, to retirees, and which will not only ease the pockets of the Canary families, but will help social cohesion, will help to walk towards a more sustainable transport. It is a measure that we understand to be very good and that goes for these transport vouchers that previously cost 50% and are now going to be free. We understand that it is a measure that is not for the tourist who comes two days and wears the guagua for free, it is a measure for those who live there to have a help in these times more of crisis. And with a measure like this, so positive, I'm going to talk about what I understand as bad politics and an issue that worries us very much. Following the adoption of this measure in the Canary Islands, parties of all political colours, even those who govern - and we have negotiated this measure - are putting down a number of problems so that the impact of these measures is what I believe we have negotiated to reach the Canarian citizen. And here I was talking about our role, the role of the good politician because, unfortunately, not all politicians have that common good in mind. In the Canary Islands, we are concerned about this news that tries to put conditions at a hundred percent that did not have 50%. That is why I ask you, Minister, that please clarify to the Canarian citizen that if for the Socialist Party 50% of the bonus to the transport of the guaguas was good, the 100 percent is twice good, because the conditions are the same. And if the citizens of the Canary Islands were to see their transport allowance reduced to 50%, they will now see them reduced to one hundred percent. Please stop adding non-existent concerns to the Canarian citizenship, when this measure will ease and not generate non-existent concerns. For this reason and for the sake of this honest negotiation that we have carried out two canarian MPs with the Government to have a positive impact on the mobility of canaries and canaries, I ask you, please, to clarify and clear up these non-existent doubts. In conclusion, we have no doubt that these two measures are essential for the Canary Islands, they are good for the Canary Islands. We do not understand how there are those who feed on opacity, concern, putting obstacles and clippings to a good measure for a purely personal interest and because they were not the achievers of this measure. It is obvious that the reasons these parties have are not the interests of the citizens, it is a personal interest. And I want to claim once again in this rostrum that we are to serve, we are not to hinder. Politicians are tools to help citizens and we have to have that common good in our heads before the particular or partisan interest, because the social good and the common good have to be above any electoral interest. That is why I ask you not to understand this social good, this common good, or those who do not come to politics to do this common good, to turn away, because we come to remove concerns, not to add them, not to be one more slab in the Canary families and in the families of this country. So, minister, please, I ask you about this measure that has cost us so much to get and that it is good for all the canaries, to clear up the doubts that you are going to go where you have to go, to the canaries families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u160	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Minister. I support the amendments tabled by my group, Citizens, in this section. The first thing I would like to point out once again, as I said in the Committee on Budgets, is that these accounts do not have their proper financing of the planned expenditure through the revenues calculated by this Government, and this is a very important issue for this section, because we are talking primarily about investments in transport and mobility infrastructure, as well as housing policies. The former of these investments must help as an economic engine the greatest and best progress of our country, and the latter to guarantee the right of all Spaniards, but especially of those who have the most problems, to access decent and adequate housing. The problem is that this Government cannot guarantee today that it will collect what is proposed, nor can it even guarantee, as has happened so many times before, that it will implement everything it budgets. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, if the main criticism of nationalist groups, which have made the change of chromosomes and even blackmail their way of negotiating, is, as we have heard here, that the government of Pedro Sánchez does not give them what it has promised, what can we expect the rest of the Spaniards who remain loyal to the idea of Spain? Why are we really going to believe the citizens of the province of Alicante, for example, once again the last in per capita investment in 2023, as in 2022, that one day the budget is going to be fair to us, when we get more and more away from the national average of investment? Yesterday we heard Mrs Sagastizabal of the Basque Nationalist Party say that they are here only to secure the Basque agenda, and that once they have succeeded, they will give the yes to the budgets. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: what about the Spanish agenda? Where is the country agenda that these budgets should contemplate and respect? This agenda is in the amendments that Citizens have tabled to this section of the budgets. It is in some amendments that are committed to sustainable mobility in all the Spanish provinces and communities, without distinctions or privileges, but rather to the primacy of territorial cohesion and respect for the commitments of previous governments and of the latter, which are still not being fulfilled. Because they are amendments on transport and mobility that spill over the territory and connect all Spaniards, not as has happened, for example, with measures such as frequent travel vouchers, which have simply caused trains to travel with all their empty squares. And, look, because we have a bridge now in December and we're going to see empty trains again for sale but with all their empty seats. That is why we have tabled amendments as investment proposals in Murcia or Madrid, in Guipúzcoa or in Girona, in Valencia or in Cáceres, from north to south and from east to west, in terms of high capacity roads and roads, in terms of railways, both in the conventional and high speed network, or ports and airports. Of these amendments, the Government has vetoed proposals to push forward the cantabrian-Mediterranean corridor, for investments in the railway network in Cantabria, for road development and road improvements in Girona and Tarragona, for urban integrations in the railway network in Madrid, Malaga or Almería, or for a network of neighbourhoods in the latter province that it still lacks. We have been vetoed railway services that we claim as public service obligations, such as the Logroño-Madrid line. But we keep our amendments to this budget in almost a hundred proposals throughout the Spanish territory, also in those territories always favoured by the pacts with the nationalists, who then end up complaining curiously that everything is too little to continue to claim more of a government kneeling before these nationalist agencies. Citizens' amendments have in any case the will to develop the network of infrastructure and mobility and transport throughout Spain and not only where this government has to seek support in exchange for investments. This is why we are proposing a programme of assistance to young people between sixteen and twenty-seven years of age to travel through Spain by rail, for a sum of 500,000; or a study on the alternative of long-distance journeys by rail for 250,000 euros; or a programme of grants by means of transfers to the autonomous communities to facilitate access to housing, especially for young people, of 50 million euros; or investments as a whole, as I have said, in conventional rail, high-speed networks, roads, places that have been demanding action for many years, or in infrastructures that are pending completion and without news of them, despite the promises of exercise after exercise. And if you want to talk about housing and the policies that this government and its ministry are carrying out and that we can sum up in one word: nothing. In fact, the government has vetoed our proposed amendment to reduce net positive returns for rental of housing by up to 90% in the event of real estate being transferred to public administrations or third sector entities for public housing rental programmes. Nothing is being done about a clear problem of access to housing by the poorest or lowest-income sectors of the population, as well as young people. That is why in our amendments we propose an impetus to the effective housing policies of the autonomous communities through the transfer of 50 million euros in 2023 for the promotion of real housing policies to a government that has been promising solutions to this problem for years but of which we only have words and, above all, internal conflicts between PSOE and the United We can for a housing law that we still do not even know what end it will have. As I told you in the Commission, this section is one of the calls not only to spend but to invest, because its credits have as their fundamental objective to produce in the future and generate socio-economic development and well-being, and unfortunately none of that seems to be in sight if they do not budget for all but only for those who offer their votes to remain in the Government for a few more months, and moreover the level of implementation of what they budget is so low year after year that it ends up promising the same investments from previous years. They attend to the Citizens' amendments, bet on possible, necessary and beneficial investments for all. That's exactly where they have them to vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u161	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, you said that in these budgets 22 billion will be allocated to close services, with a growth of 20%. As I asked you on some occasion, do you know how many of these 22 billion, how many euros are going to be allocated to the neighbourhoods in Galicia? For it is easy, there are no closenesses in Galicia, therefore 0 euros. These budgets do not make it possible to recover the historical backwardness, the historical deficit of infrastructure investments in my country, in Galicia. There are many amendments tabled by the BNG in this area, among other things, because there are many needs. Since I have very little time, I will refer only to some of them. In the field of road infrastructure, the A-54, which is eternal, more than twenty years under construction; the A-56, the A-74 and the A-76, which cannot be started. It's a proximity service that doesn't exist. You created five new ones in these budgets, none in our country. Modernisation of the internal rail network; completing, for example, the Atlantic axis between Vigo and the Portuguese border. And the example is Lugo, a city isolated from the point of view of road and rail communications. [[Shows a sign reading: 'LQT #LugoQuereTren']] That's why the discontent in Lugo manifests itself with this slogan: 'Lugo want in', motive for mobilizations...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u163	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u164	...like the one you're still going to visit this afternoon in the city of Lugo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u166	Thank you very much, President. We have already announced our vote in favour. We believe that there are some things that have been achieved, 51 million for Alacant in railway structures or roads, 2 million for the metropolitan transport of Valencia, 5 million for proximity and the commitment of the ministry to make the variant of Torrellano the one that is executed for the connection with the airport and the subsequent elimination of the roads of the maritime facade. But in your ministry there are always pending subjects, not only from you but from the ministers and ministers who preceded you. The first outstanding subject is execution. The execution, in reasonable terms, could say that it is scandalously low in relation to other territories, such as, for example, Madrid. The connection of Alicante airport with Alacant and with it is terribly slow, does not advance what had to advance. Then you were close. The measure of lowering and becoming free has been good, but this has led to an increase in the number of people in the vicinity that has been added to the delays, the cancellations and the incidences that already had in the vicinity and that has worsened for the users. There have been reports of trains on which there were literally no more people, which has led to situations, even of distress or anxiety. It also has other pending subjects: Mediterranean corridor. They told the businessmen last week. In Barcelona it has to go faster. The Tren de la Costa is that infrastructure that we all think is absolutely reasonable, that it has to connect all the Valencian maritime facade, that is where the population, the tourism, the services and, ultimately, the economy is concrete, and that has never progressed for thirteen years.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u167	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u168	And finally, an urban transport law so that airports are not a fight and that money is distributed with absolutely objective criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u170	Thank you, President. These budgets in the field of your ministry, Minister, are good budgets, and how they will end up coming out, they will still be better. The challenge, you know perfectly well, lies in the implementation of these budgets. Our responsibility is to provide them with budgets, and your responsibility is to implement them. I hope that this exercise will have a high degree of implementation. With regard to his ministry, I should like to thank him for his willingness, in the context of budgetary negotiations, to reach the agreement we have reached with the Democratic Party, on a subject that concerns us, and you know it from the first day, that is the aggravation that caused those users who do not have access to a railway and that their only public transport is by road, when the free public transport by rail was introduced. We have reached an agreement that the lines of state ownership of public service obligations will be free of charge during 2023, as long as free rail transport lasts. That is very good news, although surely insufficient. We think that we must also reach those lines of autonomous ownership and our perspective, even if it does not surely please all the autonomous communities, is that the Government should contribute an additional percentage, but as long as the autonomous communities will contribute an additional amount, and in those autonomous communities where the contribution is not made, the State should not do it in its entirety. But, in any case, it seems a good step and let us hope that it can be implemented quickly. We have also incorporated, in accordance with the negotiation with the Government, nine more amendments within the scope of its ministry. They're all important and I'm not going to highlight any. Perhaps one yes, because I have been asked to move it, which does not amount to a significant amount, because we are talking about EUR 1 200 000, but for the entity it is a very relevant amount, and it is the contribution that will be made to the Museum of the Railway of Móra la Nova, which will allow part of the new acquisitions of the museum not to be outdoors. Thank you very much, therefore.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. These budgets continue to be expansive budgets, which seek to emerge from the neoliberal model, from a model based on cuts, based on control, on the reduction of public expenditure and on the inability of the public sector to push the economy forward, and seek precisely the opposite; they seek that the State becomes a dynamic element of the economy and at the same time in the defence of the interests of the social majority, which are concrete in the determined support for public transport. [[The Lord]] And, in that sense, our group obviously appreciates it very positively. We believe that they are useful for the social majority and that, moreover, we need to be aware of what they mean, what path they are opening up, but at the same time allowing us to look to the future with some hope. We have to be able to see that these budgets continue to suggest that the railway sector remains a key sector and that, at the same time, they start to walk along the path of understanding that investments have to go essentially to the services that are mainly used by citizens, which are conventional train services, turning the investments of the last decades, which had left the conventional train, which is the one that uses the majority of citizens, devoting all investments to high speed. We believe that this has to be the way, that we are still far from being able to meet the percentages of use. We believe that extending support for public transport to other sectors is very important, both for the ecological transition and for social justice, and to be able to understand that at a time like this increasing the disposable income of working people is a central element in order to be able to emerge from the moments of crisis caused by the war we are experiencing; and to that extent, we believe that they are providing elements that are key to be able to look to the future. In this sense, we believe that there has to be a reflection that looks a little bit into the future, and looking a little bit into the future means that we are able to understand that outsourcing processes, that privatization processes have been a failure, have been a burden on public services, that we must continue to bet on internalizing services in public enterprises, and that this will precisely strengthen the capacity of the State to improve public services and to improve people's lives. And, in that sense, we believe that they have to follow the processes of strengthening the staffing of public enterprises. After what has meant by the cut in staffing over the last few years, we must continue to push in that direction and, moreover, to do so by means of social dialogue, that we are able to articulate agreements in all sectors, that we are able to carry forward once and for all the postal agreement, that we are able to carry forward the Renfe agreement, that obviously strengthens the capacity of workers. Because the more we are able to increase the purchasing capacity of the sectors of the working class the more it will increase the economic recovery capacity of our country as a whole. We believe that this is a central element in the process of economic recovery. At the same time, these budgets make a decisive commitment to housing, to investment in housing, which had been abandoned for a long time. In addition, they make a bet decided to form and articulate a public park of housing for rent. We believe that all the measures that are being taken are important, but at the same time we must pull out the SAREB and get those houses that our people have paid for to be put in their hands to guarantee the right to housing. We are determined to continue to work in this House to ensure that a law on the right to housing comes out in this legislature and that it is the first law of this democracy that allows the right to housing to go from simply being an enunciation in the constitutional text to becoming a legislative text that complies with the repeated recommendations of the United Nations Committee, which has been taking place for years, so that we change our legal system and guarantee the rights of people to those who use housing as a speculative element. We and we believe that at the moment this ministry is fundamental to be able to push the country's economic recovery. It is also essential that we understand that public enterprises must be involved, because they are a driving force behind the economy and a key element in meeting the challenges of the future. We will continue to bet on them and, at the same time, on quality employment and the collective bargaining capacity of workers. We wanted to ask the Ministry to review the minimum service criteria during strikes such as Ryanair's. We cannot allow pirate companies, such as Ryanair, to fire members of strike committees who are guaranteeing and defending workers' rights in an essential service such as air transport. [[Applauds]] We need the state to stand on the side of workers in such serious conflicts as this, because companies like this are spearheading the precariousness of the aeronautical sector. In the same sense, we believe that AENA has to make a reflection. The privatisation of AENA was a mistake, a ruin for our country, but it also had other consequences in terms of airport security, and it is urgent that we solve them. We need aeronautical firefighters to be re-staffed as soon as possible, to ensure that they are agents of the authority in order to be able to carry out their activities fully effectively and to guarantee the rights of citizens. Airport firefighters are not self-protection mechanisms of the company, they are an essential public service in a country where, in addition, the tourism sector is a fundamental element. We cannot be fair when it comes to complying with international aviation safety standards, but we must become an international reference in this area. It's over. We believe that, at such a difficult time for Europe, all democratic political forces should decisively bet on a peaceful, negotiated solution to the war conflict that is currently taking place on our continent, because it is the only alternative to the holocaust. We continue to bet on peace and demand that all democratic forces make every effort to make that possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u173	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Lorite Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Minister of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda is coming to talk to us about the more than EUR 21 billion that the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda intends to manage from the general budgets of the State for the year 2023. You have spoken a lot about spending policies, investments, infrastructure and all kinds of plans, but, Minister, you have not spoken at all about income, and I will tell you why: because the government is already sufficiently discredited in this area by all financial agencies. These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, are purely fictional because they are based on failed economic growth forecasts and uncertain revenues. Look, budgetary rigour is the one that accommodates expenditure to the volume of revenue, and you do the exact opposite: you pose what expenditure you want to make and, from there, you square the income with hammers, falsifying it and pleasing it. Minister, in these budgets there are more advisers, to your finger, for your ministry. In addition, these budgets represent more taxes and more populism and increase the bill that the next generations will have to pay. We already know that Spain will be the last economy in the euro area to recover from the crisis, yet Sánchez's election clock does not stop and is already running in the form of budget fireworks. These are the budgets of the photocopier, because you copy the same items as in 2022 and have been unable to execute them. We're in front of the day of the marmot. Mrs Sánchez, you have come to be a minister of the Government of Spain and yet you have become something else, an ambassador of the interests of independence and sectarianism to the Government. This is demonstrated by the territorial imbalances that are evident in these investment budgets, because, if not, how do you explain that, in the face of expansionary budgets, autonomous communities such as Murcia or Castile and León have such a sharp decline in investment? Or how does it explain that, in the face of budgets which distribute EUR 319 per capita in terms of investments, this amount is reduced for Cordobas to EUR 218 per capita, for Madridns to EUR 192 per capita, for the province of Jienna to the ridiculous amount of EUR 110 per capita and for the province of Alicante - always the same lighthouse, as last year - to only EUR 82 per capita in terms of investment? But imbalances are not only evident in terms of investment, they are also evident in terms of implementation, Minister. In the year 2021 you executed 91% of investments in Catalonia and, however, in Galicia and Andalusia only 69%. The General Intervention of the State shows that on 30 June of this same year in Andalusia you have only been able to execute 24% of the investments of your ministry and in Galicia and in Ceuta only 19%. Mrs Sánchez, you repeat continuously that this is the ministry of cities. I have many doubts that he is an ally of the cities in terms of management of mobility, urban planning, digitisation, sustainability and housing, subject with which, by the way, you have a good mess and a good interventionism. What I do know is that this ministry is widening the gap between rural and urban. With you, people living in rural Spain lose opportunities every day, and the example is what you are doing with this budget: to consolidate a concessional map of road passenger transport that comes to subtract that basic bus service from more than three million people living in 1500 rural municipalities. [[Applauds]] In addition, you exclude municipalities under 20,000 inhabitants from transport aid and investment in low-emission areas. But in addition to that, you reduce the contribution in these budgets to the Universal Postal Service, freezing at EUR 110 million, by 26% less than in the last budgets approved by the People's Party. Is that how you work for the demographic challenge? Do you also refuse, so far, to extend that gratuity which you have applied to recurrent users of rolling stock, proximity and mid-distance to users of the regular road service, which I remind you is 53% throughout the national territory? In short, they do not implement European funds for rail investments, they do not recover frequencies, they do not recover night trains, they do not comply, Mrs Sánchez, with proximity plans and they do not incorporate drivers through employment plans. I therefore ask you a question: what are you going to do within the framework of these general state budgets to avoid the multiple incidents and delays that the users of the railway services live on a daily basis? Because you will agree with me, Mrs. Sánchez, that the Extremadura Shame Train doesn't have a pass. [[Ms Sánchez Jiménez, Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, spoke words that were not perceived]] Yes, ma'am, again! [[Applauds]] And I will repeat it to you every time I have occasion, as in this week, where there have been incidents as well. Of course, again, Mrs Sánchez, because the problem of the railway services that users suffer day after day is spreading like a pandemic. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u175	Thank you. Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor in the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Last year this Government raised the salary of senior officials of the Ministry of Transport, while leaving thousands of families unemployed and closing the Spanish business. This year, the entire Government has raised its salary, as inflation goes off and households have to be covered with fatter blankets, because their climate fanaticism makes them unable to pay for heating. And the minister tells us that this budget, that of her ministry, is the most social in history. Not for transporters, Minister, whose retirement aid is maintained at less than 10 million, although more than half of the applicants are excluded due to a lack of budget, depriving them of a decent retirement. He's been reading budgets for half an hour, but he's had the little shame of not quoting this item. It will be that the transporters are part of those whom his Government calls rich. Or perhaps they don't deserve it, because, as you yourself have said, they are ultra-right groups that are trying to subdue this country and that are playing the game to Putin, aren't they, Minister? [[Applauds]] There are 10 million for transporters and 190 million for their migration policies, which, as the former Minister of Transport acknowledged two years ago, are ambitious, broad, exceed this ministry and follow the guidelines marked by a globalist agenda. Of course, it was ceased immediately after making these statements, which they tried to make disappear. They are the government of propaganda, but what they hide behind are the sickle and the hammer and the Davos Forum, of course. They're wolves with lamb skin. They say that these budgets are the most social in history, but, as I have told you, they deprive transporters of a dignified abandonment. But not just that. They say they take care of the working classes, but they suffocate them with taxes. They talk about depoliticizing justice, but what they want is their control. They say they protect minors and women, but they take rapists out of jail and oppose the investigation of the prostitution of children under guardianship in the Balearic Islands. [[Applauds]] They say they want to end corruption, but they want to eliminate the crimes of sedition and embezzlement. They say that pollution must be stopped, but our autocrat president mobilizes an Airbus and the Falcon to attend the Climate Summit. And here the People's Party does not differ at all from the socialists, because Feijóo, another accomplice of the same globalist agenda, calls for the removal of vehicles of more than ten years from a pen, which will cause tens of thousands of families to run out of cars, making it a luxury property, and Moreno asks Sánchez that the 2025 summit, the Climate Summit, be held in Andalusia. We deserve it, he says. No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Government, what the Spaniards deserve are budgets that watch over their present and their future and that do not spoil the fruit of their tax-based work to waste in a distribution of the cake intended to secure the government pacts with those who want to destroy Spain. [[Applauds]] What they deserve are budgets that guarantee the welfare state of all Spaniards, not politicians, trade unions and chiringuitos. What they deserve are budgets that allow young people to access a home, form a family, be able to save and prosper and not have to look at the price of what it means to fill the petrol tank or turn on the heating. In short, they deserve budgets that do not obey an imposed agenda that no Spanish has chosen, because who voted for their destructive 2030 Agenda, gentlemen of the government? The star measure is 665 million for the free travel of nearby and mid-distance, a measure that, in the face of lack of control, has caused chaos and that trains travel practically empty, despite being complete, preventing other users from making use of the train. And this as Renfe's rates increase for AVE and long distance and also as plane tickets increase no less than 24% compared to 2019 and AENA depends on a regulatory solution to save its electric cost, because - oh, surprise! - we depend energetically on third countries. He talks about a long list of infrastructure budgets that, since you have no time limit, it is impossible for me to repeat, but I answer him - with one word enough for me -: inexecutions. Infrastructure projects, carried out year after year, and the few that run are, at least, insulting, such as the Extremadura pedal train. [[Applauds]] Could you explain to me, by the way, what are those infrastructures with a gender perspective, as you tell us? In housing, the illegal occupation in Spain has increased by 40% since 2018; not a single euro of these budgets is destined to combat the occupation, but, of course, according to the Minister of Equality is a problem invented by the right. By the way, we are all invited to the forum that is being held this Friday by the VOX Parliamentary Group on Okupation and Inqui Okupation. There will be great professionals and victims of this phenomenon. Maybe they learn something. [[Applauds]] She talks to us, Minister, about housing development. What was your 2018 Plan 20,000 homes? I'm telling you, all propaganda, zero delivered. [[Applauds]] The housing law, for its part, has been stuck for two years. Its approval is delaying the Government because the repression of the General Council of the Judiciary, including a negative report, which rejects the Government's housing law, has already taken place. Nevertheless, both the minister and government representatives say that they will move forward with the agreed text. And what does this remind us of? The law alone is yes. It is aimed directly at destroying what they claim to protect; in this case, it will destroy the supply of housing, making it even more impossible to access it, especially the working classes. A whole history to remember. They are writing the most harmful pages of Spanish politics. Finally, there can be no support for budgets based on the abolition of the crime of sedition, which should not be reduced, on the pretext of being homologated with Europe. [[Makes the mark of quotes with your fingers]] Why don't they get homologated in the condemnation of communism, who, by the way, invented Czechs to torture and murder? [[Applauds]] That is what I remind the Member of Podemos, who said this morning that democracy in Spain exists thanks to the communists. This regime has been condemned by Europe to equate it to Nazism for its crimes, and you, on the other hand, not only govern with communists, but also pay them for institutional publicity with the money of all Spaniards, commemorating the centenary of the Communist Party of Spain, whose criminal ideology had to set a steel curtain from the Baltic Sea to the Mediterranean Sea so that no one would escape from its tyranny, which has enslaved the island of Cuba and which causes Venezuelans to emigrate for millions. [[shows a photocopy of the commemorative stamp of the centenary of the Communist Party of Spain]] [[Applauds]] I'm on my way. The Sanchist Government arrived on a motion of censure and was going to end corruption. Yes, they are going to end it, but by way of the repeal, both of the sedition, in exchange for the coups' approval of these budgets, as well as the embezzlement of public flows, and by the way save Sánchez and Griñán, for the personal eagerness to stay in Moncloa and secure his own welfare state. They sell Spain to the worst bidders and with the money of all Spaniards. In conclusion, Mr President. As you have said, Minister, you are not willing to give up any vote, but you are willing to give up your dignity to approve these ruin budgets. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u177	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u178	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. Yesterday we started talking about budgets. This is the fifteenth point and this afternoon we have eight sections. None of them like it, gentlemen of the PP. None of the sections like it, because you don't like us bringing three budgets in three years. In three years, three general State budgets. That's what you don't like. [[Applauds]] Because this is, ladies and gentlemen, the best indicator of institutional normality, the best indicator of stability and confidence for investors and the best indicator of security and the protection of citizens in our country. Therefore, this is a bad week for the People's Party and a good week for our country. [[Applauds]] The authors of 'the recovery funds are not going to reach Spain' and the authors of 'the Iberian mechanism is a thyme', today they present us 'these budgets are not real'. The trilogy. [[Laughter]] This afternoon, the European Commission endorses the government's budget plan - this afternoon - but you take what you are interested in from the AIReF or the Governor of the Bank of Spain and not the endorsement of that budget plan. But, ladies and gentlemen, politics is so great that this week they have a second chance. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the first party of the opposition, this week they have a second chance to show their commitment to the people, their commitment to the unemployed, to the pensioners, to the young people, to the businesses and to the territories of this country, which is what these budgets are about. But it's just that after voting in the last three years against most of everything that's been brought here to improve people's lives... See that the pandemic has been bad, that the effects of the war have been bad, that climate catastrophes have been bad, because the worse the opposition this government has had, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] This section 17 is the section of the data, and the data terminates all their accounts. The minister has already made a detailed and rigorous presentation of all the data and, therefore, I am not going to enter them, but they cannot be compared either quantitatively or qualitatively. As for the quantitative, there are matches that are triple, as the minister said. We invest in rail, road, housing, mobility three times what you invested. I think it's a tremendous fact. But also in qualitative terms, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you do not believe in sustainable mobility, and you know why? Because sustainable mobility is the main instrument of a country's territorial cohesion, to close the gap between citizens, is to make a citizen living in a municipality have a hospital, university or work centre in the same conditions as the man living in the Carrera de San Jerónimo. That's sustainable mobility, that's the bet these budgets make for sustainable mobility. That's why they don't like them. The other major pillar of this budget is housing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, 3467 million against 467. These budgets have three billion more reasons than their own. It's just that you didn't have housing policy, and you know why? Because they did not believe in housing as a right, they believed in housing only as a business. That's the difference. [[Applauds]] And of course these budgets take the issue of housing by the horns, of course, because it was the great outstanding subject of this country. There is no welfare state without a decent job and a decent roof. That's the bet we make on these budgets. That is why we have approved a national housing plan that is agreed, coordinated and endorsed by all the autonomous communities. Are you going to tell Mr. Moreno Bonilla you're going to vote no to 34 million for the Andalusian youth and the rental bonus? Are you going to tell the President of Murcia no to the millions for that national plan? Are you going to tell them not this afternoon? That's what the housing plan says. We also need to increase the public park to match the countries in our environment, as well as offer affordable and real housing rental. Those are the resources that go into this budget, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Mr Lorite, you and I are Andalusian, like fifty-nine other Members of this House. For the third consecutive year these budgets comply with Andalusia. For the third consecutive year, the population weight of Andalusia is fulfilled. [[- Mr. Lorite Lorite makes negative signs.]] For the third consecutive year. Investment in Andalusia is increasing: extraordinary investments are being made for sectors as important as naval or aerospace; an extraordinary employment plan of EUR 50 million is approved. Mr. Lorite, for the first time the Andalusians won after a decade with the People's Party of forgetting and being in the corner. That's why we won. Are you going to say no, Mr. Lorite, to the Mediterranean corridor and the Atlantic corridor? Look at this: 2 out of every 3 kilometres of the Mediterranean Corridor have been made with socialist governments - 2 out of every 3 kilometres - and, since 2018, 4 billion budgeted, more than 300 actions in the Mediterranean Corridor. These are the data, not the account; the data. For Andalusia, 725 million from the corridor. Are you going to tell the Andalusians they're going to vote not to finish that Mediterranean Corridor, Mr. Lorite? This is what our budgets say, because unlike yours, who only cared about some, only cared about some and only thought about some, ours care about and care for everyone. They are the budgets of the social majority of this country and, therefore, they do not like the right or the right. But the important thing is not that they like the right or the right, the important thing is that they like the citizens of this country and that on Thursday this country wins with these budgets. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u179	Thank you. We continue with the debate in section 19, Ministry of Labour and Social Economy. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u180	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to begin by thanking your ladies and gentlemen for their contribution to the budgets that are already in this House. I appreciate the debate and its contribution to enriching the general budgets of the State for the year 2023, in particular the parliamentary groups participating in this great country agreement, which goes far beyond a Government. The budget that I am presenting to you today is the one for the last year of the legislature and, therefore, we think it would be appropriate to take stock, that is, to report on the results of the public resources allocated to employment policies in the previous budgets. I would therefore like to begin by making an analysis - it will be very synthetic, over time - of the evolution of the labour market in the first three years of the legislature. We are simply strong advocates of public policy evaluation, who should have as their main tool the objective data to evaluate the results. [[The lady]] We humbly believe that the outcome is positive, especially if we take into account the adverse circumstances facing the European Union and our country over the past three years: a pandemic, an energy crisis, a very high inflation and a war in Europe. Today in our country, despite all this, we have more quality jobs and less unemployment than when we started this legislature, despite all that we have experienced. The number of people in employment has been the highest in our country since 2008. Women's employment is at its highest in our history, we have a level of social security affiliates that is the highest in our country's history. We've never had as much salaried employment in history as in this year 2022. They will also allow me to tell you that the number of young people in employment is the highest in the last eleven years, close to 3 million. Remember also that when we arrived at the government, the youth unemployment rate was 41% and today it is 29%. We also have the lowest rate of temporality in the entire historical series of our country; we never believed it, but we are at 17.5 %, a percentage that is already very close to the European average, which is at 15 %. As you know, the Spanish average has always fluctuated between 31 and 35 %, and today we already look more like Europe. The unemployment rate has been at its lowest level for 14 years and is well below the average in our country, which, as you know, stood at 17%. Therefore, despite the enormous difficulties that we have experienced in this parliamentary term, we believe that, with all the contributions from all the parliamentary groups, who have understood the difficulties of the times we were living in, and also from the social partners - to whom I am grateful -, frankly, today the balance that we can make in this area is positive. And, despite the enormous uncertainty that surrounds us, we will continue to put the means in place so that in the year 2023 we will continue along this path. To this end, the Ministry of Labour presents a consolidated budget, as you know, amounting to EUR 29 473 million, with a reduction of 2.22% compared to last year 2022. Actually, this is very good news. Expenditure is reduced simply by the positive evolution of the labour market, which allows us to maintain the level of unemployment protection and still reduce benefit expenditure by EUR 1192 million. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, excluding this reduction in unemployment expenditure, the MITES budget actually increases by EUR 523 million, because these are the largest funds we will have for the rest of the proceedings. Entering into detail the general budgets for the year 2023 of this ministry, the most relevant elements are those that follow. Firstly, we are going to significantly improve unemployment protection. I would like to thank all the groups who have understood the importance of what we have done in these general budgets, because yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have eliminated, we have repealed one of the biggest cuts that led to social protection by the People's Party. Remember those Fridays of pains in which they were subsequently cutting public unemployment benefit, and in one of the last royal decrees reduced the regulatory base from 180 days from 60% to 50%. Well, the progressive coalition government repeals this cut, and we can say that we return to the previous situation and, as of January, the Spanish stops and stops will be able to receive 60% of the regulatory base. This means that your benefit will be increased by EUR 100, in average terms, by around EUR 1000 per month. I think this is extraordinary news for our country. The increase is over 11%, as you see, which means that unemployed people in our country who receive a contributory benefit will maintain their purchasing power in the face of inflation that is truly impossible in our country. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, let me also point out that we have raised IPREM to EUR 600 per month, a measure that improves and expands the protection of the most vulnerable groups. I do not need to remind you, especially your ladies and gentlemen from the Committee on Labour and Social Security, that IPREM was frozen for more than ten years in the so-called austerity decade and now has an increase of about 12% since 2020. This is an increase which, in absolute terms, rises to more than EUR 66 per month. In the general case, the unemployment benefit will be increased from 1 January to EUR 480 per month, an increase of EUR 50 accumulated since 2020, also equivalent to an improvement of 11.7% in the amount of protection to those most in need. Always note that we are revaluing and increasing benefits by offsetting the impact above inflation, this was one of the objectives that the progressive coalition government had in designing these budgets. This is how we maintain the level of protection, but, as I said, we cut unemployment expenditure by 5.4% simply and thanks to collective work and the good development of the labour market, which, as I say, has more jobs and fewer unemployed people. Please note that the actual expenditure on unemployment benefits in 2020 amounted to EUR 34 984 million. In the 2022 budget, the expenditure on benefits that this House subscribed amounted to 22,093 million. And for this year, the forecast we put forward is 20,901 million euros. In short, we protect more people and improve protection by increasing the amount of benefits, but we reduce spending because the unemployment rate is set at 12.8% on average in 2022 and will fall to 12.2% on the annual average for 2023. It is certainly too high a rate, as I am always told, but, as I also always say, it is less than half of what we have suffered with the financial crisis in Spain since 2013. I repeat: less than half. Active employment policies will reach - and this is of great interest to the Autonomous Communities - their greatest figure in history, with more than EUR 8 billion, of which EUR 6847 million will be managed directly by the Public Employment Service, which will, as you know, be transformed into the employment law that is being debated in this House, with an increase of EUR 367 million. It is the third consecutive increase in such a way that, compared to 2020, the resources allocated to active employment policies, in short, to improving the employability of Spanish workers, have increased by 2231 million euros, an increase of 38,5% - I insist - compared to the first year of the legislature, 38,5%. Therefore, in 2023 we will maintain the amount of funds transferred to the Autonomous Communities so that they can deploy the new active employment policies. Remember that the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs in 2020 distributed 1944.5 million euros among the autonomous communities. In 2022, in addition to the Ministry's funds with the share of the training quota it manages, the figure has risen to 3751.7 million euros, an increase of 1807 million in these three years, which is the equivalent of 93%. In a legislature hit by successive crises, funds transferred to the autonomous communities for active policies have doubled to the highest figure in history. On the other hand, as you know, SEPE's budget is financed primarily by the unemployment and training quotas paid by workers; we are talking about the rights of workers. Well, in 2023 we made extraordinary progress in the self-financing of the budget, and I believe that this is a very important element in our country. In this way - this is also remarkable - the contribution of the State to balance the accounts of the Public Employment Service will no longer be necessary. We protect people, we have more jobs and more quality, but we are also more efficient in the Spanish government in economic management. In 2023, quota revenue will reach EUR 27.2 billion, the highest figure in history and is, as I say, thanks to the evolution of employment and contribution bases, including the much discussed increase in the minimum wage. Well, raising the minimum wage base also serves to improve everything we are looking at right now and for the fundamental improvement of the self-financing of these services. Let me also tell you that the social economy will receive an extremely important boost in the year 2023, as we have increased the budget by EUR 34 million. As you know, we have already appointed the next European capital in a very important year, which will coincide with the semester of the European Presidency, and in which we will concentrate many activities that will focus on the environment of the social economy, which does not need to insist that it exceeds 10% of GDP in our country, with more than 42,000 Spanish companies, many of them absolutely exemplary, and with more than 2.5 million people working in their field. It is true that we have made a great deal of progress, we do it with the European Union, on the next 8th day at EBSCO we will continue to work and debate about the social economy, and Spain plays an important role in this. If you remember, in the new budget for 2020 we had only EUR 8.2 million for the social economy, now we have a budget of EUR 81.5 million. I am aware that much remains to be done, but- believe me - improvement is important. We have multiplied by ten in this legislature, thanks to your work, the resources allocated to the social economy, which highlights the importance that we attach to this solidarity model of organizing business activities from the Spanish Government and from the Ministry of Labour itself. Talking about social economy is talking about co-operativeism, it's talking about labor foundations, it's talking about fellow fishermen, it's talking about mutuals, it's talking about a lot of legal formations that, I insist, are of extraordinary importance in our country. In relation to the Labour Inspectorate's budget, 8.5 per cent is increased primarily in the staffing and investment sections to further improve human resources and computer tools that make the Inspectorate's performance more effective every day, to ensure compliance with legal regulations, which is what the Labour Inspectorate has to do. Remember that when we arrived at the government the inspection budget was EUR 145.8 million and now, for the 2023 year, we raised it to 206.4; so that in this legislature we have increased the resources available to the Labour Inspectorate by 41.5%. In addition, the resources available for the prevention of occupational risks are increased by EUR 26 million. This will enable us to develop the occupational risk prevention strategy which, as you know, is being discussed at one of the three tables pending social dialogue: practices for people in training, the training law and also the occupational risk prevention strategy. We hope that the work of that social dialogue table will be completed before the end of the year. It's over now. All the countries of the European Union are facing a scenario of uncertainty and concern in this year 2023, so the Government of Spain and the Ministry of Labour present general budgets of the State are responding to the concerns of the citizenry, because they serve to protect people, the productive fabric and employment, while at the same time advancing in the green and digital economic transformation of our country. The public accounts of the year 2023 expand social protection, protect purchasing power, support job creation, support the productive fabric, drive economic transformation and strengthen the progressive and sufficiency of our tax system, and all this is very important for our country. [[The lady]] I believe that these are budgets that give stability to our country, that give certainty to a situation of uncertainty for our people, that serve to generate confidence, because they are expansive budgets, with a very significant growth in social spending and investment until reaching the highest figure in our history. I hope they can give them their confidence and in advance - as I started - I thank them for the work they have done. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u181	Thank you very much, Vice President. In defence of amendments, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u182	President, ladies and gentlemen, minister, good afternoon. You spoke of a positive balance sheet, objective data. Look, since you like to talk about data so much, I'm going to give you one that affects this section 19 of the budgets: 31,1 % is the last data for the third quarter of youth unemployment in our country. We have 71,400 more unemployed young people, 15% more unemployed young people than in the previous quarter. [[Rumors]] We are the country of Europe with the highest unemployment rate among young people. Three out of ten under 25 years of age are unemployed. [[The Rumors Continue]] And, of course, without a job, you have no future.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u183	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u184	...you can't emancipate or buy a home or form a family. I deny you the greatest, minister. These budgets do not respond to the social majority, as you have said, because they forget about young people. But in addition to being the country of the European Union with the highest rate of youth unemployment, Spain is the country where the youngest do not complete their baccalaureate or vocational education; Spain is the country where young people take the longest time to emancipate, with an average of thirty years when they leave the family home or the home of their parents; Spain is the country with the third lowest birth rate in the European Union. [[Rumors]] No, Spain is not a country for young people. Look, budgets are the government's most important law, the law where a government shapes the country and society it wants, and if there's anything missing from these accounts that we're debating over these hours are ambitious policies that help overcome the problems, almost the curse, that Spanish youth suffer. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to speak, please go outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u186	What message do you receive from your rulers, ladies and gentlemen, someone who has just finished his studies and with twenty-three or twenty-four years of age does not find a job, or if he finds it is giving thanks for paying 1000 euros a month, when he sees that next year the maximum pensions will exceed 3000 euros? I disagree with you: these budgets do not give stability, they do not give legal certainty; these budgets perpetuate inequality, the inequality between pensioners and the rest of the Spaniards, that is, wage earners, businesses, self-employed and, above all, young people. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I have said inequality, because in recent years the average pension has risen by 40%, while the salary of young people has risen by only 6%. It is you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, who are widening the gap between generations, and who are wrong to accuse them of wanting to penalise pensioners when what we want exactly is to see general state budgets that support all Spaniards, already young pensioners, pensioners and self-employed, pensioners and businesses, pensioners and those who want to form a family and have children, and those who are being trained, those who want to be emancipated and those who seek work for the first time. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, also ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have been lukewarm in your employment reforms when you have ruled; you have lacked ambition and there has been no complacency. And yes, we must continue to work to put an end to the temporality and duality of the labour market, to allow every worker to develop the project of life he wishes, with all guarantees and with all freedom, so that young people can emancipate themselves and build a future life that is not equal, but better than that which they had those who preceded them. Because it is not all done, today the OECD tells us that the job creation in Spain for the next year will be null and void. And year after year, and so forty years, you and you have used the general budgets of the state with short-term and electoral objectives. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] We do not resign ourselves to continue working to make Spain a better country, we want Spain to be the best place to work, to live and to form a family. That is why we have made courageous changes to them in our amendments, amendments which, of course, have vetoed and prevented them from even being debated; amendments, for example, such as the Austrian backpack, vetoed. They have vetoed an amendment which merely called for us to sit down and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of changing this system in the working model and of being able to sit down and work, as parliamentarians who are, as rulers of this country, to seek solutions to our labour market. As far as I know, debate does not cost money, debate is neither an increase in expenditure nor a reduction in income; for they have vetoed it. But they have also vetoed our call for young people to be able to practice in the public administration, something that is done in most European countries and that, clearly, can promote the employment of those who start their first jobs; for sale. So in these general state budgets there is no provision to pay for practices in the administration. This is - I have to say - that the same government that takes out the status of the intern for practice in private companies now does not want to pay for practice to people so that they can do it in the public administration. You're tremendous. It's over now. Finally, miraculously, we have two amendments which have not been vetoed and which we hope will be supported by the rest of the parliamentary groups: an amendment for those who have or adopt a child to be entitled to one year of teleworking at home; and another amendment to improve public employment policies with a system of statistical profiling of applicants, an evaluation report on current policies and the creation of a web portal that unites all the bases of the different employment portals. To support these two amendments is to support conciliation, the promotion of birth and also to think of a better work system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u188	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have repeated... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u189	Wait a minute, Mrs. Sabanes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u190	We have repeated this many times, but after the insufficient agreements of COP-27 it is vital to remember it: the climate crisis is the great challenge of our country, minister, and it is not an abstract question, it has a direct and tangible effect on the model of labor relations and on the adaptation of the productive model; or, which is the same: in which sectors we work, in what conditions or how long of our life we dedicate to work. In all this, the role of companies, of workers, is and will be fundamental, both in the process of decarbonisation of the economy and in ensuring the conditions necessary for a just transition. Therefore, it is urgent to open a dialogue and conversation on this topic and to draw the measures that will serve for adaptation. With our proposals, what do we want? First, we want to address the urgent issue: this summer we have seen the dramatic consequences of heat waves, with the death of workers. We therefore believe that the social dialogue table needs to be opened in order to include in the collective bargaining an update of the models of labour relations that take into account the variant of climatic conditions. That's part of it. The other part: at the same time, the urgent cannot postpone them transformations in which we are playing the future. The changes will come, ladies and gentlemen; although there are those who do not see them, they are here now. It is therefore our duty to make it easier for companies and workers to analyse the risks and opportunities that these changes are going to entail and to design together how to address it. What do our amendments say? We propose to them the creation of the figure of the ecological transition delegate in the enterprises, in a similar or similar way to that already existing in the models of prevention of occupational risks; to carry out and analyse, in the ministry itself, a study to concretely affect climate change in the different productive sectors and in the models of labor relations; and, finally, to facilitate a clear commitment for the work of the social actors for the incorporation of measures in the environment and climate in the collective negotiation. We believe that, in the present, and for job creation, it is essential to take this variable into account. That is why I ask you, and especially the Government, to support amendments in this direction, which are Amendments 3413, 3414, 3415, 3510 and 3513. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u192	Thank you very much, President. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon to you all. On this agenda item we are dealing with the issue of the items of the Ministry of Labour, and I wanted to make a brief mention that on the part of PeCAT, as you know, a comprehensive agreement has been reached in the field of the general budgets of the State, according to which we will give our support for having taken forward some very important issues in the field of research, culture, sports and social rights. These Pillars, which are part of many milestones in the negotiation, also generate work, and therefore it is also important to note that the aid and support for these pillars that I indicated to them are ultimately support and help to develop jobs, to develop opportunities for all people. In this regard, it is relevant to note that the general budgets of the State, when these milestones are achieved, involve achieving other milestones, such as the generation of opportunities or the generation of jobs. Some of the issues we are dealing with under this heading relating to the general budgets of the State are also derived from laws that have been dealt with. The increase in SEPE's benefits was noted earlier. Evidently, it also includes that concerning the protection of housewives, a new protection of a royal decree law that we validate at the time. They also include increases in the Fogasa and increases in the interprofessional minimum wage. At this point, I think it is interesting that we have a challenge ahead of us by the end of the year, Vice-President, which is to know how the issue of the inter-professional minimum wage ends, what rise the Government is facing in this area and what effects it can have. One of the issues that pointed out to them - agreements of the general budgets of the State and derived from the legislation that we have been adopting over the past year - is that of cooperatives, the tax system that have such an impact that, in the event and even - let me say so - has had the labor reform on a reality as particular and as concrete as the world of cooperatives. Of course, we are very pleased that we have helped to correct the dysfunction caused by labour reform in the world of worker cooperatives. Some amendments, however, have not been successful, and I have an obligation to point out them: programmes relating to special employment centres, questions relating to promoting public employment plans with the autonomous communities or questions relating to the expansion of the partners in the social dialogue, so that small and medium-sized enterprises too are present. These are issues that, as you know, have taken up the political agenda in recent times, issues that we have turned into amendments to these budgets, which we do not give up and on which we will continue to work to achieve their completion. In short, in this area of work and social economy, as in all the budgets, of course, we will be voting in favour, but we wanted to highlight the milestones achieved and the willingness to continue working on what has not been achieved now, but which is undoubtedly the political line to work in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u194	Thank you very much, President. Minister, looking at your budgets, I thought this year they were going to bring them to us in one of those cups of Mr. Wonderful, which are full of buonrollist phrases, but empty of content, because the truth is that their proposals don't give at all. You have come to rescue - we are told - the Spaniards of the life you were carrying, and thanks to you you now lead a worse life, in which it is increasingly difficult to work and in which neither light nor gas can be paid for and even it is difficult to eat. Last year, in this very rostrum, when he presented the accounts for 2022, he told us it was a project for the future. He announced that decent and quality jobs would finally be created in Spain. And I ask him: Where is that future project? Do you have that decent and quality job in our country? Because today we Spaniards are continuing to queue up in Europe in terms of employment. We have the highest unemployment rate in the whole of the European Union, 12.7% against 6% of the European average. We have the highest youth unemployment rate, 32.1%, says Eurostat, compared to 14.6% of the European average. And the labour market, that labour market you have created, says 'no' to more and more Spanish women, because we have a female unemployment rate that doubles the unemployment rate in Europe. He predicted a bright future for employment a year ago, and I have to tell him that he has not managed to do so either by manipulating statistics or pulling people who are unemployed out of unemployment lists; unemployed, you call them whatever you call them. These general budgets are more tales than accounts, and the People's Party does not say so, say the public institutions, such as the AIReF, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund or the Bank of Spain, and also the private ones, such as the BBVA, Minister, or the Business Circle, who estimate that in this year 2023 we are going to grow less, we are going to have more inflation, more unemployment, more deficit and more debt. The Spanish, Mrs Díaz, we believe more in the data of the independent bodies than in that highly successful macroeconomic picture that you use to draw up the budgets, because these budgets prescribe to the Spanish the same measures with which you are killing employment: greater public spending, more taxes, more legal insecurity, more deficit and more debt. Its recipes have led us to be the last country of the twenty-seven to recover the levels of gross domestic product prior to the pandemic. Its recipes have also led us to lead and double the unemployment rate in the European Union and to have the highest inflation in the last 40 years. Weaknesses, that's how you and these accounts come to this House, because you and your government are like Pancho Villa's army, a band that undermines our competitiveness, squanders growth and job creation, condemns the most vulnerable, weakens the middle classes and creates a tax crater, which will be EUR 340 billion in four years; a hole that, as your banker, Mrs Calviño, says, will already pay, if that, our children and grandchildren. Madam Minister, you are incapable of managing both employment and unemployment. This macro table shows that virtually no stable full-time employment is going to be created. You say 0.6%, when in the update of the stability programme you sent to Brussels in April you announced an increase of 1.7%, three times more than now; a great success of your labour reform. In 2023, thanks to its management, there will be more unemployed people in Spain and fewer of them will be able to receive benefits. And I do not say this, these accounts say, because, after so many years of criticising job insecurity, your government has managed that 41.7% of the total unemployed do not receive any kind of benefit - I remind you, 41.7% - and that despite the fact that many of the nearly two million workers who have signed a fixed contract since January are receiving unemployment because they are unemployed. That's right, in their most chulian statistics they appear as busy. However, these budgets allocate EUR 1179 million less than last year to the payment of unemployment benefits. Mrs. Díaz, do you really get the bills? By the way, you are unable even to execute what you budget. According to the latest data from IGAE, they have implemented only 61.4% of the budgeted for the ministry and 62.7% of the budgeted for SEPE. What you have very little love for work is something that we Spaniards already know, but once again the People's Party is here to offer you our work, to improve employment. Take advantage, yes, take advantage of the experience of those who have already taken this country not from a crisis, but from several. And I would tell you more, I would tell you not to love us so much, but to want better, because you appreciate the contributions, but you will see one after another the contributions of the different political groups. That is why I ask you to lift the veto on amendments which are not against you, which are in favour of the Spaniards. We're talking about proposals for young people. We have tabled an amendment to set up a Youth Employment Assistance Fund with a budget of EUR 150 million to finance youth employment promotion programmes, with the aim of strengthening the employability of young people and reducing the unemployment rate of young people between the ages of twenty and twenty-nine. Youth is becoming a scarce and valuable resource in this country. Spain is full of talent, and you know it, Minister. It has one of the best-formed generations of our history and our international environment, but it does not find its place. There is an important sector that needs vocational retraining training, and all young people need a special boost to find work. We are also talking about proposals for long-term unemployed, because in Europe three out of ten long-term unemployed are Spanish. That is why we have proposed an employment plan, which you see, with a budget of EUR 100 million, with the aim of promoting the employability of this group and accompanying them in their transition from unemployment to employment. Ladies and gentlemen, 60% of the unemployed over the age of 45 are long-term. That is why we propose a plan for them, for those over the age of forty-five. Moreover, now that the legal retirement age, year after year, has increased to sixty-seven years, it makes no sense for a potentially active person to settle out of the labour market with no hope of a future. We have also proposed employment plans for those autonomous communities where the unemployment rate is above the national average, also vetoed by you, but that in future budgets, if you have the responsibility - which you will not have - to govern, you will present them, as has happened with Ceuta, and Melilla and others who vetoed previous years and today present as their own. The question is: Why do you veto these proposals, Mrs Díaz, if we know they are suitable for the Spaniards? Why doesn't it suit your government? What have we done to you Spaniards to govern against the most basic aspirations of the citizens of this country? Minister, changing the name to a contract - we have told you and we will continue to tell you - does not change the lives of people who want to work. Stop making sentences, stop making statistical tricks and get to work, you who can, that more and more Spaniards envy you for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Movellán. Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u196	Oh, Mr. Movellan, what an imagination! Let's start with contrasting facts. Budgetary investment in active policies, in the protection of labour rights and in maintaining wages and jobs as an alternative to dismissal, the ERTE, has been very positive. The Right could at least recognize the data, which are science, just not get dirty - my father would say - and could even do opposition. I believe that in the face of data that are objectively good, they choose in this case to divert attention, create social alarm and deny reality. The modus operandi of the supposed patriots is to question the legitimacy of the government on Mondays; to launch fake news on Tuesdays; to invoke the seven plagues on Wednesdays; to create alarm on Thursdays; to go to Brussels to speak ill of Spain on Fridays; and to lie on Saturdays. Sundays don't rest either, because then you remember Irene Montero, right? All support, minister. I have no words, sincerely, to explain to you the shame I feel every time I see you visiting the different European institutions basically to boycott resources for Spain or to boycott laws that represent important progress for all. What were they doing in Brussels trying to get less European funds to Spain? What were they doing in Strasbourg trying to censor laws that protect women? Are they not ashamed to use sexual violence against women to attack the Government? It's not all right, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's all right. To shame - I understand -, the one you have to feel every time you receive a doorway, in this case, in Europe; yesterday only the extreme right supported you against the law of the alone is yes. Despite you, we are faced with the best employment situation in the last fourteen years - yes, yes, the best employment situation - and this must be said every time Mr Feijóo says that everything is wrong. We have the lowest rate of temporality in our history, the highest number of workers in our history and the highest number of workers with indefinite contracts in our history, and most importantly: it does not seem enough. This sequence of positive data is produced on a journey that is still incomplete in the labour reform. It has not reached the year, but we can already see that it is generating very positive stability figures. Can you imagine what could have happened, if the labour reform had not been approved, to current inflation? It is obvious that labour reform works despite the fact that some people are uncomfortable not having supported it and have to tweet every month basically to justify themselves. We are faced with a major change which also translates into a very good situation for employment and, above all, for stable employment. That's right, the current inflation situation forces us to choose: either we bet on shared prosperity, as proposed by União Podemos, or we allow inequality to widen; or we record extraordinary profits, we find prices and rents, and we increase wages or we fulfill the dream of the employer and the far right. Eleven years has taken us to recover the figures before the 2008 crisis, and we cannot afford to fall into that hole again. So let us assume that there are public policies that are working. The gas cap has brought us the cheapest price of light and one of the lowest inflations in Europe. Many economic studies ensure that the problem lies in securing resources from the extraordinary benefits of some companies. And about the sections now debated, five highlights. First, grow by decreasing. The budget falls by 2.2% because unemployment benefits fall. There have never been so many people working and unemployment has fallen, so, of course, the expenditure is low. Labour reform has contributed to stability, and the budget is declining because employment and stability are growing and unemployment is falling. Second, recover and expand protection. We perhaps repeal the most painful and cruel cut of the People's Party in the protection system, when in 2012 it reduced the unemployment benefit from 60 to 50 % of the regulatory base. This means that unemployed people will receive an additional 100 euros from the sixth month. We have moved from the 'fucking the unemployed' to the 'right to unemployment'. We also raise the IPREM to EUR 600 per month, a measure aimed at the most vulnerable people. IPREM was practically frozen during the austerity decade and since 2020 it has accumulated an increase of 11.7%. It's good news, but I'm going to be clear, it's insufficient, and we're going to continue to bet on matching the interprofessional minimum wage with the IPREM. These budgets reaffirm the commitment of active employment policies with a historical ceiling of EUR 8 billion. We extend rights, yes, and we also rely on vocational training and mediation to basically increase the chances of finding employment. Third, new rights. Part of the increase is basically intended for such important items as unemployment protection for domestic workers. At the moment there are about 371,000 female workers in the General scheme's Special System for Home Employees who will finally benefit from this right. Fourth, end of impunity. Democracy does not end when we cross the door to work, so this budget reaches EUR 203 million in the Labour Inspectorate, 25% more than in 2020. There are companies, like Globo, that think they're untouchable, and it's over. We have a budget and also a political will to put an end to impunity. The inspection is doing a great job to end bad business practices. Vulnering labor rights is not free, Globo has already cost 78.9 million euros, and it won't shake our pulse. The platform economy is not going to be without rights, and this Government plans to incorporate 620 more people into the workforce of labour inspectors and subinspectors of employment. And fifth, the social economy. There is one fact that is devastating: when this government entered the ministry, the budget for it was 8 million euros; today it is 34. What was previously taken as a political and budgetary anecdotal, today is the central axis of projects such as the PARTE, a plan aimed at encouraging cooperatives and digitising social economy entities as a key sector. These budgets basically consolidate the successes already achieved and set the first stone for those who will come. These budgets are supportive; more contributions and more activity is also more welfare state. These Budgets pass the page and put the epitaph to the darkest and most corrupt neoliberal era in this country. Here ends M. Rajoy's legacy. We therefore call for the vote in favour of the third budgets in time and form. Many have put adjectives to this government, but it is a fact that has been the most stable and ambitious in recent decades not only in Spain, but also in Europe. Finally - and I conclude - Ernest Lluch is reminded of all the Democrats who recognize his contribution not only to the social development of this country, but also to ending ETA terrorism in this country. Love and honor to Ernest Lluch. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. Mr Zambrano García-Raez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u198	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the analysis of this section shows in particular that these ruin budgets are a disaster that has no possible arrangement and that only an amendment to the whole and a return to the government would be made. Today, groups which have tabled amendments to the joint text add up to their thousands of vetoes and none of them complain, but the sectarianism of this Government is total, it has proved it over and over again. I do not know what answer this Government expects. Ladies and gentlemen, this government wants us all to participate in a paripé when in reality these budgets are already tied and cooked between socialists, communists, separatists and heirs of the ETA environment. Today the news is known that the Government has surrendered to Bildu and will remove the Civil Guard from the Navarra roads. To that, a few minutes ago, a spokesman for the Socialist Party called it institutional normality. These budgets are the result of undesirable pacts for personal and party interests. What interests? Don Pedro Sánchez's interest in staying in his chair; the interest of the deputies of these groups who support him and his political clientele in order to continue living from the harshness of public money; the interest of separatist coupism in avoiding the sentences handed down by the courts. In short, these budgets of ruin are the result of dealings between the left and the separatists who will end up paying the Spanish with their freedom and economy. [[Applauds]] But let's look at some points of interest in this section in these few minutes. Unemployment. By 2022, the general budgets expected that gross domestic product would grow by 6% and a budget of more than EUR 22.4 billion for unemployment was envisaged for SEPE. Well, we're going to end up growing in 2022, instead of the 6% that was estimated, a maximum of 2%, after the slowdown of the economy in the third quarter. Now, the budgets for the year 2023 have been achieved with an estimated growth of 2.1%, when we already know that we are going to decrease in the first two quarters and even in the third. If we do not grow by more than 2%, we know that jobs are being destroyed in the country. However, with an economy growing less than in 2022, unemployment is expected to fall by 5.3%. There are 1179 million less budgeted, and let us also remember that we have 920 000 fixed breaks, which, although they do not count in unemployment statistics, do count for unemployment benefits. In short, the Socialist Government removes money from unemployment, knowing that it will need it later, through transfers, appearing a false reality and hiding the real needs of unemployment expenditure. [[Applauds]] With regard to self-employment, the Government had had no choice but to recognize in the budgets that there would be a serious fall in self-employment. With the self-employed they do the opposite, and the programme of economic benefits for the cessation of activity of self-employed workers increases by 207%. Already the amount budgeted in the previous year was such that it required subsequent transfers to try to reach all claimants. In short, it is recognized by the Government of the nation that it is going to be a very tough year for a column as fundamental to the national economy as the autonomous are. And to this we add the treatment to young people: young people are abandoned. While Spain leads the highest youth unemployment rate in the European Union, the OECD or the euro area, money invested in youth employability will be lower, the Youth Employment Programme will be cut by 39% and the Digital Skills for Youth Employment and Employment Promotion Programme will be abolished. In short, they are budgets that, in this section, show a clear sectarianism and a clear clientelism. There is a 15% increase in advisory expenditure to the Government in social, economic and labour matters; more expenditure on advisers, even more so, when we have almost 3 million unemployed in Spain, in addition to the 920,000 discontinuous workers, who are ultimately temporary workers. The costs for trade unions and employers, of course, and the transfer of real estate to these bodies do not fall; they are EUR 40 million intended, among other things, to keep trade unions quiet. [[Applauds]] Meanwhile, funds are allocated to ideological programmes disguised as green transformation or support to LGTB collectives. In short, more political clientelism. International bodies no longer hide that if the European economy goes into recession, Spain will suffer the worst consequences. These budgets are based on wrong estimates. They are a disguise that seeks to hide harmful management and truly undesirable pacts, and as we have already said in relation to the Employment Act, this Ministry of Labour and Social Economy actually remains as the mere ministry of unemployment. It is no more than that, a ministry of unemployment, because this government has already given up developing policies for the creation of stable and quality jobs, and it only remains to manage and, above all, to make up the figures of chronic unemployment and of a labour market that increasingly offers worse conditions to workers in Spain. These ruin budgets are an instrument of more than one illegitimate Government for perpetuating itself in power. From VOX we commit ourselves to rebuilding everything that this government destroys and call on the unity of all Spaniards to regain the freedom and prosperity of the nation. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Zambrano. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u200	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. Mr. Speaker of the People's Party, for those who have no shame, the whole street is yours. He doesn't like these budgets, of course not. These are ambitious, effective budgets with good news, especially for the Spaniards, a question that is not bad in these times. He said that they are ambitious budgets, which represent the second investment block for the government of Pedro Sánchez, with 30 billion euros to promote employment and protect working people. He said that they are budgets with very good news, because the data of the Spanish labor market, what are they telling us? That we have less unemployment, that we have more employment and, therefore, that we are going to spend less on unemployment benefits and subsidies. Some people don't like it. And you know why? Because you are more than supporting record unemployment data, because the People's Party is the party of the 6 million unemployed, because you did, when you were 6 million unemployed, twice as many as there are now, cut the general budgets of the state to stop protecting the most needy. [[Applauds]] These are budgets that also recover rights and extend protection to those who need it. And who needs it? The 370,000 female domestic workers, who will finally be entitled to unemployment. Who needs it too, now that the spokesman for VOX or that of the People's Party spoke of the over forty-fives? They need it, of course, those unemployed over forty-five years old who, with their regulations, the sixth month of benefit began to receive 50% with a cut of up to 20 points in the unemployment benefit. Now, finally, thanks to these budgets, these people, also those over forty-five years old, are going to recover at least 100 euros per month. And I ask myself, Why are they able to do this? Because they are now very concerned about the forty-five-year-olds, but when they were able to do the opposite. Because for the right people who are unemployed, who are actively seeking unsuccessful employment, who do not live in an easy situation in the labour market, those people, for the right, are vague. People who are unemployed in this country are suffocated by the right, cut off protection and call them vague. Isn't that right? This was done the other day by the Employment Advisor of Mañueco, who says in Castile and León that you don't need more work, but want to work. The VOX advisor, who has been resigned by the Public Employment Service manager, the Chief of Occupational Risk Prevention, the Deputy Industrial Dynamics Advisor, the Director of Public Service and, last Friday, the head of self-employed people, says this. And this happens in a People's Party-VOX government, which causes economic slowdown and slowing down growth and is the leader of corporate destruction in our country. This is not being said by this dangerous red, by the CEO and the businessman of Castile and León, begging them for a dialogue plan to sustain the economy and employment. [[Applauds]] And how do PP and VOX respond to the experiment we're suffering in Castile and León? They challenge eliminating the mediation of the SERLA, leaving the prevention of occupational risks behind and breaking the social dialogue with workers and companies. By the way, while governing the People's Party and VOX, the entrepreneurs themselves and independent bodies are going down the growth forecasts, right now the OECD, in real time, has just been going up the growth forecast for Spain. Spain grows and you're cut off. [[Applauds]] Well, that's good, 'cause he'll keep doing it. And it will continue to do so with accounts that give the greatest backing to the most effective labour policy that has been given in this country in the last decade. A reform that generates a labor ecosystem where there are more women than ever working in our country - 9.5 million - and where 3 million under 30 years of age work, the highest figure of youth employment in recent years. So, ladies and gentlemen of the right, Members of Parliament for the sad 2012 reform, how do they still have to resort to the current labour reform in the Constitutional Court? I would remind you that 1.5 million workers in this country, thanks to the reform of the labour market and the prevalence of the sector agreement vis-à-vis the company, have seen their wages increase; the People's Party wants to reduce their wages with recourse in the Constitution. One in two contracts signed in this country today is already indefinite; the People's Party wants that million people to have a temporary contract again with their appeal to the Constitutional Court. VOX and PP, PP and VOX are the same. Remove the resource and let the working people of our country live in peace. [[Applauds]] These budgets bring more things, of course they do. In addition to weaving a powerful safety net in the face of the personal and family drama of losing employment, they contain mechanisms that will enable those 3 million people who are still looking for employment today to find employment, and they will allow the productive system to be mobilized so that employment policies are effective. For them, only for them, 8 billion for active employment policies; more than ever. Finally, I heard the PP spokesman speak, shouting in the sky when he was talking about Europe. He very much likes to talk about the differential of Spain's unemployment rate with our European countries with which, by the way, we want to converge. Of course I do. Sometimes I think they would have to remember those chapters of Sesame Barrio, the chapters of Epi and Blas, I don't know if they remember, in which they speak from within or outside, high or low and near or far. Look, if when the People's Party governs the unemployment rate differential with the European Union was 16% and when Pedro Sánchez governs the unemployment rate differential with the European Union is 6%, who is closer or who is further from confluence with Europe? It will be the policies being implemented by the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be done, much remains to be done, but it is clear that in the country of the - today already - 21 million people working the right will never recognize any progress. You know why they don't? Because that would clearly demonstrate their inability to commit them during the time you ruled. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. The next item is the debate on section 21, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. The Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, on behalf of the Government, has the floor for the section's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u202	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the main lines of the draft budget as regards Section 21, which corresponds to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and also to its autonomous bodies: FEGA, ENESA and AICA. Let me underline from the outset the main objectives of these budgets. There are two structural objectives: to assist the agri-food and fisheries sector in the processes of transformation and adaptation to the challenges of digitalisation and climate change, and to promote the generational importance of incorporating a gender perspective in rural areas. There are two other objectives of a short-term nature, more immediate, but also very important. Firstly, it is a question of contributing to the resilience of the agri-food and fisheries sector in the face of the consequences of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which, as you well know, has contributed to the increase of raw materials and energy, as well as to the situations resulting from climate change, in particular drought and high temperatures. The second objective of the present is to ensure and strengthen food security, i.e. that all citizens have food and drink in sufficient quantity and quality and at a reasonable price. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u203	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u204	Section 21 devotes a total of €8970.13 million, of which €454.9 million comes from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. I want to mean that there is an increase of EUR 1156.7 million over 2019, that is, 14.8%. This was the first operational year of MAPA as such, once the entire environmental department was detached in a new ministry. With regard to this year's budgets, I would like to point out in particular four issues on which I would like to draw your attention: firstly, the new CAP 2023-2027; secondly, the modernisation of irrigation; thirdly, the consolidation of agricultural insurance; and finally, support for various sectors to which I shall refer. The budget of the General Secretariat for Agriculture and Food accounts for almost 94% - 93.72% - of the ministry's budget, which is EUR 8407 million. The CAP strategic plan adopted by Brussels on 31 August allows us to address a horizon of certainty and stability in the face of support for our farmers and farmers, which I often call the income insurance of our primary sector. The basic income aid will have support in the year 2023 of 2940 million euros. In addition, we will have set aside EUR 11 billion for the payments of the so-called eco-regimes, which are one of the major innovations of the CAP 2023-2027. The associated aid for the livestock and agricultural sectors will have an annual amount of EUR 675 million in the budget of 2023, and the aid to young people EUR 220 million, I would like to say that with a 54% increase over the previous year's figure. We will also start implementing the sectoral programmes of the new CAP - the support programme for the wine sector, the operational programmes for fruit and vegetables and the national apiculture plan - for a total of EUR 582 million. We will also devote EUR 4.6 million to the new CAP Network, which replaces the current National Rural Network. I would like to make a particular mention - because it is an issue of great interest to all your ladies and gentlemen and to the minister who speaks to you - of the POSEI issue, because it is a CAP adapted to the Canary Islands. In this budget we have managed to maintain the European budget of EUR 268,4 million, but we must add to that figure EUR 21 million, that is to say EUR 3 million more than the figure of 2021, financed by the MAPA. In this way, the Canary Islands has €289.4 million, which is a key aspect for the implementation of support to the agricultural and livestock sector. Telegraphically, I will mention some of the complementary priorities that I think are of great interest. The health of agricultural production and international trade agreements is an absolutely key issue. We have a first-class level from the point of view of the health of our products and our agricultural production, but we must maintain it. This means prevention and action against pests and animal diseases with 37.1 million dedicated to it, and also 3.3 million dedicated to the opening of export markets through, logically, veterinary or phytosanitary agreements or certificates. In parentheses, today and the last twelve moving months, we have a record number of agri-food exports of EUR 66 billion, never reached by our country, with a favourable balance of EUR 15 billion. In the area of food promotion and quality, and under the Spanish Food umbrella, all promotional actions amounting to 16.7 million and 28.6 million to finance the promotion of interprofessional organisations. In addition,4.9 million are dedicated to agri-food control laboratories. The implementation of the Food Chain Act adopted by this House in December 2021 is, obviously in cooperation with the Autonomous Communities, another of the Ministry's major priorities. To this end, we provide €9.3 million to the Food Information and Control Agency, AICA, which, in coordination with the regional agencies, carries out this control task. In the area of women and young people in agriculture and rural areas, specific support programmes for EUR 2.45 million, plus EUR 1.8 million for a programme to which I am very fond, the Cultiva Programme, which is the exchange of young farmers and livestock farmers between our autonomous communities. In the field of innovation, digitisation, precision agriculture and renovation of machinery stock we will devote 30.4 million to innovation and digitisation; 104.8 million - component 3 of the recovery mechanism - as regards innovative solutions in the field of agriculture 4.0, and finally 9.55 million - we increased 3 million - in the aid for renovation of machinery. In the area of agri-food training, we devote 2.3 million to training provided by the agricultural organisations themselves and up to a total of 50 million in the promotion of co-operativeism through the so-called priority associations. There is also a very significant item with an obvious social impact, such as the European Fund for Aid to the Most Disadvantaged, amounting to EUR 101.3 million. Finally, in this brief review of some of the most important complementary chapters of investment, within the agricultural and livestock and rural section of the ministry, I want to talk about sustainable irrigation, which is one of my main priorities, of the Government's main priorities. In this modernization we will devote a very important amount of the recovery mechanism. We had 563 million budgeted for the whole period, 270.7 more have been increased. Specifically, in the annuality of 2023 we will have a total of 364.75 million euros, adding to both the recovery mechanism and the own funds and other components in this respect. With this, from the beginning of this legislature until the year 2027, more than 2100 million euros will have been invested in modernization, a record figure in our recent history, more necessary than ever in a context of low rainfall, in order to obtain greater yield of each drop of water. In the fisheries chapter, in the budget of the ministry we dedicate a total of 110 million euros: 88.54 million, to which we must add 21.65 from the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience. There are two fundamental objectives: first, sustainability, based on the best scientific knowledge, and second, complementary to the first - or you can put it ahead -, that of profitability, which goes through innovation and the search for value added. Therefore, investment in science, data collection and oceanographic vessels; commitment by associationism; strengthening the value chain, through professional fisheries organisations, and also the fight against undeclared and unregulated illegal fishing. In short, it is a clear bet on scientific knowledge for the sustainability of the fisheries sector and its catches, which will undoubtedly have the opportunity to examine in the draft law on sustainable fisheries and fisheries research, which is currently under way in this House. To all this, we will devote the ministry's budget to this fishing party. There are, of course, very significant research projects. I would like to highlight, for example, the item on new fish stocks with very important data, analysis and evaluation, and others on the increase of the value chain, on the exploitation of catches in the fisheries sector as a whole and on aquaculture. Another key section - I mentioned at the beginning - of the ministry concerns agricultural insurance policy. Agricultural insurance policy is undoubtedly one of the key elements for maintaining farm income and economic viability in a situation such as the current climate change situation and the increased occurrence of adverse and extreme natural events. We continue the growth path that we started in 2019, this year we will increase to 317.73 million euros the total amount of the grant of agricultural insurance, which is an increase of 23% for this year. This is the highest amount a Government has devoted to support for agricultural insurance. [[Applauds]] Indeed, this is a fundamental chapter because it gives stability and certainty at a time of particular difficulties and, in addition, it considerably reduces the amount of premiums, the cost of premiums for farmers. In the case of young farmers, we come up with a benefit that can reach up to 60% of the premium. In addition, we have managed to prevent the possible rise, for reasons of imbalance between compensation and income, in relation to certain budget lines, from being unbalanced. I conclude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this is an appropriate budget for the present time within our agri-food sector - agriculture, livestock and fisheries - as well as for the agri-food industry, firstly, to consolidate its sustainability and profitability; secondly, to support its resistance to weather conditions and in an international context as volatile as the one we are currently living in; thirdly, to transform the productive structure of the sector and to respond to new needs and challenges; and finally, to ensure Spain's social and territorial cohesion, which is how we consider and how we achieve that food security that this House and that the Government of Spain undoubtedly defends, which means that we are able to provide our citizens every day with food and drink in sufficient quantity and quality and, of course, at reasonable prices. This is what these budgets mean and I certainly submit to the consideration of this plenary. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u205	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, I would like to assess the POSEI headings, which has been an important Spanish and canarian claim, and which also gives calm to the financial statement for the coming years of Community agricultural policy. I would also like to appreciate the agreement that we have reached with the Socialist Party and with the Government on these budgets, where there are other items that indirectly also affect the agricultural sector, such as doubling the amount of transport of the banana financial statement, as well as the price of the freight, which is a very important issue, because all bananas are exported, but not only that, thanks to the banana we do not have to pay the double freight of the goods that come to the Canary Islands, which is everything - oil, meat - absolutely everything. However, I did want to mention a battle that I have not been able to win in this negotiation of budgets, which is a very important issue for the agricultural sector in the Canary Islands, such as the demand for water. The amount there is in budgets for irrigation water is not enough, but not only that, but with the rise in the price of light, which has been fired in the Canary Islands - there are islands where 90% of the water is purified or desalinated - the companies that are public are about to compete with creditors. In addition, this affects not only the consumer who opens the faucet, the lobbying and town halls that have the drainers and scrubbers, but dramatically the agricultural sector, because the price of light also affects the elevation of the wells and galleries, which is the other water system of the Canary Islands. I hope that over the next few months there will be a conversation and a negotiation between the Government of the Canary Islands and the Central Government on a subject that is a basic element, since it is essential to turn on the heating, to turn on the light, but also to open the tap. We cannot bring the agricultural sector to a dead end. It also affects us that there are no other important works, the agreement on hydraulic works, especially on certain islands, because they were works that were planned and are not implemented because the agreements have not been signed and there are no additional items this year. However, I believe that we must make a positive assessment and, above all, on an issue that you are very involved in, which is the reconstruction of La Palma, having achieved those 100 million. We are concerned - and I know that you too - about all the changes in territorial planning so that we can comply not only with the reconstruction plan but also with certain European commitments. I appeal here to the administration of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands and to the lobby, so that this change in territorial planning can be made, that we do not put European funds at risk and, above all, that we can move towards an effective implementation of the reconstruction plan. There is a demand on the part of the banana sector that not only the fixed prices - which we have also achieved in these budgets and the advance of 50% in the first six months, which is perhaps of the most important things, because the compensation for transport takes two years - be updated, but that happens just as in the POSEI funds. That is to say, although the processing of the transport compensation request is done jointly through the cooperative system, that transport compensation is done to the farmer himself, as already happens - you know - with the POSEI funds. In any case, we will continue to work in the coming months on the issue of water, of course, and to try to push all administrations into that fundamental territorial planning of the island of La Palma. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u208	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are now discussing the amendments that have remained alive or not, in this case, because some of them have been vetoed by the government, but we do want to put them into value because we believe they are very important. Firstly, I wanted to talk about an amendment that has been recorded by a number of groups, namely the People's Party; an amendment on something that is already approved, which is the amendment on double pricing in the agricultural sector, double electricity pricing. It was approved in a motion here that presented Citizens and that negotiated after an inquiry to Minister Planas, but also later, in the budgets of 2021, it was in the final disposition 45 and they are already approved. This is something that is already approved. After looking at 5000 amendments, it is worth noting that amendments are being tabled on matters which have already been approved. It also draws attention to the fact that the Government has not yet put into effect as approved, as negotiated with this party, the possibility of a change in the electricity tariff in the agricultural sector. So, even if it is voted again in these budgets, we do ask the ministry, please, to put it into operation as approved in the motion and then in the 2021 State General Budgets. Then we wanted to talk about one of the amendments, a new additional provision that we registered from Citizens, for the creation of a scientific advisory office for agricultural specialization. With the aim of centralizing efforts around the Plan to boost the sustainability and competitiveness of agriculture, livestock and fisheries, we propose to create this advisory office because we believe that it would be very important that the Government's work in the General Courts contributed and ensure that the regulation we make here, and the regulations and actual decrees approved by the Government, are always aligned with the latest available scientific evidence. The agricultural sector in Spain faces several major risks, first of all generational relief, because young people do not really see this sector as attractive. We want to help them and believe that in this way we could attract many of them, it can be a way to attract new young people who want to dedicate themselves on this path to the agricultural and livestock sector. Secondly, by adapting the sector to the effects of climate change and to a context in which serious disasters such as droughts, floods or storms. New trends must be adopted by farmers and livestock farmers, and with this office there would be an opportunity to use better information, and that all the laws that we could manage and process here would always have that content and scientific backing of that office. As I said, this amendment has been vetoed by the Government, but we did have to put it into value because we believe that the future of the agricultural sector can and must be sustained within the scientific sphere. We also proposed - and it has been vetoed - a new additional provision to create an R+D+i program in southeastern Spain. The State Agency of the Higher Council for Scientific Research was entrusted with the implementation and implementation of an R & D & I programme in the south-east of Spain, with a special impact in the province of Almeria, and with reference to intensive farming with three lines of action: collection, treatment and recycling of waste products and by-products from this agricultural activity, with particular reference to plastic and organic waste; reduction of the environmental impact and recovery of degraded spaces by activity; and an urgent and efficient increase in the production of desalinated water for irrigation and human consumption. We thus support the intensive farming activity, which is a fundamental economic pillar in the southeastern Spain, revealing itself crucial to the Spanish balance of payments for the incessant and growing activity. However, the constant growth of this area dedicated to this activity and the constant increase in production generates not a few frictions with the supreme value of environmental protection. That is why we thought it was interesting that this R & D & I plan, at least, could be voted on here for these budgets. We also tabled an amendment as an additional new provision for the creation of an active promotion plan for the GECCO programme, collective management of recruitment at source. It seemed to us that an active promotion plan for this programme with the Spanish-American countries with which Spain has not yet signed cooperation instruments in this area such as Bolivia, Chile or Costa Rica could be very interesting. Collective management allows the hiring of workers who are not located or resident in Spain, selected in their countries of origin from the generic offer submitted by employers, in order to be able to carry out the work in Spain and to do so with the legal support that this plan would give both farmers and those hired in the countries of origin. Finally, I would like to point out that we have tabled an amendment, a new additional provision to strengthen health and plant health controls. We propose a plan to strengthen health and plant health controls because a commercial opening that is not accompanied by real control of plant health and health controls puts at stake the competitiveness and balance that must exist between imports, exports and our internal market. We wanted to make it clear that many of the amendments should not have been vetoed because they were very interesting, but we will continue to work so that in the future we can implement some of these plans. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u210	Thank you, President. Minister, the agri-food and fisheries sector has been going through times of great complexity for a long time. To the price crisis - to sell below the cost of production -, in our view not resolved in a reliable way by the law of the food chain, the effects of the VOCID-19 pandemic and the consequences of the war in Ukraine are added. That is to say, with the current scenario, the budgets we are debating today are of vital importance for the sector: companies at risk, farms that have ceased their activity because they cannot cope with the increase in production costs of raw materials, inputs or energy prices. The MAPA increases its budget for the year 2023 by 34 million euros compared to the year 2022 - in percentage, the increase is 0,39 % - with a total amount of 8970 million euros. In our view, the MAPA budget can be improved. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments, with the aim of helping to develop measures necessary for the sector. I'll list some of them. For example, declaration of general interest of the works of modernization of the irrigation of the Canal d'Urgell and the Canal Segarra-Garrigues. We are concerned about the lower contribution to the irrigated investment line compared to the 2022 budget. The modernization of the Canal d'Urgell is a priority project for the territory I represent, and I know that it is. It is a tractor project for both the Catalan economy and the Spanish economy. There are 87,000 hectares of land between the regions of Segrià, Pla d'Urgell, La Noguera, Les Garrigues and l'Urgell. The current irrigation system makes it difficult to automate farms and, in addition, means a low efficiency in the use of water. Modernizing the irrigation system would increase agricultural production and ensure more efficient use of water. In addition, the adequacy of the costs of the agrarian electricity supply and the establishment of a mode of access contract for irrigation which provides for the possibility of having two different powers over the course of twelve months. We're late. After more than two years since the entry into force of Law 1/2018 of 6 March, which takes urgent measures to alleviate the effects of drought on certain watersheds and amends the consolidated text of the Water Act, no progress has been made by the Government in developing the approved measures. Other topics include the extraordinary agricultural fund for crisis response; the reduction of VAT on goods and services used in agriculture; the correction of the taxation in the IBI of buildings linked to agricultural activities; professional agricultural gas oil; the coverage of the hydrological drought for irrigation in the agricultural insurance system; the inclusion of withdrawal and destruction insurance within the budgetary increase of the combined agricultural insurance plan; the action of public administrations in the prevention and control of damage by wild fauna agricultural activity; the revision of the regulation of the food chain; extraordinary measures as a result of the Cyril spillage and other climatic disasters in the agricultural sector throughout 2022. I would like to highlight Amendment 2658, exempt the agri-food industry from the payment of the Production Cost Adjustment Mechanism for reducing the price of electricity in the wholesale market. This amendment was rejected by the Bureau. The sector is restless and with a certain discomfort. Many of the productive activities of the agri-food sector, in view of the inability to meet the electricity costs of the last five months caused directly by the cost adjustment mechanism, will enter into insolvency and bankruptcy. The impossibility of impacting the increase in costs on the final price makes it impossible for a large number of companies. Our group will continue to work to address the misconceptions and effects of this adjustment in the sector. He also regretted the amendments that had been vetoed by the Government and took the opportunity to ask for the favourable vote for those who were still alive. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as mayor of a rural village where agriculture and treasuries are an economic engine and as a representative of a largely agricultural territory, I am concerned to hear from the various actors involved in the sector manifestations such as: We must reflect on these statements, place them to work together to reverse this feeling and to value the sector as it deserves, a sector that is fundamental to the demographic challenge, to the fight against depopulation. [[pronounce words in Catalan]] We must add to our efforts to ensure a generational relief that allows our young people to be deluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a constant murmur that does not allow us to concentrate on the speaker. Please, I ask you to remain silent. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor. [[The Rumors Continue]] Whenever you want, we continue the debate. [[Pause]] Mrs. Marcos, anytime. And when Mr. Matarí grants it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u212	Thank you very much, President. Minister, sad. Once again, it is clear and it is clear that it will conform. Do you really believe that these budgets justify Mr. Sánchez continuing to use the Criminal Code as a resistance manual to stay a few more months in the government? No, Mr Planas; there is no justification for the seditious to re-govern, for the corrupt to remain on the street, for the rapists to reduce their sentences or put people in jail for killing a mouse, and even less for the approval of a budget that will pass into history as the government's 'no' to farmers, farmers and fishermen, and the 'yes' to those who put sticks on wheels, take the subsidies and raise taxes. [[Applauds]] Look, Mr. Planas, this is your balance sheet. [[Show a chart]] The government has more money than ever - more money than ever - and agriculture gives it less than ever, it is more insignificant than ever. [[applause]] Only if he had kept the weight he had when governing the People's Party in 2018, with much less money, at the moment would have 1337 million euros plus Spanish farmers and farmers. But no, they have less money in the CAP, 144 million euros less in the second pillar of this budget; less purchasing power, 2 billion euros less; less European funds. Hey, there's 30 billion euros and your ministry, our ministry, you really have to lose 10%? Look, on top of that, let them exchange EUR 345 million of constant and sound money for possible loans that are not even requested from Brussels. [[Applauds]] If this were good, it would happen to other ministries, believe me, and it doesn't, Mr. Planas. Only the Ministry of Agriculture loses 16.2% by removing its financial assets. And what's serious is that this leaves all the watering upgrades in the air, Mr Planas, including those of my province, those of Palencia, and it's terrible. It is terrible because we have to see how Spain paralyzes investments while other countries such as France and Portugal use these same funds to speed them up. Look, Minister, I'm asking you to raise your voice, please. Because while you are quiet, Mrs Rivera is imposing herself and the Spanish countryside is drying up; it is drying up and sinking: EUR 7 billion will cost the agri-food sector the new green transition laws next year, how will they compete in the markets? And you are still tangled with burns and double electric billing - now in the Senate - trying to nullify what the People's Party managed to incorporate into the CAP law. [[Applauds]] Nor is the people of the sea, who need to be encouraged by consumption, need a plan to compensate for the reduction of fishing days in the Mediterranean or the ban on fishing in the 87 areas of the North-East Atlantic, and we do not see it in this budget. We do not see it because it is not there, there are only cuts, taxes and expenses, not a single item to reduce production costs, which have already multiplied by four. Or do you think farmers close chicken farms and sacrifice 83,000 more animals on a whim? No, Minister, they close because they cannot pay for the thought that you refuse to improve and they cannot pay for the energy bill that you have vetoed and refuse to lower. There is no veto that is justified, but that veto the amendment that we present to prevent farmers from having to return via IRPF the aid they have received in the face of the crisis in Ukraine - with which they are passing -, having incorporated the government through inflation more than 29 billion euros and telling us that it costs 5 million euros... Man, can't you put 5 million euros for farmers when they're collecting an extra 29 billion from all the Spaniards? [[Applauds]] It does not seem too much to me, Minister; it does not seem too much to me. He has been humble in the exhibition and I thank him, but I am not surprised; I am not surprised because after receiving his answers, - the official, the real, and the really makeup; we have received both - this is very worrying, because you have come here to tell us that the budget resolves the situation of the Spanish countryside and supports it in the resilience and the problems it has, and it turns out that in his answers, and it hurts me to say it - the real ones, of course - they answer by saying that here there is no item to secure the incomes of farmers and farmers; none to meet the gas oil, fertilizer and plastic bonuses; none to help them bear the increase in the cost of production; none to prevent them from closing small food industries; none to advance in sustainability, and the CAP demands it; none to be able to cushion the increase in taxes; none for him PERTE Agroalimentario - will be another in another ministry -; none to balance the costs of the chain. There's nothing, Mr. Planas; nothing. The bad thing is that with this you're not cheating on us, you're not cheating on the People's Party - they usually try, they don't get it - it's that you're cheating on all the farmers, farmers and fishermen in Spain. They're deceiving the Spanish agri-food sector. You have let them steal your wallet, you have given up your skills and, if you do not react after this and this information that has arrived registered from the ministry, you will have to explain to us your complicity with Mr. Sánchez by sacrificing to the Spanish rural world to bring to the end his Resistance Manual. Explain it, Mr. Planas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u213	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u214	Thank you, President. As we have seen, Mrs. Marcos is still looking for the wolf in the garden. [[Laughter and applause]] The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is the highest of the last two legislatures, despite the right of this country, with an increase of 37.3%. Meanwhile, the People's Party and VOX - that so many breast strokes occur here, in the rostrum, saying that they defend the countryside - when they rule, whether in command or directly in coalition - as in the autonomous communities of Castile and León, where Mrs. Marcos, Andalucia or Madrid is from - seems that the only thing that worries them is to put obstacles and complicate the life of our producers. And I'm going to give three examples. The first, in Castile and León, the government of the far right of the People's Party and VOX is forcing farmers to an express exclusion from traditional pastures of common ancestral uses, which are owned by the neighboring juntas and the municipalities, which so far accounted for more than 90% of the area declared by the Leonese farmers. In this way, the Government of the extreme right of Castile and León is causing them to be unable to benefit from the aid that fosters extensive livestock farming and traditional family farming in the most disadvantaged mountain areas. Second For example, in Andalusia, still ruling the People's Party with an absolute majority, it follows the dictates of the far right of VOX and welcomes its proposals in the Andalusian budgets. Moreno Bonilla maintains with the worst demagogy the most water for the super intensive irrigation of all Andalusia, also deceiving the farmers of the environment of Doñana, when the national park is dying, since all the wetlands are dry - not only the storms but also the permanent ones -, they are dying. In the face of this, this Government has allocated €95 million in extraordinary investments to alleviate drought and €38 billion to the Guadalquivir watershed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let's see if they get to work to get these budgets implemented and to give solutions to the problems of Andalusia in the face of the drought, and let Moreno Bonilla stop walking by saying that he is concerned about the drought, because the important thing is to water the golf courses, which is where his friends are. [[Protests]] Yes, yes, the golf courses of your friends. And the third example is the Community of Madrid, the Government of Ayuso. A Ayuso does not need anyone else because she, in herself, represents the extreme right: she is punishing without the advance of the CAP the farmers of certain municipalities that have not paid the corresponding amount of the exploitation rate. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you punish the producers for a problem of the Madrid Community with the municipalities. It is shameful that the Community of Madrid punishes the farmers of traditional livestock while watering millions to the lords or to the taurino chiringuito. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Faced with all this defachability, what this progressive government does is to invest 410 million euros in the budgets of 2023, with which, at the end of this legislature, we will achieve the greatest investment in the modernization of irrigation in our recent history, with more than 1 billion euros. What this Government is doing is investing so that farmers stop being energetically dependent and are at the forefront of sustainability, with self-consumption projects, with renewable energy, which we want to see implemented on all farms in the future. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and also the ladies and gentlemen of VOX - who are little here - arrive here, at the rostrum, making a grandiose speech... [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u215	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u216	Yeah, there's three or four up there. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Another South!]] He said that they come here, to the rostrum, they make a grandiose speech asking for help and respect for farmers and farmers, but, at the time of truth, here, in Congress, they do not support them and where they govern they do nothing but squeeze them and complicate our lives. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, did not support the ban on loss-making and what VOX was proposing was to legalize that abusive and illegal practice and to reverse the burden of proof by crushing it on farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, the ban on loss-selling is the result of Podemos's work; the registration of the contract - of course, minister, must be available shortly - is also thanks to Podemos' work; the unfair clauses contained in the contracts, which are null and void, is also the work of Podemos; the protection of the temporary and temporary workers in Andalusia and Extremadura through the historical reduction to 10 peonadas due to the drought crisis, is also the work of the United Podemos and, in particular, of the ministries of Ione Belarus and Yolanda Díaz, in collaboration with Mr Planas' ministry. [[Applauds]] Yeah, I'm saying it's historic because it's been down on very few occasions before, and up to 20 pedestrians. This Government has been truly courageous and aware of the drought situation we are experiencing and has dropped it for the first time to 10. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we work; this is how we work United We can; this is how this government defends the primary sector. And that is what these budgets represent: greater respect for the primary sector and greater strength and commitment to our farmers, our farmers and our livestock, and our fishermen. That's what these budgets are and that's our job. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u217	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one more year we find ourselves again in the analysis of these budgets for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, which change very little year after year, and the change is always worse. Two years ago we talked about the difficult situation for the agricultural sector in the face of the crisis of COVID; last year, the beginning of inflation and the unusual rise in production costs; and this year, the global instability caused by the war in Ukraine and an eco-radical CAP and the ruin that you all approved in Brussels against common sense. [[Applauds]] Minister, the Spanish are starving, inflation has reduced the purchase of fresh food by 57 % and many farmers, farmers and fishermen are in ruins. How is it possible that the ministry of the things of eating is the one that has least increased the item in these budgets? Why do you think he's here? Precisely, so that the agri-food sector suffers as little as possible in these very negative circumstances; you are here, at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture of Spain, to defend the agricultural and food sector in Spain, to prevent the ruin of farmers, farmers and fishermen, and to ensure that no one in Spain goes hungry. You understand that, don't you? It's very easy to understand. You are here precisely to cushion all these negative circumstances, not to serve you as an excuse. [[Applauds]] You have not been able to negotiate with your government colleagues more than an increase of 0.3%. That is all, Minister: 0.3%. This contrasts with the huge increases in the budget of other ministries, such as the Ecological Transition, the 2030 Agenda, Consumption or Equality, i.e., ideology. Those are the issues that we see that this Government is increasing; it is the ideology that matters to this Government. Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is the portfolio that loses the most, with 16.2% less, leaving the state's contribution - yes, Minister - in 1185 million euros. We already knew that this government cares more about demagogy than about eating; they care more about climate fanaticism than about farmers; they care about animalism more than about cattle farmers; they care more about the Green Pact than about fishermen; they care more about the 2030 Agenda than about our rural world. Year after year, we see in the budgets of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food their lack of interest in food sovereignty. There are 15 ministries with budgets above the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. This year, again, 88% of the resources of this budgetary policy come from European funds. Again, this year the State is making a difference in the co-financing of EAFRD funds for rural development. Mr Minister, there is room for the state to contribute extraordinary money, because it is a fund that was used to increase the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, to sustainably manage natural resources and climate action - that climate you are talking about all the time - or to achieve a balanced territorial development of rural economies and communities in the face of an alarming situation of depopulation in our rural Spain. A strategic sector for the economy of this country and for our sovereignty, such as the national agri-food sector, which accounts for 10% of Spain's gross domestic product, is settled with 1.8% of the total budget allocated by the Government for all ministries. We don't give credit. Mr Minister, the agricultural sector is going through a very difficult situation, of which you are aware, suffering from a very severe drought which has reduced production; an insurmountable increase in energy production costs, fuels, seeds, fertilizers, fertilizers; unfair competition from products coming from outside Europe; the consequences of the war in Ukraine, which have become evident in the sector and which you have previously spoken about in your intervention, and with prices at source which do not compensate for the costs of production. All of this makes the budget proposed by his ministry ridiculous. Minister, what needs to be done is to give direct aid to the agricultural and livestock sectors most affected by the crisis. Tax measures should be taken to reduce agricultural gas oil, fertilizers and plastics in the IRPF. You fill your mouth with climate emergency, but do not apply this climate catastrophe when it comes to compensating those who really suffer damage from drought, fires or hail, which are farmers. [[Applauds]] The budget for the modernisation of irrigation, as well as the new water infrastructures, which are essential for this productive sector and which make it sustainable, must be increased. What happens is that what we see and what we already know is the commitment of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party to the water infrastructure; you, who are responsible for repealing the transfer of the Ebro by the votes of the Republican Left of Catalonia and who are right now throwing dams and water infrastructure. [[Applauds]] The worst is yet to come, because we must now implement this radical common agricultural policy, which absolutely does not understand anyone in the agricultural sector, with 40% of environmental conditions, cut in amounts and aid. We want to take this opportunity to show our support to the farmers who will protest tomorrow at this common agricultural policy of ruin in Madrid, and will also do so on Saturday in Toledo. With this CAP of ruin it could not be otherwise that the budgets of agriculture are rickish and useless for the sector, a minimum contribution within general budgets, which are the budgets of the ruin of Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Chamorro. For the Socialist Group, Mr Serrano Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u220	Thank you, President. Minister, welcome. Thank you for these general state budgets. The general budgets of the State for the year 2023 are faithful reflection of what our country needs in such changing times as those we are experiencing, for a country that is in full economic, social and environmental transformation, a country project that looks to the eyes of the people, of all social strata and that puts at the center of its agenda all the politics, especially- let me say so, minister - that of the farmers, farmers and fishermen of our country. And we have proved it by sailing on a day-to-day basis, we have demonstrated it by working on a day-to-day basis, we have demonstrated it with facts, not words, with facts. We have seen it over time negotiating in the territory, achieving a common agricultural policy, which is an example for many countries in the Member States of Europe. And we have also seen it with a common agricultural policy that comes to correct those things that the People's Party did and that it will never recognize, as it is to crush small and medium-sized farmers. [[Applauds]] Well, the Socialists and this Government are coming to give back to these small and medium-sized farmers that common agricultural policy. And it is true, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I understand that they do not understand us, because we are doing a different common agricultural policy, not for those who perceive this common agricultural policy the most, but for those small and medium-sized farmers who see their incomes being questioned day after day and who need that common agricultural policy. And it is normal that you do not understand us when we talk about small and medium-sized farmers, as it is normal that you do not understand that these budgets go precisely to the whole 90% of small and medium-sized farmers, who go in that direction of strengthening those farms and livestock. Yes, Mrs. Marcos, you have a serious problem with reality. Here, in this House, we have discussed the challenges highlighted by this economic crisis in Ukraine. Here we have defended economic plans to strengthen farmers, namely 169 million euros for 19,800 milk farmers, 193 million euros for those 215 000 farmers in our country. And you know what you did? And you know what Mrs. Marcos did? Vote against so that they don't have those farmers, all those farms, that budget. Mrs Marcos, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is normal for you not to want these general state budgets, budgets that come to strengthen something as essential as agricultural insurance. By the way, you left it in question when you left the government in 2018; ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you never believed in it, because in your first term you froze the departure of the agricultural insurance and in your second term you raised it a little bit, but not enough to reach all the farmers and livestock. Why do they not now reveal something as essential as it is that for the first time our country, or, rather, that our country enjoys the maximum amount to ensure the safety of this group of farmers and farmers? Why don't they show it out? These are the general budgets of the State, such as the general budgets of the State which have a greater amount. Never before had the whole of agriculture, livestock and fishing in our country had a budget as vital as that which we have: EUR 8970 million. By the way, Mrs Marcos, far from the budget headings you allocated to agriculture, for something essential, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because you have never had a project for the whole of our country's agriculture and livestock. [[Applauds]] You have never believed in our country's livestock and agriculture. And now, Mrs. Marcos, you practice what comes to remind you of the extreme right, the worse for them, the better for the People's Party. Yes, Mrs Marcos, that's what you practice, and you don't understand that the worse for the whole primary sector, the worse for our country. That is why these budgets come to strengthen what economic injection has to be to protect the income of all farmers. These budgets come to modernise agriculture, to fight against the major challenges, such as climate change, which threatens all farms. Look, Mrs. Marcos, you come to this House and say that Mr. Planas has been robbed of his wallet. He said it literally. No, Mrs. Marcos, you have been robbed of the wallet on your land, which has been handed over to the far right. [[Applauds]] You, in Castile and León, and it is that you have a difficult task and it is to explain the political project that the People's Party has for the whole agriculture and livestock of our country, because you have a president - while you have a new leader - who has no way of justifying management in the last ten years in your autonomous community. I will ask you a question: do you know which autonomous community has lost smaller and medium-sized farms in the last ten years? Galicia. Do you know what the second one is? Castile and Lion. Two communities historically governed by the People's Party. What are you doing with this agricultural and livestock policy to maintain incomes for all these small and medium-sized farmers, farmers and the fisheries sector? They do absolutely nothing, because they have their rule that the worse for them, the better for you. I'm finishing up. Mrs Marcos, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are faced with budgets that are an opportunity for agriculture, livestock and fisheries, which come to combat these great challenges. Put on your batteries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because together we row better, but separately we are already seeing what you are doing in communities where you rule. Please, we ask you from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to shoulder the very important challenges that livestock, agriculture and fisheries face in this case. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u221	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the debate on section 22, Ministry of Territorial Policy. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I compare before this House to present to you the budget estimates of the Ministry of Territorial Policy for the financial year 2023, general state budgets that are public accounts anchored in social justice and economic efficiency. These budgets are the main antidote to uncertainty in the face of the war in Ukraine; they are the budgets against inequality and hopelessness. It is the commitment to territorial cohesion, which translates into an increase in direct contributions to the autonomous communities and local entities that will have the greatest resources in their history. These general budgets for the coming year devote 24% more to the Autonomous Communities than in the previous year. The same applies to local authorities, allocating 23 235 million to them, an increase of 5% which will undoubtedly result in the best services they provide to citizens. To this it must be incorporated that these budgets also have the resources for the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that manage the autonomous communities and the municipalities, more than 77 billion euros. These budgets are also the ones that incorporate the Government's support for the less populated areas, in particular $4,439 million to address the demographic challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, I have given you many figures in a row, but, beyond these figures, these are the budgets that bring stability to Spain, that give stability to our country and that give tranquillity to the Spanish and Spanish. [[Applauds]] These are the budgets that translate into more scholarships, better pensions, better jobs, more resources to improve people's lives. I will focus on the Ministry of Territorial Policy, which has experienced an increase of 17.7%, consolidating the basic and main lines of action. They are grouped into four large blocks. The first has to do with how to govern from dialogue and co-governance, especially with the autonomous communities. The second bloc has to do with paying attention also to the small things, in particular the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, which have never had the support that this Government has given them. The third point, the third block I want to discuss with you, is reinforcement at the municipal level. And the fourth is the best provision of the public services of the General Administration of the State in the territory and the modernization of all public administrations. I begin by talking about dialogue, collaboration with the autonomous communities and with the municipalities. In this chapter, program 922.M, which grows by 3%, responds to intense activity by the government, to the collaboration of the government with the autonomous communities and local entities, to what we have called co-governance, which is not only preached, is practiced. We have promoted twenty conferences of presidents, three times more than in the previous ten years. Also, until 2019 - I will give you a data - the average meetings of conferences of presidents plus sectoral conferences was fifty-six per year. Over the past three years, the number of meetings has not fallen by one hundred and sixty; dialogue has tripled, the relationship with the autonomous communities, also with the entities and all departments. Dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, this does not need a budget, but it is certainly a sign of identity, a different mark of doing politics that also improves when people live together and live. [[Applauds]] I am convinced that this is the way, that of collaboration between all administrations, not only because it is the most democratic, not only because it also strengthens the support of citizens in institutions, but also because it is much more effective than confrontation, litigation or dispute. We have also made progress in other discussions leading us to other instruments, such as appeals to the Constitutional Court. There are tools, democracy also gave them to us, such as the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which asks us to speak before we confront each other, to speak before we question each other, to try to agree. And in the spirit of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, I can tell you that in this legislature the State's appeals against autonomy have been reduced by 67 per cent compared to the previous stage. We have reached 141 regulatory collaboration agreements with all the autonomous communities, avoiding so many other remedies to the Constitutional Court. It does not have a budget, but it certainly improves coexistence. On the other hand, we will continue to push the bilateral commissions with the autonomous communities, yes, because Spain is diverse and in its diversity is also its greatness. This year, bilateral commissions have been revived, for example, with the Principality of Asturias, which had not met for eighteen years to discuss matters of concern to the Principality and which also fall within the competence of the State. In the bilateral framework, we have improved relations with the Generalitat de Catalunya. It is important to have recovered normality, dialogue, institutionalization of the bilateral commission and thus comply with the statute and with the competitive progress after a decade of paralysis. We have also strengthened the transfer of functions and services in several communities. To quote the last, the management of the coast, first, with the Canary Islands and, recently, with the Balearic Islands. We have also agreed to share the management of the new generation benefits launched by this Government, as was the minimum living income with Navarra and the Basque Country. And I told them that we meet all the realities of this country, and certainly a special reality of our country is that we are the southern border of Europe in contact with the African continent. I want to focus now on those actions that have had to do with the autonomous cities, with Ceuta and with Melilla. We have included in programme 942 a budget line that responds to that commitment for the comprehensive socio-economic development plans of Ceuta and Melilla, which we manage directly from the ministry but which commit all the departments, which involves an investment for both cities of 700 million euros, the largest investment that had ever been made by a government with the autonomous cities. Without a doubt, a clear commitment to your future, to collaboration. It has also been the result of a participatory process that I want to thank the ceutians and the Melillens; a process that looks at the future from the perspective of a new economic model based on the green, digital, circular economy, promoting infrastructures, responding to the demand for public housing and strengthening public services, and very important, thinking about the next generations, with a stake in vocational training for those young people who are looking there today, on their land, for possibilities for the future. Ceuta and Melilla, as I told them, had never been as present on the agenda of the Government of Spain as they are now. This is a plan that not only has a budget, it can be monitored for its compliance, and we have also incorporated the autonomous cities in that follow-up. The Commission will meet for the first time in the morning to do this task. The third bloc has to do with strengthening municipalism, politics from the very near, strengthening local administrations. To this end, we have incorporated a budget of EUR 183 million, 23% more than in the previous financial year, with particular reference to the modernisation of local government and its digitisation. Improvements have to do with the provision of digital public services, also with guarantees in the field of cybersecurity. I thank the local authorities who are attending these calls very diligently and knowing about the structural difficulties. The Ministry of Territorial Policy is working together with the National Institute of Statistics on the modernization of an important tool for municipalities, the modernization of the municipal standard of inhabitants who manage the municipalities. I had the opportunity to share the details of this project with the members of the FEMP during the last meeting of the National Commission of Local Administration and I am pleased to move forward that this initiative continues and that it will improve the functioning of numerous public policies. The project in which we work envisages creating a new, fully digitized standard, which will allow citizens to register with all guarantees from their mobile phone or personal computer. We also continue with the collaboration with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and with our commitment to increase a budget that was reduced to them in the last years of the Government of the previous Executive. We also recognize the unique efforts, the stakes to grow since the union, which have represented the ambitious initiative of the municipalities of Don Benito and Villanueva, and for this we have also reserved investment for the dependencies of the new municipality resulting from this merger. It is symbolic, but it represents the value that the Government attaches to this effort to unite all the strengths in order to respond to the citizenry. The easy thing in politics is to stir up discord, the difficult thing, on the other hand, is to build agreements and this merger, which is the first one recorded in our country in municipalities of this dimension, is an example of unity and agreement that we must congratulate, recognize and ask to set an example. On the other hand, we also maintain a specific funding of 30 million euros from the Teruel Investment Fund, known as FITE, which emerged three decades ago, to overcome the structural imbalances in the province of Teruel and that today we can say that since then this province has received almost 1200 million, which have helped to place above the per capita income of the national average. This is the commitment of the Government of Spain for Teruel, because we do not want to remain in mourning, but to get to grips with the work by providing all the necessary resources. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm making a point. I would also like to make a special mention of our relationship with municipalism and the collaboration in the management of natural disasters. Regrettably, there have been few that this Government has had to manage over the years. We have seen the explosion of a volcano and the result of effective management from the closeness and hand of all administrations. We've seen floods and fires. Of all this collaboration and the involvement of all the administrations we can assume that we have literally managed to save lives. We pointed this out at the last Conference of Presidents and the results have already been achieved. We have launched a new national plan for risk reduction in response to these disasters, with a horizon of 2035. We have just approved it unanimously between the Government and all the autonomous communities. It is a plan that will allow us to get ahead of these natural disasters, in many cases linked to climate change, which I see many of your ladies and gentlemen are still joking. What is benefiting the municipalities is the better management of these resources and funds with which the Government collaborates and the reduction in the time of their processing. Yes, we have managed more catastrophes than ever before and have done so in the shortest possible time. I'll tell you what. In 2015, the processing of these files took place in an average of twenty-six months. Now, we are just doing it in nine months; a government that also manages effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, the presence of the Government and the General Administration of the State throughout the territory is a guarantee of certainties of citizenship in the day-to-day management. That is why we are also returning to the citizenry those cuts in the public employees who serve in the territory the citizenry from the General Administration of the State, with special attention in the delegations and sub-delegations of government to all the procedures that take place in the foreign services and offices. We welcome this summer's agreement to provide them with almost 300 new staff, 300 new people serving those who come to our country and who want to work, who come regularly to contribute to the Spanish economy as well. Also, in the context of combating gender-based violence and from the proximity of the State General Administration to the territory, the Government considers it a priority to strengthen the services provided by the coordination units against violence against women. We will focus on awareness-raising, prevention and training. You will allow me this week, which we commemorate on 25 November and the fight against gender-based violence, to give recognition from here to those people who, on behalf of the General Administration of the State, care from the closeness and closeness of those women who are today attacked and raped by sexist acts. [[Applauds]] We also cater for the well-being of public employees and energy saving, commitment to energy efficiency, incorporating in the general budgets a small item to serve public buildings. We strengthen the presence of the General Administration of the State in the territory and we also do so with another way of governing, knowing that Spain is large and diverse, that in any corner of Spain there are strengths and intelligence and that it is easier for citizens to feel involved with the project that is of everyone when we approach it. We have created and launched an important procedure for the deconcentration of the new bodies that as a result of the recovery plan and the European funds we are deploying throughout the territory; a procedure that has been initiated with the Spanish Space Agency and also with the Agency for the Supervision of Artificial Intelligence. I must tell you that we are gratefully surprised by the initiative, the enthusiasm that has aroused both in the municipalities, in the autonomous communities as well as in the university, academic, research and also in the business sector. These procedures have involved a total of 35 applications for the two agencies, from 14 autonomous communities, as I say, accompanied by universities, training centres and also businesses. Undoubtedly, this way of sharing the State, of creating opportunities, is being very well received throughout the territory and we congratulate ourselves on that. And if Mohammed doesn't go to the mountain, the mountain has to go to Mohammed, and that's why we're also going to overcome the problems that are generated in small municipalities, which have to do with the mobility problems, which have to do with the digital divide, which is ultimately about facilitating the processes and the life of citizens. We have launched a project to bring the General Administration of the State closer to the smaller municipalities. We will reach 3200 municipalities in our country to deal with such everyday matters, as ordinary as the issuance of the electronic certificate - there are still many citizens who have problems accessing this procedure -, access to work life or the change of ownership of their vehicle. Our goal is no other than to make life easier for the citizenry and, no doubt, from closeness that is always better. Ladies and gentlemen, the commemoration of 6 December is approaching, where we take stock of the rules we have given ourselves, of the constitutional framework, and in the territorial model, we have to congratulate ourselves, it has worked, the state of autonomy is in full form. With collaboration, co-governance and cohesion has proved to be more useful than ever, especially in adversity. We have shown that the instrument, dialogue, is fundamental. If every day we, as citizens, have to negotiate, we do so in the social sphere, in the professional sphere, even in the family sphere, why are we not able to do so, why do we not always put that requirement in the relationship between public administrations or political formations? It's the best way to live together. It is no more than a matter of being up to the citizenry. I confess to you that it is much more laborious to reach an agreement than to appeal, but I am proud to belong to a Government that puts dialogue, agreement and agreement ahead of chrispation, disagreement and clumsiness. [[Applauds]] And this, territorial cohesion, advancing the agreement, is not only a political priority of this government, which is. Ladies and gentlemen, this inspires the constitutional mandate, it is a requirement in our democratic system; hence the importance of closing differences and linking them to the common objective. The challenge is exciting. It is making our country a better country, making Spain a better Spain. I would like to reiterate the appreciation that other members of the Government have expressed to all political formations that make this possible. We make Spain better when we dignify wages and jobs, we make Spain better when we give opportunities to all young people, come from where their families come from, with scholarships and guarantee of progression in their studies. We make Spain better when we guarantee a higher qualification of the workers, betting on the Vocational Training. We make a better Spain when we give tranquillity to the pensioners who have given us today's Spain. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is also thanks to the majority support of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u224	Good night. Thank you very much, Madam President and Minister. Firstly, as a representative of the Joint Group, I support the amendments tabled by all the members of my group in this section. As I have also told your cabinet-mates, in the Regionalist Party of Cantabria we want a budget and we want it, firstly, for the specific interests of Cantabria and, secondly, for the general interest of all Spaniards. [[The Lord]] This budget meets Cantabria. Also, even if you have things that can be improved, we always say that it is better to have a budget for 2023 than not to have any. In the debate on the amendments, I have to say that, although we have not personally tabled any in this section, as is customary in the Joint Group, we use our interventions to defend what other speakers are doing in other sections. I don't have any specifics, but it's all territorial politics. Finally, the amendments we have tabled are logical and just. There are few, but they are realistic and we have reached agreements with the Government. The most important have been accepted. In addition to what was mentioned this morning in the section of Finance, which I will not repeat, the Department of Transport has collected the underground of the railways as they pass through Torrelavega, the cover of the railways in Maliaño and the suppression of various steps at the level that pass through the Community of Cantabria. There is still a pending amendment to give the A-73 motorway, Aguilar-Burgos, a larger supply for the first section of Aguilar de Campoo, which has an exit that is chaotic and that has also remained in the middle of two sections and is something fundamental for the Cantabria connection with Madrid. This is also territorial cohesion. There is the creation of a new link in the A-67 in the municipality of Cieza. We have another amendment in industry to improve the vials of the La Vega polygon in Reinosa, which is a city that needs support in the industry because it had an industry that is being dismantled through SEPES; and finally, the addition to an additional provision on the Ports Act, especially to facilitate the transport of electric vehicles. But since I have the opportunity to address you personally, I would like to remind you that at the last appearance of the President of the Government we asked you to convene a sectoral conference. To you, who is competent in this matter, and also competent to make the call, I would like to remind you. The last time I had occasion in this rostrum to ask you to convene a sectoral conference was successful. I hope that this time you will speak with Mr Sánchez and also succeed in convening this Conference of Presidents that we are looking forward to, especially because of the chaos that is being organized in the tributes of some autonomous communities. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u225	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u226	Thank you, President. According to the Minister for Territorial Policy, the objectives of these budgets and of territorial policy in general are social cohesion and cohesion of all territories. However, in the analysis of these accounts we can deduce the scale of preferences that this government has, which clearly have nothing to do with territorial cohesion or the equality of the Spaniards, regardless of the territory where they reside. First of all, we must also say that we are faced with a ministry that in its current configuration and competencies is more cosmetic than anything else and that serves mainly to increase the number of advisors and high-paying positions of taxpayers. Indeed, we cannot fail to point out the gradual increase in the number of advisers dedicated to this ministry. These are trusted personnel who are hand-picked and who cease when the high office that has appointed him ceases, who have carried out no tests or opposition whatsoever and who do not compete in an assessment of academic or professional merits. At the close of December 31, 2021, there were 196 senior positions, which in any case amounted to four times more than the previous year, thus entering the ranking of the highest number of senior positions and advisers in the Ministry of Territorial Policy. Only in this ministry - which, as we say, because of its current configuration and its performance is more cosmetic than anything else - do we have a high-ranking item of 6 million euros. But, in addition, we find again in the budgets great imbalances - we have already denounced it in previous interventions - especially in favour of the communities governed by the parliamentary partners of this Government or by the parties themselves that make up it. In this way, we also check the branches and phobias to which this Government has accustomed us. In this regard - as has already been mentioned in previous interventions - the most affected communities are Murcia and Castile and León, which are the only ones in which investment decreases compared to last year's draft budgets. The first has seen its investment lost up to 3.6% compared to 5.5% foreseen in the previous budget; and Castile and León has increased from 997.5 million to 955 million by this 2023. They are regions punished for depopulation, at least Castile and León, and lack significant and sufficient investments that promote economic development and, in general, help to alleviate the problem of emptied Spain. Since we are also talking about territorial policy, cohesion and equality, it is again time to point out that privileges against equality are being increased when, for example, a transfer of €38.6 billion is envisaged to cover the social security deficit hole, and this must logically be done against the taxes of Spanish taxpayers. Why does it deepen this in inequality? Well, look, because these nearly 39 billion, which is the difference between income from contributions and total expenditure on pensions - which, by the way, will rise by 11.4 after the revaluation with the CPI -, hide a huge transfer of money from all Spanish taxpayers to support the pension system also in the Basque Country and Navarre, communities that do not contribute taxily or by far in the same way to the system as the rest. But, of course, these additional 39 billion, as I say, are not covered by the Basque and Navarro taxpayers except through the quota, the amount of which, as we have already denounced on countless occasions, will hardly be reviewed in the light of this extra transfer of tax revenues the Social Security coffers, so that it will be the taxpayers of the rest of Spain who also paid the proportional share of the increase in pensions in the Basque and Navarra Country. In other words, we are faced with a pure subsidy from some autonomous communities to others that already have much more favorable funding, without any other reason than the purchase of electoral support in Congress. That is why the quota, its negotiation, its calculation, is not transparent. This is not territorial cohesion, this is not equality. The transfer of this transfer and the new assumption of these expenses by the whole of the taxpayers of the rest of Spain should - and we have repeated it to the satisfaction - also carry with it the revision of the quota, which does not seem to be much less in the forecasts of the Government or the ministry, much more interested in granting these privileges and in negotiating new ones to obtain the parliamentary support that it needs. The minister of the bilateral tables has spoken, the bilateral negotiating table with the Government of Catalonia, that not with the Catalans, since, like all the communities, we have our own headquarters of negotiation in the autonomous parliaments; table is that we know that it only serves to prioritize the investments demanded by the Independentist Government of Catalonia, or speaker to demand the limitation of the fiscal autonomy of the rest of the autonomous communities, while the Government of Catalonia asks exactly the opposite for that community. Not to mention the amendments to the letter of the Criminal Code for those who keep saying that they are going to do it again, and that they are not only not repenting, but also feeling proud of their coup. It is therefore clear that the Government does not pursue the objectives of these budgets; that is, their justification in this principle of territorial cohesion of the different territories of our country. In fact, we see quite the opposite, and it is something anyone can see, an attack on the equality and social cohesion of all the Spaniards, with the sole purpose of maintaining parliamentary support from those who want to stop being the same as the rest of the Spaniards and do not contribute at all to the territorial cohesion of our country. It is clear that these budgets put Sánchez's political survival in the government ahead of the state sense, something that even many of the PSOE's territorial leaders denounce, because they know that socialist voters in their territories cannot understand and do not share it. For that reason and for so many other reasons, not only political, but also and fundamentally economic, these general budgets should be rejected, which is what we are going to do with our vote in this House. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u227	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u228	Thank you, President. Thank you, minister. You have talked a lot about dialogue, in fact, you talk a lot about dialogue, but you do not practice it, at least with everyone. It seems they only like to talk to those who tell them what you want to hear. And I wonder, Minister, if that can be considered a dialogue. Many citizens of Catalonia ask us what happens in Catalonia, what happens to investments, what happens to trains; and what happens in Catalonia is that, surely, there is a lot of dialogue, but there is no money, Minister. The Spanish government does not pay Catalonia, the money does not arrive in Catalonia. Many headlines arrive, many promises arrive, when the citizens of Catalonia pay more than 50 billion euros in taxes. [[pronounce words in Catalan]] To other territories, to other autonomous communities comes the money? Yeah, the other territories do get the money. Of the investments planned in Catalonia for Renfe and Adif, you have paid only 24%; 153% have paid for it in Madrid. This, Minister, is neither efficient nor cohesive. You have invested in Catalonia 95 euros per inhabitant; in Madrid, 309 euros per inhabitant. You have opened 84 kilometers of new roads in Madrid, zero in Catalonia; twenty new stations in Madrid, five in Catalonia. This, Minister, is not good service. In Madrid they have new trains. Are there new trains in Catalonia too? No, it's more like, I'm gonna explain how this works. Do you want new trains in Catalonia, the Spanish governments tell us? Yeah, we want new trains. Then, you have to sign a contract, in which you undertake to operate with the same operator for the next ten years. That is, if in Catalonia we want new trains, as in the rest of the autonomous communities, we have to endure for ten more years Renfe's disastrous service. We also have the Mediterranean corridor, which affects many territories, Minister. I also explain how the story that they have mounted in Madrid on the Mediterranean corridor works. First, Europe gives them a touch, because the Government of Spain does not comply. When they are given a touch, the government in charge, whether socialist or of the People's Party, promises that now it is, that this time it is. If there is luck, they open some stretch or open some third way or third thread, and they do it as if it were a triumph, when the third thread is a dip that is not done in any other state of Europe. You cover the file until the next touch of Europe. And so not two years, not five, not seven, not ten, not fifteen, not twenty-six years late; six governments, not eight ministers. As early as 2011, Zapatero and Blanco told us that the Mediterranean corridor would be completed by 2020. In 2013, the PP announced that the batteries would be placed with the Mediterranean corridor. In 2017, Serna announced that the Mediterranean corridor would end in 2023. In 2021, Minister Ábalos told us that they would finish the Mediterranean corridor in 2025. And now, Sánchez and Sánchez, Minister Sánchez and President Sánchez, tell us that the Mediterranean corridor will be over by 2026. And so we have been, as I have told you, twenty-six years; and something tells me that before the general elections some section of the Mediterranean corridor will be inaugurated. In addition, every three or four years the government in charge joins in the actions that some entrepreneurs do to claim the Mediterranean Corridor. You, who do not comply, join in the picture of those who claim to comply with the Mediterranean Corridor, and, among all, make believe once again, year after year, all the citizens that this time yes, that now they are going to put the batteries in the Mediterranean Corridor. But the reality is that, so far, of the seventeen sections of the Mediterranean corridor, you, both of you, PP, socialists or Podemos, have only finished three in twenty-six years. Independence and visca Catalunya is to claim a Catalonia free, rich, full and competitive. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] I'm finishing up. We ask you to stop lying. You don't have or have ever had any interest in the Mediterranean corridor or the competitiveness of Catalonia... [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] And I say this, because this is not going to be independent or not independent; it is going to be that the money of the Catalans does not reach the citizens of Catalonia; it is going to be good to allow us to come here every day and year after year to beg what is ours, and it is that the citizens of Catalonia get the money and pay what is theirs. [[Finish your speech in Catalan]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u229	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Betoret Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u230	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by defending the amendments tabled by my group in section 22. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the general budgets for 2023 for Section 22, Territorial Policy. Go ahead and with a sensible and normal government - I know this is asking a lot about you - we would not be having this debate on this section. I say this because the subjects that constitute the competences of this ministry are scarce, if not virtually none. If we add to this that this portfolio not only has a minister, but also has a secretariat of State and a stack of advisers, we can only conclude that this is a major waste and waste. In the almost four years since the creation of this ministry, back in 2018, four headlines have passed through this portfolio and none has solved any of the problems that the autonomous communities, the municipalities and the presence of the General Administration of the State in the territory. I suppose that of the General Administration of the State in the territory says today about the withdrawal of the Civil Guard of Navarra, but, the truth is, today was not the day. From the point of view of legislative initiatives, the government has been promising a new law of local rule bases since 2018, but that project must be in the same drawer as the autonomic financing project with which so many territories and deputies have deceived in this House. This year's budget is a classic of the government's accounts: all illusion, propaganda and marketing, hiding the reality of Spain. He referred specifically to the departure of Ceuta and Melilla, in which you spoke of 700 million. If the ministry's budget is 590 million, I suppose it will at some point explain where it gets the 700 million. Accounts that are more tales than tales, stories that nobody believes, you don't believe them yourself; but, despite that, you remain engaged in error because your sectarianism does not allow you to accept reality. A reality that is silly and that ends up being imposed, as has happened in the last budgets, in which any forecast was exceeded before its approval. One thing that also shares these stories with those of last year is that they don't care if they're unreal because the execution is going to be, as in the present case, absolutely low. I say this because, according to a reply from this ministry to this Member, by 21 October less than 25% of the budget had been implemented. With this execution data you don't care about these or other budgets, because everything is a big lie, like everything you say. The other common denominator of this year's budgets with last year's is that last year you changed budgets for prisoners. This year they have decided to continue with this, but going a step further to reform the sedition crimes and, almost certainly, the embezzlement crimes; this to get their independent partners to allow them to exhaust the legislature and that Mr Sánchez can fulfill his dream of being President-in-Office of the European Union for greater glory. At this point, we already understand that of the 'Manual of Resilience'; forgiveness, manual of resistance. Moreover, I believe that the term resilience in politics was invented by you to endure in the government at all costs against everything and against everyone, regardless of Spain or the Spanish. Thus, from disaster to disaster, from ruin to ruin to total ruin, which is the mark of the house of the last socialist governments, and that of Mr Sánchez is not going to be an exception. They are budgets that come to bring more taxes, more debts, more deficit, more frustration and to generate less consensus, less execution, less transparency and co-governance, if ever there was, which I already say no to. These budgets show that you are teachers of deception, and what happens is that these deceptions tell you with a lot of sincerity and a lot of flow, as the moderns would say. The people's government has the highest overall unemployment rate and the second highest youth and female unemployment rate in the eurozone. Today, thanks to their failed budgets, Spanish families are 6% poorer than in 2019. All of this is the result of a management disaster, executed thinking of balancing to stay in government at all costs, and whatever happens. If not, let them ask Mr Marlaska after what happened in Melilla or Mrs Montero with the law of 'yes it is', with the fourteen sexual aggressors at liberty after this famous law, of which they have the courage to celebrate their approval by coining a tenth of the National Lottery as the vice president would say, all very coherent and very cool. [[shows the image of a tenth of National Lottery with the slogan '#Solo Yes Yes'.-Applause]] And if we talk about the lottery, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the budgets, last year Sánchez's lottery touched Henri Parot and Txapote, among many others. This year, with these budgets, Sanchez's lottery has touched, among other fourteen, the professor convicted of abusing four minors to six years in prison and who will only serve one year and three months, or the three of Son Castelló who assaulted a young woman in a polygon in a group and who served a three-year sentence and who with the new legislative pearl that you have passed you will be reduced to just one year, two of them already at liberty. Madam Minister, this is not frivolizing, it is the sad reality that you have given us with this legislative reform. With these budgets they will also be lucky in Sánchez's lottery prizes the seditious and, probably, the embezzlers. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the lottery to be played by all the Spaniards, and that is why we are proposing that we play a very special number this year; a number that will certainly solve all the problems of the Spaniards. That's what I'm showing you: Let Sanchez go. [[shows the image of a tenth of National Lottery]] [[Applauds]] Let him go now! It is the biggest prize that can be played by Spain. I know that thanks to the pacts with some nationalists, the independenceists, the friends of terrorists and other distraught nationalists, like those of Teruel Existe Compromís, this number this year is not even in the drum...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u231	Your Honor, you must finish. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u232	But, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that next year will be the number awarded, fortunately for Spain and for all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u233	Mr Mena Arca has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u234	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start with the obvious. And the obvious thing is that these budgets are not only good for Spain, they are good for all its territories and for all its peoples. This Government has fulfilled what was proposed from the outset: to devote more resources to the territories to consolidate territorial cohesion. We have done so by allocating 17% more resources without forgetting the central importance of the municipalities in this country, since they are the ones who know the needs of the citizens most closely. That is why we have also increased the allocations for local governments by almost 70%. However, if this is good news for Spain and its plurality, it is also bad news for the right, because the more peace and territorial cohesion there is, the less votes you can get, and that is exactly what hurts fear. It is only necessary to see the speech that the ultra-right, the ultra-right and the already extinct ultra-liberal extreme right have had in recent years: they use Catalonia and sometimes also Euskadi to draw votes elsewhere, to crush some to draw revenue with others. On the other hand, this coalition government came with the will to resolve the territorial conflict inherited by the People's Party. And here goes a spoiler: we're getting it. Just as with these budgets, I remind you of some data that are good for Spain and Catalonia, but bad for the right. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u235	Your Honor, just a moment, please. Excuse me. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u236	Thank you, President. In October 2017 the Rajoy government decided to use batons and togas against Catalonia. What did you get? Shoot support for independence up to historical peaks. In October 2022 the coalition government decided to use dialogue and solutions with Catalonia. What have we got? Today we have managed that the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain is no longer among the main concerns of the Spaniards. We said that pardons were the solution to reduce the conflict, the right-wing criticized and opposed, but it was shown that we were right. We said that the dialogue table was the solution to bring Spain and Catalonia closer, and the right, Catalan and Spanish, criticized it and opposed it, but it was shown that we were right. We said that the repeal of the old-fashioned sedition crime was the solution to modernise the state and cohesive territory, and the right-wing criticized and opposed it, but also in this we are proving that we were right. Ladies and gentlemen, time always gives reason to the common sense of things. The best thing you could do is leave that obsession you have against Catalonia in a drawer. It hurts the whole country and it hurts you too. Your obsession does not allow you to see what is the real danger to the territorial cohesion that exists at the moment in our country, and it is nothing other than the policies that you carry out in the Madrid Community. The secession of the rich is the real territorial threat we have today in Spain. In this region governed by Mrs Ayuso you can have a scholarship to study only if you have more than 100,000 euros in the bank; otherwise, you have to be in debt. In this region the doctor will treat you in person if you have a private insurance; if not, he will treat you with a plasma, remembering the good times of Mr. Rajoy. In this region you can go to emergencies only if you are lucky and the one that exists in your neighborhood has not closed; if not, you must take the car and move tens of kilometers. In this region you are forgiven if you belong to 1% of the privileged; if not, it is up to you to pay so that they continue to have these privileges. This is how you have managed to create a tax haven for the rich in Madrid and a hell of public services for those who are not rich. [[Applauds]] That is precisely their territorial model. However, it is true that, while Mrs Ayuso goes out to defend the rich, Madrid also goes out to defend the public. It is only necessary to see the images of the mobilization of a few weeks ago: half a million people went out on the street to show that those who attack public health attack 99% of society. [[Applauds]] That's what the streets of Madrid told Mrs. Ayuso. Listen to that message from the street, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. Listening to that half a million Madriders is their last chance. But you continue to use the trio of wilds above all that happens in Madrid. Doesn't public health work? ETA. Isn't there enough public resources? Catalonia. Is climate change out of the way? Communism. That's the trio of wilds used by the People's Party along with the right-wings every time they run out of reason. So, ladies and gentlemen, the only secession that threatens us right now is the secession of the rich promoted and driven by Mrs Ayuso's policies, which seems to be more focused on removing Mr Feijoo's chair from the care of the Madridns and the Madridns. And as we have done so far in this coalition government, ladies and gentlemen, we do have the solution to that secession of the rich: more fiscal justice, more redistribution and more territorial empathy. That is what these budgets have in the area of territorial policy. If you listen to us, ladies and gentlemen, you will see that we are right and that this country is doing much better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u238	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for coming to this House and also for the explanations you have given us regarding Section 22, Territorial Policy. We said last year that his ministry was deflated: he was stripped of the powers of public administration, public governance, public service and everything related to transparency and good governance, and he was left with the powers that he did not have many years ago of general direction of territorial policy coordination. They really only have powers of proposal and execution in this field and of relations with autonomous communities and local entities. Therefore, within this ruin budget, your budget section has virtually nothing to do with anything. It is not an investor budget, almost everything is chapter 1, staff expenditure and current expenditure, and, as a novelty, what has explained to us from the plan for Ceuta and Melilla, but where you say 700 million, in the budget only 21.5 million are collected. I don't know where they got the 700 million. [[Applauds]] Oh, well!, to several years, as you have planned. In the 2023 budget - I have just checked - 21.5 million come, not 700, which is different, very different. Otherwise, it's more of the same. They keep the 6 million euros for friends of government delegates, which is the third year I've been reporting it, because it's a scandal, a shame. As little has appeared this year in this Congress I will tell you the news. My parliamentary group tabled a non-legislative proposal to regulate the maximum number of advisers in government delegations, without limit; we left it open and therefore let them set a maximum number. His Government opposed and the majority of Frankenstein who supported him dropped the non-law proposal. In view of this we present another non-law proposal, in this case so that at least the twenty-one friends of the delegate of the Government of Andalusia were reduced, because it is a shame; moreover, they are not known. They are not known at the headquarters of the Delegation of the Government of Andalusia. The Socialist spokesman on the Commission told us: it is that eight provinces and there are seven sub-delegations, plus the delegation, and therefore they touch less than three per province. And it gave us the impression that they were in the sub-delegations, which would be a fraud of law, because the current legislation prohibits sub-delegates from having advisers. Then if they're using government delegates, they're in law fraud. But, of course, why does Castilla and León, which has nine provinces, one more, have only five advisers? They play half-advisor by province. Then the argument, I don't know, falls by its own weight. [[Applauds]] That non-legislative proposal was also not successful, and then we said that they would carry out a study of the workloads of government delegations and new job and function relationships that might be done by staff. We told them that it might have to be determined that it had to be made by career staff. And we did not object to the opening of the coverage of those posts for free appointment, so that when another delegate of the Government was able to Caesar and appoint another career official, in accordance with the legally established procedure. Nor have they done anything: they have neither studied nor changed the employment relationship. You guys look very comfortable with your chiringuito. A year ago, from this very rostrum, I told him that I gave up giving me the resumes of others, but that I gave the twenty-one of Andalusia. Not only has he not given them to me, but he is failing to comply with a final judgment of the Supreme Court, which is very serious. Because my group has taken them to the courts and the Supreme Court has handed down a final judgment that obliges them to hand over the curricula we had requested. [[Applauds]] They started sending them to them, and when they had already sent us the third package, which was that of Catalonia, someone ordered in the ministry that no more packages of government delegations will be sent to us. And if you don't know it, from this moment on you'll find out, because you're going to do a year of the sentence in March and at the end of January as you haven't fulfilled we're going to demand responsibilities I'm not going to bitteren the turret and I'm going to let Christmas and Kings pass, but at the end of January we have responsibilities. [[laughs]] We all know that the autocrat laughs at the separation of powers, but then he washes his hands and leaves them lying down, and the person directly responsible for the non-compliance will be you, and as they disable it for non-compliance, I don't know what they're going to do. [[Applauds]] Finally, I say to him that at the end of January we demanded responsibilities for non-compliance with a final judgment of the Supreme Court. You ask citizens to comply with sentences, for example, because it is the worst thing that a ministry does not comply with a final ruling of the Supreme Court. [[Applauds]] My group is concerned about the drift of this Government, which is endangering the unity of Spain by the handovers to the blackmails of the separatists, the coups, the billionaires. And, actually, it's a shame, because what didn't get the ETA with 857 murders is getting it now for Mr. Sanchez's assignments. That is tremendous and causes much damage to the unity of the homeland and to the unity of all Spaniards. It's going to take many years in that fracture that you're causing. I conclude, because the President is going to take the floor. You said earlier that these budgets are the antidote to the war in Ukraine. I don't know what your budget section has to do with the war in Ukraine, but good. [[Laughter]] For us it is the budgets of ruin, and again it is believed that this government is more concerned about the welfare of politicians and their friends than about the well-being of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u239	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Andres Barea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u240	President, Members and Members, good afternoon. I am the last, but we are going to discuss section 22, Territorial Policy, to which they give so little importance. [[rumors]] Thank you, Minister, for your explanations and for making it clear, clearly, that territorial policy is of great importance - today it has been demonstrated here - in governance and of great importance for coexistence. In this section the right has coincided: calls for the elimination of the Ministry of Territorial Policy. Here's why it will be. They don't believe in territorial politics. The PP has done so with vague justifications, although it could have put all those justifications that Mr Betoret has taken from the campaign slogan. He could have put them in, but they have given vague justifications: that the ministry has no rank. Citizens, you haven't given any justification, and you haven't said that, have you? Come on, he didn't say. He's been here a while trying to justify something they haven't justified in the amendment. But, anyway, the quota and the foral tax is a constitutional issue, you should know. And then we have VOX, which always goes to the same. [[The lady]] He didn't do anything, he didn't ask for anything, he didn't work. [[Rumors]] If you want to answer you that since 2004 there has been the same number of staff in all government delegations, because the decree so determines, and that threats also have a price; you have to calculate threats also when you are here. [[Applauds]] But the lords of VOX have not been working, because besides not wanting to work they are not in this line, but in non-compliance with the Law of Historical Memory. They were crying to Queipo de Llano, sir to remind him of the invocations against women, calling for rape against women. [[applause]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] It's a shame. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u241	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u242	But the PP didn't stay behind and wanted to be on the same level. They have also named a French general on a street, Millán Astray. And I ask you, gentlemen of the PP, Mr Betoret, do you believe in the autonomous state or not? Or are they getting so close to VOX that they're getting confused? Does the plurinational state belong to the PP of Feijóo? Because Mr. Elias Bendodo, who went out on all televisions yesterday, in Andalusia said that the PP of Feijóo defends Spain as a plurinational state. Hala, here, what do you think? [[Laughter and applause]] But since things are not working for the PP, because they are not working for him, yesterday he came out on a trumpet, to go on television - as a media said, so that his grandmother could see it - and they said that we have also given the Criminal Code to the beaters - of course not! - and that we opened the door to the rapists. Come on, we're the worst of the worst. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: Yes! Yes!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u243	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u244	You've even dared... [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u245	Wait a minute, Mrs. Andres. I'm asking for silence, please. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u246	He has dared to call for the rebellion of the socialists against the Sanchists, as if we were not the same. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] I fully agree with President GarcíaPage. How desperate you are! So Feijoo is no longer Feijoo, he no longer remembers to speak Galician. Recognizing territorial diversity and not recognizing cultural diversity and the great linguistic importance is social ignorance, which makes them totally incapable of governing. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] They have spoken about the government delegations, the major functions of the government delegations, the immigration aid offices, the integration income - in Andalusia they have allocated half a million the Andalusian subdelegations, which have benefited 1.4 million Andalusians - and the very important gender violence offices, which you deny. Do you know how many women died in 2022? Thirty-eight murdered women, two murdered children, and twenty-four orphans. Because of this denialist attitude and against the freedom of women, they are absolutely incapable of ruling. [[Applauds]] It appears to be concerned about the implementation of funds. Well, it's very clear, you just have to read the budgets. Three of the seven programmes are from European funds, 391 million in three years and 192 for this year alone. Speaking of European funds, what is the role of the PP in the European Union? Because that's important. [[Mrs. Montesino de Miguel utters words that are not perceived]] Yes, yes, Macarena, yes. [[Laughter]] They are always on the move, denouncing Spain, always failing, what is most serious. Aznar preferred the Azores, Rajoy did not go, and end of the appointment, and the Casado-Feijóo binomial has made failed trips, complaints and some photo, some. By the way, there is another complaint that goes wrong in the European Union Yesterday the European Parliament took the PP's move to censor the law of yes yes. Another one. I'm telling you. What an eye you have! Truth is, what an eye they have and how ridiculous they do. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]] One of the great fallacies is that the Ministry of Territorial Policy is a placement office. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u247	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u248	I am not going to tell you the growth or the difference, but I am going to tell you people in the autonomous communities: Dolores Moreno, sister of the president of Andalusia, plugged in; the lawyer in the ERE, director general of Justice of Andalusia; in Castile and León, the former director of the media - of the Episcopal Conference, eh!-; the cousin of the vice president, related to the Punic; in Madrid, Toni Cantó, international linguist of the Castilian, brothers cousins, and now the mother. [[protests]] Look! The thing has... [[Laughs.-Protests.-Applause.]] In conclusion, there is Abascal, who with twenty-three young men already paid an official salary in the sub-delegation of Álava...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u249	Mrs. Andres, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u250	...and then in a foundation without activity. I'd like to see her work life, I'd like to see her. Minister, get to work. [[Prolonged applause from Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Andres. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. [[Mr Bal Francés asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u252	Under Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows each Member to claim its application, I would like to claim the application of Rule 117 of our Rules of Procedure of Congress. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain briefly.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u253	You have one minute, Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u254	This morning, at 10:50, this letter of 22 November was recorded in which the Government vetoed a number of amendments, on which there were compromise amendments. [[shows a document]] Rule 117 of our Rules of Procedure stipulates that amendments must be kept alive in order for each parliamentary group to debate whatever it wants in plenary. These amendments have not been kept alive in plenary. They could not be debated, they could not vote in the Committee on Budgets. Rule 117 of our Rules of Procedure makes this clear. I therefore ask you to leave the vote this evening, to ask for a legal opinion on whether the veto of the Government can be lifted, when these amendments have not entered the plenary alive - they have not entered the plenary alive - and, therefore, whether they are worth the compromises that have been raised on them. [[protests]] I'm sorry, but I'm not done. There has also been a violation of Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure. Article 114 defines what transactional amendments are. Well, look, in the 4112 they have negotiated with Esquerra a contract of seasonal power according to season and consumption with railway infrastructures in Catalonia, which have nothing to do with it. And in the 4121 they have negotiated with Esquerra the tax allocation in the IRPF of the Catholic Church with road infrastructures in Catalonia. They're not transactional. They must not be admitted. That is not what Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure says, which states that transnationals are the ones that try to bring the text closer to the amendment at an intermediate point. These compromise amendments have nothing to do with the original amendment. They must be excluded from the ballot box. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. As you know, this is not the first time this is happening. There have been many other debates where the Government has vetoed some amendments and then lifted the veto, and what is voted on is the compromise, as the amendment is still alive. [[Some Members: No! No! No!]] Therefore, the vote is on the compromise. Ladies and gentlemen, it has happened other times, and it is therefore going to proceed as has always been done in this House. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] We vote in two minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Draft Law on General State Budgets for the Year 2023. Title I. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 152 against, 191 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u257	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 298 votes in favour, 100 against, 192 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u258	They're rejected. Title III. Amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 3571. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 63 against, 181 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u259	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván, amendment 3394. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 105 against, 178 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u260	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 100 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u261	They're rejected. Transactional amendments. Transactional amendment number 1 to amendment 4070 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 185 against, 98 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u262	It's approved. Title VIII. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 3284. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 21 against, 268 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u263	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. Amendment 3398. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 11 against, 280 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u264	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendment 2547. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 290 votes in favour, 12 against, 271 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u265	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 4101. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 28 against, 251 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u266	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 4108. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 38 against, 251 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u267	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 24 against, 260 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u268	They're rejected. Section 07, Passive Classes. Amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 3856. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 100 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u269	It's rejected. Title V. Amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Amendment 4404. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 152 against, 187 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u270	It's rejected. Section 06, Public Debt. Amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 3855. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 9 against, 284.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u271	It's rejected. Title VI. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 153 against, 191 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u272	They're rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 3283. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 22 against, 255 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u273	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. Amendment 4503. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 7 against, 257 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u274	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 4071. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 24 against, 260 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u275	It's rejected. Amendment 4074. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 24 against, 251 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u276	It's rejected. Transactional amendments. Transactional Amendment No 2 to Amendment No 2551 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 274 against, 9 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u277	It's approved. Additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. Amendment 2284. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 95 against 181; abstentions 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u278	It's rejected. Amendment 2285. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 96 against 180; abstentions 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u279	It's rejected. Amendment 2286. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 105 against, 180 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u280	It's rejected. Amendment 2287. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 14 against, 270 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u281	It's rejected. Amendment 2288. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 105 against, 180 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u282	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. Amendment 2254. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 104 against, 187 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u283	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro and Mrs Fernández Pérez. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 103 against, 178 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u284	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV. Amendment 4231. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 11 against, 265 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u285	It's rejected. Amendment 4285. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 23 against, 176 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u286	It's rejected. Amendment 4288. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 6 against, 178 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u287	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 3594. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 152 against, 181 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u288	It's rejected. Amendments 3602, 3638, 3641, 3642, 3651, 3692, 3704 and 3726. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 9 against, 283 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u289	They're rejected. Amendment 3603. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 61 against, 275 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u290	It's rejected. Amendments 3604, 3611, 3618, 3619, 3652 and 3675. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 152 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u291	They're rejected. Amendments 3646 and 3653. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 103 against, 186 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u292	They're rejected. Amendments 3659, 3736 and 3750. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 9 against, 188 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u293	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 100 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u294	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 3285. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 107 against, 173 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u295	It's rejected. Amendment 3287. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 26 against, 262 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u296	It's rejected. Amendment 3288. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour 26 against 266.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u297	It's rejected. Amendment 3290. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 27 against, 265 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u298	It's rejected. Amendment 3294. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 11 against, 254 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u299	It's rejected. Amendment 3295. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 25 against, 255 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u300	It's rejected. Amendment 3299. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 10 against, 266 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u301	It's rejected. Amendment 3300. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 11 against, 255 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u302	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendment 5320. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 106 against, 165 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u303	It's rejected. Amendment 5356. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 97 against, 165 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u304	It's rejected. Amendment 5358. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 106 against, 165 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u305	It's rejected. Amendment 5429. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 15 against, 178 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u306	It's rejected. Amendment 5430. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 7 against, 276 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u307	It's rejected. Amendment 5434. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 6 against, 265 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u308	It's rejected. Amendment 5454. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 106 against, 177 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u309	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 6 against, 268 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u310	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. Amendment 3353. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 109 against, 174 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u311	It's rejected. Amendment 3375. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 107 against, 177 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u312	It's rejected. Amendments 3468 and 3486. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 16 against, 178 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u313	They're rejected. Amendments 3469, 3470, 3480, 3484, 3485 and 3512. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 20 against, 269 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u314	They're rejected. Amendments 3442, 3465, 3476, 3510, 3513 and 3514. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 6 against, 268 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u315	They're rejected. Amendments 3445 and 3487. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 7 against, 178 abstentions, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u316	They're rejected. Amendments 3446, 3467, 3490, 3492, 3493, 3516 and 3517. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 11 against, 277 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u317	They're rejected. Amendments 3462 and 3518. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 103 against, 177 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u318	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 107 against, 175 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u319	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendments 2584, 2608, 2645, 2667, 2711 and 2713. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 108 against 184; abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u320	They're rejected. Amendment 2589. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 99 against, 181 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u321	It's rejected. Amendment 2597. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 18 against, 274 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u322	It's rejected. Amendment 2607. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 13 against, 269 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u323	It's rejected. Amendments 2610, 2637 and 2682. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 21 against, 267 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u324	They're rejected. Amendment 2613. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 77 against, 166 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u325	It's rejected. Amendment 2631. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 164 against, 168 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u326	It's rejected. Amendments 2632, 2675, 2680, 2681, 2689 and 2699. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 18 against, 259 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u327	They're rejected. Amendment 2638. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 8 against, 269 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u328	It's rejected. Amendment 2651. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 114 against, 166 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u329	It's rejected. Amendment 2657. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 99 against, 177 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u330	It's rejected. Amendment 2660. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 11 against, 265 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u331	It's rejected. Amendment 2668. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 11 against, 257 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u332	It's rejected. Amendment 2669. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour 99 against 179 abstentions 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u333	It's rejected. Amendments 2679 and 2683. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 8 against, 262 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u334	It's rejected. Amendment 2706. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 35 against, 252 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u335	It's rejected. Amendment 5302. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 109 against, 161 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u336	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 108 against 162; abstentions 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u337	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. Amendments 4445, 4479 and 4480. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 32 against, 252 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u338	They're rejected. Amendment 4471. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 108 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u339	It's rejected. Amendment 4475. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 23 against, 256 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u340	It's rejected. Amendment 4478. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 106 against, 170 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u341	It's rejected. Amendment 4486. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 8 against, 261 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u342	It's rejected. Amendment 4495. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 104 against, 168 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u343	It's rejected. Amendment 4497. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour 98 against 166; abstentions 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u344	It's rejected. Amendment 4510. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 7 against, 257 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u345	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 18 against, 261 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u346	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 4082. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 117 against, 168 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u347	It's rejected. Amendments 4085 and 4086. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 118 against, 160 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u348	They're rejected. Amendments 4131, 4133, 4134 and 4177. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 24 against, 260 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u349	They're rejected. Amendments 4145, 4168, 4200, 4209 and 4210. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 21 against, 250 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u350	They're rejected. Amendment 4152. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 291 votes in favour, 27 against, 161 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u351	It's rejected. Amendment 4169. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 26 against, 161 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u352	It's rejected. Amendments 4197 and 4198. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 25 against, 263 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u353	They're rejected. Amendment 4206. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 37 against, 249 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u354	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 27 against, 257 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u355	They're rejected. Amendment tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Groups, Euskal Herria Bildu and Plural, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 3561. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 291 votes in favour, 35 against, 253 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u356	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 2103. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 100 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u357	It's rejected. Amendments 2129, 4369, 4370 and 4526. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 152 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u358	They're rejected. Amendments 3531 and 4356. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 99 against, 192 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u359	They're rejected. Amendments 4334 and 4343. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 92 against, 192 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u360	They're rejected. Amendment 4362. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 101 against, 191 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u361	It's rejected. Amendments 4367 and 4413. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 101 against, 189 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u362	They're rejected. Remaining amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 101 against, 191 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u363	They're rejected. Transactional amendments. Transactional Amendment No 3 to Amendment No 2582 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 273 against, 10 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u364	It's approved. Transactional Amendment No 4 to Amendment No 2619 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 272 against, 11 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u365	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 5 to Amendment No 2620 from the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 177 against 12 abstentions 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u366	It's approved. Amendment No 6 to Amendments Nos 2621 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi, and 4109 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 188 against, 10 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u367	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 7 to Amendment No 2622 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 181 against, 100 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u368	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 8 to Amendment No 2648 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 277 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u369	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 9 to Amendment No 2661 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 276 against, 8 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u370	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 10 to Amendment No 2690 from the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 179 against, 1 abstention, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u371	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 11 to Amendment No 2692 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 182 against 12 abstentions 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u372	It's approved. Amendment No 12 to Amendment No 2693 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour 189 against 3 abstentions 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u373	It's approved. Amendment No 13 to Amendment No 2694 from the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 181 against 13 abstentions 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u374	It's approved. Amendment No 14 to Amendment No 2695 by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 181 against 12 abstentions 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u375	It's approved. Amendment No 15 to Amendment No 2696 by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 190 against, 3 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u376	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 16 to Amendment No 3519 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 198; abstentions 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u377	It's approved. Transactional amendment 17 to amendment 4112 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 278 against, 9 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u378	It's approved. Transactional Amendment No 18 to Amendment No 4121 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 189 against 97; abstentions 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u379	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 19 to amendment 4153 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour 190 against 100; abstentions 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u380	It's approved. Amendment No 20 to Amendment No 4598 from the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 188 against, 99 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u381	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 21 to Amendment No 3515 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 199 against, 3 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u382	It's approved. Amendment No 27 to Amendment No 5289 of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour 187 against 90 abstentions 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u383	It's approved. Amendment No 28 to Amendment No 5290 by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 188 against, 88 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u384	It's approved. Amendment No 29 to Amendment No 5291 by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 187 against, 92 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u385	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 30 to Amendment No 5300 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 181 against 12 abstentions 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u386	It's approved. Attachments. Amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Amendment 4585. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 100 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u387	It's rejected. Section 28, Ministry of Science and Innovation. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. Amendment 2464. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour 106 against 183 abstentions 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u388	It's rejected. Amendment 2465. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 102 against, 185 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u389	It's rejected. Amendment 2466. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 14 against, 186 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u390	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. Amendment 2253. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 105 against, 180 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u391	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 3876. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour 99 against 193.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u392	It's rejected. Amendments 3827 and 3977. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 14 against, 188 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u393	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 100 against, 190 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u394	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendments 3030 and 3031. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 113 against, 164 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u395	They're rejected. Amendment 3175. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 20 against, 254 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u396	It's rejected. Amendment 3176. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 112 against, 164 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u397	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 112 against, 164 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u398	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendments 2914, 2915 and 2918. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 22 against, 166 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u399	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 112 against, 161 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u400	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. Amendments 4879 to 4882, 4884 to 4891, 4894 to 4902, 4905, 4907 and 4916 to 4921. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 34 against, 252 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u401	They're rejected. Amendments 4910 and 4911. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 16 against, 260 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u402	They're rejected. Amendment 4915. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 23 against, 251 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u403	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour, 120 against, 161 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u404	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 5158. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour 187 against 103 abstentions 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u405	It's approved. Amendment 5175. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 292 votes in favour 128 against 159 abstentions 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-22-CD221122.u406	It's rejected.
