ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. I take the opportunity to wish you, in this first plenary session in an extraordinary period, a happy year 2022. We begin with the item on the agenda for the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 31/2021 of 28 December, amending Law 19/1994 of 6 July, amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, and a new deadline is set for submitting waivers or revocations to special taxation methods and regimes. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon to all of you. I join the President's desire to begin the session to wish everyone every success during the year and, in addition, to convey to them the wish that during this session and during these months in which I am sure we will have the opportunity to debate, even to confront opinions, let us do so with respect between the different political options and with the sole objective of improving the day-to-day life of the citizen, which is to which we owe ourselves. This afternoon I appear before your ladies and gentlemen to request the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 31/2021, approved by the Council of Ministers on 28 December, to amend Law 19/1994 on the economic and fiscal regime of the Canary Islands in order to adapt it to the new map of regional aid. They know that in the last few days this autonomous community, the Canary Islands, has been severely punished for the consequences of the eruption of the volcano of the island of La Palma. It is a circumstance that the Government, and certainly a large part of the political groups, has followed minute by minute and that the Executive has supported with resources and measures so that the citizens of La Palma can return, as far as possible, to normalcy and so that the economic activity of the island is not adversely affected by the consequences of the eruption. It is true that much work remains to be done, but it remains a priority for this Government to return this normality to the island of La Palma and, therefore, to the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands. This has been a bet that has been made from the very beginning. In four years of the government of President Sánchez, from 2019 to 2022, I have to say that Canarias has received 53% more resources than in the last four years of President Rajoy. Furthermore, as you also know, the Canary Islands is one of the autonomous communities that has had the greatest investment in the State General Budgets recently approved in this House. This budget allocates EUR 362.4 million for investment to the islands. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it will certainly also be an aid for that economic recovery. It's the highest amount in the last ten years. It should also be noted that the uniqueness of this land, basically because of insularity, has justified that state investments are articulated in many cases by capital transfers, i.e. by chapter 8 of the budget and therefore financed by the State but executed by the autonomous community itself. In this line of meeting this specificity and needs, Spain notified the European Commission last 1 December of the proposal for a regional aid map for the period 2022-2027 - as they recall, is the period on which the multiannual financial framework is developing - and therefore accompanies the whole policy of regional incentives. It is this fact, that is to say, the modification of the regional aid map, which obliges the Executive to promote this initiative, because it is necessary to amend several temporary references which are contained in the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands. In short, what we want with this initiative is for the REF to have the same temporal scope as Regulation 651/2014 of the European Commission, the regulation declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market; that is, that when such aid is subsidised it has no problem with competition and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have previously defined rules of play. The Community Regulation, which is known as the General Block Exemption Regulation, shall apply until 31 December 2023. However, some temporary references of the REF were linked to the validity of the previous aid map, which expired on 31 December. Therefore, once this new map proposed by the Government of Spain has been notified, these temporary references should be amended until the date of application of the Community regulation, i.e. until 31 December 2023. Hence the need to validate this royal decree-law so that we continue to contemplate this peculiarity that the tax regime has in relation to the rest of the state, because - I insist - it would have expired last December 31st. In addition, this same rule addresses another circumstance, such as the validity of the Special Area of the Canary Islands until the new end of the period of validity of the map, i.e. until 31 December 2027. This last amendment, which I have just commented on, aims to eliminate legal uncertainty that could be generated by economic operators due to the maintenance of the deadlines that I have just mentioned, given the current legal wording of Law 94/1994. In addition, this map of regional aid, including the Canary Islands Tax Incentive Scheme, has to count - and I would like to state this - on the authorisation of the European Commission. Therefore, until that happens - an element that will be done in the coming days, according to the Commission itself, or in the coming weeks - it is necessary to condition the effectiveness of the amendment to obtain the said authorisation. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, the extension introduced in the Budgets Act for 2022 of the exclusionary limits of the method of objective estimation of the income tax of natural persons and of the simplified regimes of agriculture, livestock and fishing of VAT provided for in 2022 also obliges to extend until the next 31st day of this January the ordinary period of filing of waiver and revocation of waiver originally provided for in December 2021. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have tried to compile all these circumstances in the current rule. To that end, we are going to discuss a text consisting of an article, two additional provisions and three final provisions. The single article amends from 1 January 2022 paragraph 11 of Article 27 of Law 19/1994, amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, which regulates the possibility for taxpayers to carry out what we call advance investments, which will be considered as materialisation of the CRP, the reserve for investments in the Canary Islands, which will be provided from the profits obtained in the tax period during which the investment is made or in the three subsequent ones, provided that the requirements laid down in that Law are met. These allocations will have to be made from benefits that could be obtained until 31 December 2023. For this reason, the royal decree that I submit to validation extends this deadline, which previously ends on 31 December 2021, and extends it until the end of 2023. The materialisation and its financing system shall be communicated jointly with the corporate tax return, the non-resident income tax or the personal income tax in the tax period during which the advance investments are made. This single article also amends the 29 to extend the validity of the ZEC, the Special Area of the Canary Islands, which will now have as its limit on 31 December 2027, which, if necessary, may be extended, subject to the authorisation of the European Commission. However, the authorization to register in the Official Register of Entities of this Special Area of the Canary Islands shall be limited to 31 December 2023. This royal decree, therefore, extends a deadline that would have expired on 31 December last year. In any event, this maintenance of the ZEC, the Special Area of the Canary Islands, will be conditional on the outcome of the regular reviews, as laid down in the Regulation, carried out by the European Commission. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this unique article which gives meaning to this royal decree-law, is of itself of fundamental importance in maintaining a situation on a part of the territory essential for the development of economic activity and for the convergence of the Canary Islands with the whole State. In any case, we have also added two additional provisions to this single article. The first of these sets out the conditionality of the modifications to the authorisation in the REF Act, as it cannot otherwise be, by the European Commission of the regional aid map for the period 2022-2027. That communication ended on 31 December 2021 - I have already told you that on 1 December it was transferred to the Commission itself - and at the moment all the countries are waiting for the Commission to resolve, and will do so, according to all the news and contacts we maintain, along the lines proposed by the Government of Spain, since it is an objective methodology established by the Commission itself and has no important capacity to incorporate any alteration. The second additional provision provides for this period of waiver and revocation of the method of objective estimation of income tax and these simplified systems of agriculture, livestock and fishing of VAT for the year 2022. This deadline is extended from the date of publication in the BOE of the Royal Decree-Law, i.e. from 29 December to 31 January. The time limit laid down in the IRPF and VAT regulations is therefore extended, which will, as I say, last for the current month. For this reason, the rule also provides that waivers and revocations in the year 2022 to these special schemes or to the method of objective estimation of income tax during this last month of December 2021 shall be considered to be submitted in a period of time. Finally, the three final provisions will relate to the competition title, the regulatory clearance and the entry into force of the standard. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very legal text, as you will be able to see, a text in line with the authorisations that the European Commission itself allows us to make use of this capacity on an area that needs this additional impetus that allows the rules of competition and the rules of the internal market. Therefore, what we do, in short, is to bring this REF into line with the regional aid map for that period in which the multiannual financial framework 2022-2027 runs. As you know, the ZEC itself was also authorised by the European Commission itself within the meaning of a special scheme for the installation of economic operators, and has already been renewed on different occasions; in fact, the State Tax Administration Agency estimates that the extension of the application of the registration period for entities belonging to the Canary Special Area will be in effect until 31 December 2023 and will have a revenue-generating impact of up to EUR 16.4 million. Finally, with regard to the extension until 2023 of the anticipated investments that could be considered as materialisation of the CRP, the reserve for investments in the Canary Islands, the State Tax Agency estimates a revenue-generating impact of around EUR 61 million. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to ask all the parliamentary groups to support a necessary standard for the Canary Islands. As I have wanted to point out in this speech, you will have seen that it has no additional political content whatsoever. This decree-law is strictly legal, although, of course, behind it and the support that could be given by the political groups, we will continue to establish a special regime in an area as important as the Canary Islands in order to allow necessary convergence to correct certain indicators of inequality and to make investment attractive in this part of our territory and companies decide to invest in the Canary Islands and therefore contribute to the prosperity and well-being of this autonomous community. Without further ado, ladies and gentlemen, I call for the vote in favour of the validation of the decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe is the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Minister. We appreciate your broad explanation of the content of this royal decree-law. I will only tell you that if there is an important political content for the Canary Islands it is the Economic and Fiscal Regime, a question of every essential point, with a broad political content. Another thing is that the royal decree has a broad technical content, which is true. New Canarias will support the validation of this royal decree-law, not without first making some caveats that seem relevant to us. On the one hand, it is true that this extension of the ZEC zone until 2027 is correct because it modifies the extension of 2026, which was previously established in an incorrect way, in view of the validity of the current state aid map. It is also true that you know that we have insisted very much on the need for that time to be extended precisely until December 2029 - I know that there is assent on the part of your ministry, and you confirm it to me now - because if the date of registration of the ZEC zone - I know that this is a mess, right? - ends the year 2023, the tradition is that it is six years of enjoyment of that period of tax exemptions, so it should be 2029 the date. We know that this requires consultation with the European Commission, either through the comfort letter or the Commission's decision, but it would be the first time that that did not happen. We are convinced that we have an agreement with this and that there is a three-month deadline for doing so, so that this issue is not of concern to New Canarias, because we trust the Government's initiative in this matter. The second issue is the extension of the CRP. The investment reserve in the Canary Islands is a fiscal tool aimed at reinvesting surpluses in the Canary Islands. I have to say, as you have already pointed out, that the Canary Islands has suffered especially in this pandemic; first, because of our enormous dependence on tourism, that as we can be credited is an element that we are still suffering, and, moreover, because on the island of La Palma a volcano came out - we will talk about that later -. This has affected the way in which this tax incentive, the investment reserve in the Canary Islands, is implemented. Already in the previous year there was an extension until 2021 by those who had endowed the ICN in 2016. What we are saying is that it would now be necessary, and this is what the Parliament of the Canary Islands has seen with a very large majority on 27 December last year, and that is what is in the amendment made by New Canary Islands to the State General Budgets on this subject, and it seems reasonable to us that, because of the material, objective difficulties, the materialization of this tax tool could be extended, as it was last year. Those who provided it for the year 2027 must be able to extend it until the year 2022. It seems to us that this is reasonable. For this reason, we will vote in favour of processing as a bill to include this and some other matters relating to the ZEC. One of these issues is of great concern to us, namely the need to authorize triangular trade. This is an issue on which there has been a unilateral change, traditional criteria - who knows what I'm talking about -. This is a crucial issue for the ZEC. Let us trust that we have an agreement on it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote yes to the validation of this royal decree-law, but we will demand that it be treated as a bill in order to be able to correct in Congress the cuts that entail for our Special Area Canary. The Canary Special Area is one of the most powerful instruments of the Economic and Fiscal Regime for attracting investment, of course, but also for creating stable and quality jobs in the Canary Islands, but the ministry is committed to crushing our Economic and Fiscal Regime; it cuts it down and mutilates it as soon as it is presented with the slightest opportunity. On this occasion, it has cut the enjoyment of the tax benefits offered by the ZEC to registered companies, from six years to four years. The Canary Islands Special Zone has been operating for 14 years and has never, ever, ever been cut. You are committed to putting the Canary Islands, one of the regions most punished in Europe for the economic crisis of this pandemic, with an insurmountable and unbearable unemployment. Just at this moment when it is so necessary that investments are made in the Canary Islands, that companies are set up, that the tourism sector is recovered and that they generate jobs for our people, you go and, for the first time, you take years away from the Canary Islands Special Zone. Minister of Finance, all you do is create insecurity and uncertainty for businesses and likely investors. It is not the same that your company enjoys tax benefits six years that enjoy only four years. That, Minister, is not being discussed by Europe, just you, who are doing the most harmful and harmful interpretation for the Canary Islands, something that had never happened and set a very dangerous precedent. In addition, let me tell you that you prevented an amendment by the Canary Islands Coalition that extended the validity of the ZEC, vetoed it and prevented it from being voted on in this year's General State Budgets, and then issued a late and bad decree. Madam Minister, your own party in the Canary Islands has asked for this to be corrected and asks you to do so in less than three months, but since we do not trust you after this long experience we are going to ask that you be treated as a law and that the commitment to keep the six years be collected as soon as possible, as the whole Parliament of the Canary Islands has requested. The Government of the Canary Islands has urged that it not continue to cut back on the tools that the Canary Islands has in its RED, both for the safety of businesses and also to get out of poverty, generate employment and pull out of the economy of the Canary Islands. Minister, if there's anything we're happy about right now, all the canaries are that their secretary of state is a canary. Let's see if you explain to the officials of the Ministry of Finance and to everyone what is remoteness and ultra-perificity - Europe recognizes it always and never has to discuss it - what is the statute and what is the Economic and Fiscal Regime. They're rights, not privileges. They're to make it up to you. It is not a good thing of a government of the Canary Islands 75% to residents or other aid. I'm on my way. This has to be done. They stopped it in the budgets, don't stop it now; it's asked by the Canary Islands. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the remoteness and insularity of the Canary Islands, which are now being subsumed under the concept of ultra-expertity, have always necessitated the establishment of a differentiated economic regime that will enable the Canary Islands to meet its particular challenges on an equal footing with the rest of the national territory and with the European one. In short, in Citizens we protect the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands, the REF, which is fully recognized by both the European authorities and the Spanish State through the Spanish Constitution and the numerous references in the state regulatory framework. The REF sets out a series of economic and fiscal measures that make it possible to compensate for the permanent and structural constraints that limit the social and economic development of the islands because of their state of ultra-perificity. In this way, Law 19/1994 of 6 July on Amendment of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands establishes certain fiscal instruments which aim to alleviate the conditions limiting the economic and social development of the Canary Islands. Having obtained the reform that today is subject to validation of the Congress of Deputies the approval of the Parliament of the Canary Islands and because it is a necessary reform, Citizens will support its validation. However, we believe that there was room for technical improvement and that something else should have been done. This is particularly the case in the Special Area of the Canary Islands. Article 29(1) of Law 19/1994 so far in force provides that the validity of the Special Area of the Canary Islands shall be limited to 31 December 2026, clearly distinguishing between the period of registration and the period of enjoyment of the incentive and distinguishing between the granting of authorization and enjoyment. The Commission has always allowed the individual effects of the incentive to extend beyond the end of the relevant period. The extension of the 2014-2020 regional aid directives for one year, i.e. until 31 December 2021, resulted in a consistent adaptation of the deadline for registration in the Registry of entities of the Special Area of the Canary Islands, but did not result in an equivalent extension of one year in enjoyment, unnecessarily curtailing in one year the enjoyment of exemptions for registrations made during 2021. The new regional aid guidelines 2022-2027 and the new regional aid map communicated by Spain will apply from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2027, which is why the proposed and analysed rules in this report should increase the period of enjoyment of the Special Area of the Canary Islands until 31 December 2029, in line with the precedents set out above, where the European Commission has allowed the period of enjoyment of the incentive to be maintained for six years, thus not mutilating the temporary scope of the Special Area of the Canary Islands, which is essential for attracting investment, setting up businesses in the area and creating employment, so that the abolition of a year of enjoyment entailed by that amendment can be corrected. Citizens is a party that always pursues equal opportunities for all Spaniards, and that is why we have always defended the specificity of the Canary Islands as the outermost zone of our country and its special singularity. So, we have to remember that there is still a lot of work to be done in the Canary Islands, and this is something we have tried on numerous occasions. For example, last time we did so through amendments to the general state budgets, and we believe that this is also a good time to remember all the needs that the Canary Islands still has, such as improving its connectivity, in line with the recommendations made by the AIReF, which found that the rise in subsidy from 50 to 75% had a negative impact on the increase in prices on journeys between the peninsula and the islands. We also believe it is important that the provision of air fire-extinguishing means will be increased during the summer campaigns on the Canary Islands Due to the severity of the fires that have taken place in recent seasons, as well as measures to ensure the provision of all human and material means necessary to improve maritime surveillance of the Canary Islands border and to make them available to the Civil Guard and Maritime Rescue, as well as to increase the allocations of subsidies for the maritime and air transport of goods originating in or destined for extra-penisular territories. As you can see, there are many things that can be done by the Canary Islands and we believe that this is the time to draw the Government's attention to continue working and get those improvement measures that the Canary Islands urgently needs. For all the above, we will support the validation of this royal decree-law, because it is essentially a technical adjustment, although much remains to be done to improve the life of the canaries, which from Citizens whenever we can remember it from this rostrum to this Government. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. President, I shall make a very brief statement. I would like to begin by sending a warm hug from here to my colleague Meri Pita, a canary Member of our group who should have defended our position here today but who has not been able to travel for family reasons. From here, Meri, I send you a strong hug and a lot of encouragement, my dear. The normative text that comes to us today for validation basically contains two measures, which have not had a high media impact, as the minister said before, but whose importance and urgency justify being transmitted through this formula contemplated in our Constitution. On the one hand, the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands is amended with the aim of adapting it to the regional aid map, and on the other hand, time limits are set for waivers and revocations to the method of objective estimation of the income tax of natural persons, as well as to the special simplified schemes and of agriculture, livestock and fishing of the value added tax for this year 2022. As you know, the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands enjoys a special economic and fiscal regime, typical of its historical and constitutionally recognized acquis, based on commercial freedom of import and export, non-application of monopolies and customs and tax exemptions on consumption. That scheme incorporates into its content the principles and rules applicable as a result of the recognition of the Canary Islands as the outermost region of the European Union, pursuant to Article 349 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union. On 1 December Spain notified the Commission of the regional aid map for the period 2022-2027, and this necessitates a number of temporary references contained in Law 19/1994 of 6 July amending the Canary Islands' economic and fiscal system, so that legal milestones have the same temporal scope as the period of validity of the Community rule. In addition, the text we are considering today envisages the extension of the validity of the ZEC, the Special Area of the Canary Islands, until the new end of the period of validity of the regional aid map, thus eliminating the legal uncertainty that could regenerate economic operators by maintaining the deadlines mentioned in the current legal wording. Finally, let me highlight the amendment to Article 27.11 of Law 19/1994 which this new text implies in relation to the reserve for investments in the Canary Islands. It allows for early investments to be made, which shall be considered as the materialisation of the reserve for investments in the Canary Islands, provided that profits from the period during which the investment takes place or within three years thereafter, provided that the other requirements laid down in this standard are met. As a novelty, these investments may be made on the basis of profits obtained until 31 December 2023. All of them seem to us to be both relevant and adjusted measures, and my group will therefore vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Minister, for an explanation that has been absolutely incomprehensible. You've given up a bit of data, you've launched random numbers. You say: No, the tax impact will be of..., but it doesn't specify whether it's greater gain or less gain, and we're talking about a system that sets tax exemptions. It is not clear whether you mean that the Spanish Treasury is going to get higher or lower income. You don't specify anything, just generalities. In fact, he takes advantage of it to campaign. You say that the government of Pedro Sánchez has done so much more for the Canary Islands than previous governments, something that is not well understood what it paints in this royal decree-law, which is supposedly a technical issue and free of political content, as you yourself have expressed. In short, it is better for anyone who has heard it to have the lesson already learned, or to listen to us, because I think we are going to explain it much more clearly. Nor has the representative of New Canarias, who has come to pass his hand behind his back, been explained much. It is absolutely incomprehensible that a representative of the Canary Islands can praise the evil done, the improvisation and the exhaustion of the deadlines by this Government, and here comes the essence of this royal decree-law. What none of you has explained is that this rule basically modifies the one established by the Canary Islands Tax System in two of its articles, in Articles 27 and 29. They establish the essence of the reserve for investments in the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands Special Area. The first of these two tax instruments, the investment reserve in the Canary Islands, allows companies to use their profits, ensuring that they will be invested in the islands, by reducing the tax base of these economic agents, i.e. it is a tax exemption in all respects. On the other hand, the Canary Islands Special Zone is simply a physical zone located in the Canary Islands, so that those companies that settle in that zone or have facilities in it, etc., receive privileged tax treatment. But you've overlooked this. These are two very important articles of a rule which was born in 1994 and which have undergone nothing less than seventeen amendments. Why? Because, on a systematic basis, his Government and the governments of the People's Party, whenever the deadline for the termination of that regime runs out, they extend it, but they do so with droplets, they extend it in one year, two years, one year, two years, keeping the situation in absolute uncertainty. So much so that you said today that it is an extensionable regime if necessary, that it will be. If you already foresee that it will be necessary for the regime to be extended, why not do so now? Why does it not, in this case for the Canary Islands, but I say this as applicable to all of Spain, a broad time horizon, so that companies and Spaniards can make long-term plans, so that they can plan their investments in the long term? The answer is more or less clear, yes basically because you have never lived in the real world, you don't know how an investment is planned or what are the average repayment times for investments. [[Applauds]] You'll say we're coming to chrispar. No, we have come to tell the truths that you do not say, neither you nor your New Canarias assistants, because in this regime, Minister - you have repeated it several times to date, but to let us know who is listening to us - the deadline for allocating or committing investments is 31 December last year. In other words, any company that has an average planning must already have closed down what its investments are going to be, as it must have set its targets for the next three, four or even five years. And you now set up an extension, which comes out of the joke, which adds companies back to absolute uncertainty. Moreover, you introduce an additional provision in this rule which reads as follows: Please note that this amendment is conditional on the European Commission's approval of the regional aid map for the period 2022-2027. That is to say, despite the fact that Parliament, the Spanish national sovereignty, approves this rule, the European Commission, to which the Spanish have not voted, have not elected and do not control, can still come to amend the plan. You have the assurance that the European Commission has already expressed almost complete security to you. What is that, Minister? What company, what autonomous, what person living in the real world can set up investments, plan investments, plan your economic activity on the basis that you have been told that you will most likely approve the validation that you bring here today? [[Applauds]] How come they don't fall for shame? I see that he denies it with his head, but it is that the situation is unfortunate, and you, in your verborrhea, do not give a single logical explanation that entrepreneurs can serve. And it is essential that you understand this, especially the canaries, who are directly affected by this, especially the canary voters of the Socialist Party, because what you bring here is uncertainty, for all of Spain, of course, but today specifically with this issue for the Canaries. Finally, it must be explained that this regime, which is very reasonable, is justified precisely because the Canary Islands, which is a part of the Spanish territory, is absolutely far from the Iberian peninsula, has great distances, uncoordinatedness and difficulty in accessing this core of investment, this core of economic activity, which is the European Union and the Iberian peninsula. That is why this tax regime in the Canary Islands does make sense, and it does not make sense the privileged regime of the PNV, that regime which only benefits corruption and which, in the end, does not respond to objective situations, because equality and justice means adapting to the needs of everyone. [[applause]] What makes no sense is to be favorable, beneficial and submissive to the powerful, and yet to punish and oppress the most disadvantaged, which is precisely what you do by adding, as I say, to absolute uncertainty and legal uncertainty. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u13	Thank you, Mr. Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u14	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when these measures of the government appear on the modification of our economic and fiscal regime, the truth is that we are starting to tremble, since the only thing that Pedro Sánchez and Mrs Montero have shown since they are in the government is a profound ignorance of what the Canary Islands is, the measures of our REF, both the economic and the prosecutors, which - I repeat, as we have said before - are not aid, they are not subsidies, they are a right that gives us the Constitution and our status of autonomy that makes the Canary citizens equal, we are at the same level of conditions as any peninsular or European citizen. But that, unfortunately, has not been internalized by the Spanish Government, nor by the Socialist Party nor by the United States. Canarian MPs have had to work, to fight from the minute one of this social-communist government questions that are by law ours, as in reference to the 75% bonus included in our REF when Ábalos joins as minister; investments in the Canary Islands, which in no case may be below the national average; aids to the desalination of water, recently incentives to cinematographic productions and which respect our instruments of low taxation. And we are not talking about large companies, we are talking about the more than 130 000 self-employed people in the Canary Islands, SMEs, small businesses, those who want to go ahead and cannot. And now, budget after budget, it is a shame that you always forget our REF, of items that by law have to include, always trying to negotiate down - I insist, always down - the rights of the canaries. The changes contained in this Royal Decree-Law, which are two: on the one hand, the margin for early investments to materialise the CRP and, on the other, the deadlines for the SCE, are an obvious requirement of the Canary society, and now more than ever, flexibility in taxes is called for, because with this crisis there is no income. And see that we do not ask not to pay, but flexibility in that possibility that gives us the law to generate investment, economy and employment. This flexibility of the RIC, in the face of the government's inaction, has been requested by the People's Party as an amendment two years ago, in the budgets of 2021 and since the beginning of this pandemic crisis, and it must be said that, in general, we see it well, there is usually unanimity among the political groups on these issues, but what seems to us to be wrong are the ways in which the government brings these changes to the ground, on time and badly. Another amendment to the REF is also being discussed in the Senate over the past few weeks, namely the extension of time limits to implement the RIC, a modification that begins in terms proposed by the government and ends with a large majority of the regional Parliament - all but United We can, even the PSOE - to extend for another year. They have listened to the People's Party and we appreciate it, because they have been aware of the reality of our people, autonomous and small societies, who do not stand what is coming upon them, some Leonian conditions that the Government imposes on them only for climbing the blind. But this royal decree-law of the Senate is from a year ago, and a year later they also bring here another royal decree-law with modifications on the RIC and the SEC that does not solve a hundred percent of the canaries' demands, and it is also what we have been asking for for a year and give it to us with droplets. Why does everything cost the Canary Islands so much? Do you know what's going on? Huge uncertainty is being generated, and uncertainty is the worst enemy of the economy. And we well know from the beginning of this pandemic that the Canary Islands companies have not only been facing the greatest health crisis for more than a century, but also the absolute fall of the largest industry in our islands, which is tourism. And, ladies and gentlemen, the solution lies in adapting our economic and fiscal system, but not so, and with measures that are more silent. Ladies and gentlemen, Our President, Pablo Casado, has called for the creation of a tourist PAST, and the Canarian businessman has joined that request. Either that or the modification of the REF or both, but not with what this royal decree represents, which, after all, is an adaptation of the directives. Further and certain changes must be made to achieve an economic environment of certainty in investment and legal certainty for island economic operators. The investment deadlines for the materialization and maintenance of investments must be made more flexible, but they should be done with roundness and consensus, not changing one thing here and another there, I would like to amend this because it is requested by the New Canarias and the other and water because it is requested by the People's Party. That's not the way, gentlemen of the government. Why is all this not addressed and, on the other hand, these scarring modifications are made, which also shorten our instruments? What is being dealt with through this royal decree-law attempts to increase the tax period on which advance investments are allowed by complying with the directive, and to that ok, but then they restrict the period of validity of the Special Area Canaria, a tool that has allowed hundreds of jobs to be created in the Canary Islands, limiting itself to 2027 and limiting the period of acceptance to the incentive for projects presented in 2022 and 2023, which would not have the six years of special taxation. Why aren't they clear with Canarias? Why do you want to take away our main tax incentives? It is not just the People's Party, it is also the Parliament of the Canary Islands. On the specifics of this royal decree-law, we would agree on the first point, on the anticipated investments, but not on the deadline of the SEC. We will give you a vote of confidence and vote in favour, although we call for your processing as a bill to amend this point. I ask all the canarian deputies not to think of their party and yes in the Canaries. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Zurita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Fuentes Curbelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands has a constitutional and statutory historical heritage that is justified by remoteness, insularity, geographical, geological and climatic conditions and scarce resources. Already in the 19th century there was an economic and fiscal regime in the Canary Islands, but it was in 1991, after the signing of the Treaty of Accession of Spain to the European Union and the tax reform entailed, when Law 20/1991 was enacted, amending the fiscal aspects of the Canary Islands Fiscal Economic System. This was mainly due to the high degree of obsolescence and the high level of inoperability of that REF, so that with the entry into force of that law the additional and regulatory provisions opposed it, in particular the articles of Title II of Law 30/1972 of 22 July on the Canary Islands Fiscal System, were repealed. The aim of Act No. 19/1994 amending the Canary Islands' economic and fiscal system is to harmonize and bring it into line with the autonomy resulting from the Canarian economic and fiscal transition in the compatible aspects at national and Community level. The aim is to update the economic aspects of the traditional REF, to ensure the remoteness, insularity and structural constraints that make us an ultraperipheral region, as well as to implement a stable set of economic and fiscal measures to promote the development of the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the Canary Islands and to promote the internationalization of the Canarian economy through its promotion. [[The Lord]] Today we call on this House to validate Royal Decree-Law 31/2021 of 28 December, amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, and to establish a new framework for submitting waivers or revocations to methods of special taxation regimes, as the Minister has already explained. As for the second additional provision, it sets as a deadline for resignation or revocation from 30 December 2021 until 31 January 2022, considering in time those submitted during the month of December, as is mandatory, in accordance with the law and regulations of the IRPF. Amendments to the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands are provided for in a single article of the Royal Decree. Article 27(11) of the reserves and investments in the Canary Islands provides that advance investments may be made, which shall be regarded as the materialisation of the reserves for the investments that are provided in each financial year from the profits obtained in the tax period and in which the investment is carried out with the following three financial years, so that we are talking about four years. As regards Article 29, concerning the validity of the Special Area of the Canary Islands, the first paragraph specifies that the validity of the Special Area of the Canary Islands shall be limited to 31 December 2027, which may be extended with the consent of the European Commission. The second paragraph provides that the authorization to register in the Official Register of Entities of the Special Area of the Canary Islands shall be limited to 31 December 2023. The third paragraph states that the maintenance of the ZEC will in any case be conditional on the outcome of the periodic reviews to be carried out by the European Commission, Mr Figaredo. The conditionality of the measures adopted within the framework of the REF is provided for in the third additional of the Royal Decree-Law that we are debating today, and it is stipulated that the amendments introduced in Law 19/1994 are conditional on the authorisation by the European Commission of the regional aid map for the period 2027, Mr Figaredo. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliament of the Canary Islands gave a favourable and unanimous opinion on 27 December on the amendments to Articles 27(11) and 29(2) by an absolute majority and issued a report conditional on the Government of Spain taking action with the European Commission to extend the period of validity of the ZEC within six years, with the opposition vote of the Canary Islands Coalition, PP and Citizens. For various reasons, these circumstances have been taken into account by the Commission in the guidelines on State aid for regional purposes and in the general care regulations by category for the periods 2007-2013 and 2014-2020. I advise you, Mr Figaredo - and Mrs Zurita as well - to study the economic and fiscal system of the Canary Islands a little bit. [[Applauds]] Mrs Oramas, I will mention one detail: the Canary Special Zone was not created 14 years ago. It was created in 1994, but its operation was approved in 2020, although it was amended in 2006 and 2014. Therefore, it is not that we have been with the Canary Special Zone for fourteen years. Some groups have requested the processing of this royal decree as a bill. We do not understand what this makes sense, when the only thing that has been intended is to adapt our REF to the new directives on regional State aid for the period 2022-2027 and to ensure the legal certainty that could be included at the moment. I can understand the request of the Canary Islands - PP and Coalition - for the governments of Spain and the Canary Islands, because their only purpose is to make themselves known - they do so here and they do it in the Canary Islands - but I cannot understand their position, Mr Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u17	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u18	It ended right away, Mr. President. Its group approved on 27 December, in paragraph 2 of the conditional report, that for three months the Spanish Government should proceed with the six years that have been established at other times. [[Consent of Mrs Oramas González-Moro and Mr Quevedo Iturbe]] But you are asking them today, when it has only been twenty-five days since the entry into force of this decree.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u19	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u20	We will therefore vote no to the processing as a bill. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u21	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 28/2021 OF 17 DECEMBER, BY WHICH COMPLEMENTARY MEASURES OF AN EMERGENT CHARACTER ARE TAKEN FOR THE REPAIR OF THE DAMAGE caused by VOLCANIC ERUPPATIONS AND FOR THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL RECOVERY OF THE ISLAND OF THE PALMA. [[File number 130/000068]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u22	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 28/2021 of 17 December, adopting additional measures of an urgent nature for the reparation of damage caused by volcanic eruptions and for the economic and social recovery of the island of La Palma. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u23	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am very glad to be back in this House and to resume parliamentary activity with all of you. First of all, as Minister of the Presidency and of Relations with the Courts, I would like to take the opportunity to highlight the work that you all have done during the year 2021. Eleven organic laws, twenty-two ordinary and twenty-seven royal decree-laws have been passed in this House, making a total of sixty policy initiatives that you have endorsed; many with broad majority and some even unanimously. I would therefore like to express my satisfaction at the fact that all of you in this House are doing your job and doing so responsibly. Receive my recognition. [[Applauds]] As you know, the Government has adopted at the first Council of Ministers in January the Annual Normative Plan for 2022, which is ambitious and has ninety-two laws - eleven of them organic - that will pass through this House. Therefore, I humbly ask you to put the general interest before any other partisan interest and to contribute to what must be the second major modernization of our country, which will promote the Annual Normative Plan and the recovery funds. Without further ado, ladies and gentlemen, I turn to the issue before us today, which is the validation of Royal Decree-Law 28/2021. It is a rule that, as you all know, complements and improves the aid that we have been deploying since the government in favour of the reconstruction of the island of La Palma in response to needs following the eruption of the volcano. This royal decree-law has nine new developments that I will briefly present to you in order to ask for their validation and their favorable vote and that, in general, what they intend is to extend the aid and to speed up even more those that are already being deployed in the territory of the island of La Palma. Firstly, the maximum amounts of housing and energy aid have been increased, so that people who have lost their homes in whole or in part can receive up to EUR 60,480, four times more than the amounts previously provided for in any other disaster. In addition, let me remind you that this aid is complementary to any other aid and, therefore, the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands and the lobby itself can also provide aid to those who have lost their homes. Secondly, the possibility has been granted to apply for advances of housing and housing aid with a maximum amount of up to 50 % of the aid to which the beneficiary could be entitled. As you can see, this means that the aid will be granted very quickly and is absolutely incomparable to what it means to wait for the whole dossier to be resolved. Fifty-one applications have already been received, ladies and gentlemen, and will be submitted in the near future. Thirdly, in relation to a sector particularly important for the island, the Royal Decree-Law includes new aid for the agricultural and fisheries sectors. In particular, EUR 2 million for institutional campaigns on the island's products, EUR 10 million for direct aid to farmers and farmers and EUR 31 million for the primary sector of the island of La Palma, of which 13.5 million have already been paid to six banana producer organisations, which has meant that more than 2900 farmers receive aid. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, the Royal Decree-Law has suspended the obligation to pay the social security contributions of those fishermen who have not been able to go out fishing. Fifthly, in the area of culture, a grant has been established for the Canary Islands Institute for Cultural Development, amounting to EUR 150,000, to finance cultural activities on the island of La Palma. Sixthly, a postponement has been granted until 2 May 2022 for the fulfilment of the tax obligations and the declarations to be submitted before the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law that we bring for validation. Seventhly, ladies and gentlemen, companies in La Palma are given access to COVID funding lines, so that they are temporarily exempted from the obligation to maintain activity, because, as you can understand, it is incompatible with the volcanic eruption that has occurred and has affected certain business activities. Eighthly, ladies and gentlemen, we have approved a grant of EUR 17.6 million for the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands to finance actions in the field of tourism and dynamism and support for the island's SMEs. In the case of tourism, EUR 4.6 million is allocated to finance measures provided for in the recovery plan for the sector. We will subsidize air connectivity with the island of La Palma, both in destination and in origin. We will also promote within Spain a tourism campaign to visit the island of La Palma. Finally, we have approved a tourist bonus of 300 euros that can be spent within the territory of the island of La Palma during the year 2022. [[Applauds]] Just as I had the opportunity to transfer the president of the Canary Islands and also the president of the lobby, we are convinced that the reconstruction of the island that is going to be produced - that is already taking place - will give a very important value to sustainable tourism, to tourism of very high quality that we are going to get on the island of La Palma. With regard to support for SMEs, we will allocate EUR 13 million to boost economic activity on the island. In particular, there will be direct aid for companies that have suffered the eruption of the volcano and for others who want to expand their establishments or their productive capacity. We will also support the celebration of the Starmus Festival, which is one of the most important festivals in the world in relation to astronomy. Finally, the Royal Decree-Law also provides for the establishment of two working groups, the first to coordinate the restoration of infrastructure and the second to coordinate urban planning. Various meetings have already taken place. The Government of Spain will be there at all times, supporting local and regional authorities so that we can make progress in the reconstruction of the island. Ladies and gentlemen, on Christmas day the experts and the authorities concluded the eruption of the island of La Palma. The Government of Spain is still there. Fortunately, today the volcano of the island of La Palma no longer monopolizes the televisions, but we will continue there; now more than ever we will continue there, because the commitment of the Government of Spain to the reconstruction of the island of La Palma continues. Today we approved in the Council of Ministers the application of the Contingency Fund with an amount of more than EUR 20 million to finance the granting of aid to people who have lost their homes. Today, too, the interministerial commission was set up by the Spanish Government, which brings together a dozen ministries, to continue proposing measures to help rebuild all the vital projects of palm trees and palm trees that were interrupted by the volcano. We have mobilised over four months EUR 269 million, about 60% of the EUR 444 million committed. In order to have a reference of what they suppose on the island of La Palma 269 million, which is the money mobilized by the Government of Spain, I inform you that the annual budget of the lobby of the island is 180 million euros, so that we have already exceeded by far the amount of the annual budget of the lobby. Furthermore, it is also important for us to emphasize that action has been comprehensive, that it has left no sector, no person or any affected party behind. We have helped the fishing sector and the transport by military ships, agricultural workers and people who have lost their homes, businesses or establishments in whole or in part. [[The lady]] And, of course, we're also going to rebuild the infrastructure. We have a very recent example: it has taken twenty-seven days to rebuild a stretch of road on the island of La Palma. We are fulfilling in record times that had never been known in the history of the Spanish administration. At this rate we are rebuilding the island of La Palma all the administrations: the Government of Spain, the Government of the Canary Islands, the lobby of the island and the three municipalities affected. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are already 6057 palm trees and palm trees that have received aid. There are 79 who have received housing aid; 39 who have received housing in order to be able to restart their life plan; 24 who have received education aid; 807 persons who have received aid from the Insurance Compensation Consortium, with an average of more than EUR 150,000; 1435 workers who are covered by the ERTE, which we also approved in the Royal Decree-Law on aid to the island ofPalma; 726 self-employed persons who are receiving the cessation benefit; 2947 farmers and livestock farmers who have also received aid from the Government of Spain. In total, 6057. More than 6000 inhabitants of the island of La Palma have already received aid and our commitment is with them all. Until we rebuild the last life project on the island of La Palma, the Government of Spain will continue to help all palm trees and palm trees. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that for people who have lost their home or have lost their business any time is too much. We understand this and, therefore, the effort that the Government of Spain is making at the hands of the rest of the Administrations is an unprecedented effort and we will continue to do so to rebuild the island of La Palma as soon as possible. This crisis has tested the response capacity of the administrations. Both the Government of Spain and the Government of the Canary Islands, the lobby and the municipalities have made an effort in diligence and efficiency so that the palm trees and palm trees can recover as soon as possible the life they had before the eruption of the volcano. In these eighty-five days of eruption the citizenry of La Palma has been an example of integrity and its sense of civic duty deserves the full recognition of the Government and the Spanish citizenry. That is why the Government in the Council of Ministers adopted an institutional declaration on 11 January, which I would like to recall today. It is a declaration to praise the citizens' behaviour of the island's inhabitants and to call for the celebration of all the tributes and recognitions that are necessary to reiterate the commitment of the Spanish Government and the Spanish citizenry to the island of La Palma. I believe that not only do I gather the feeling of the island, but also the feeling of all the political forces and of our entire population when I say that the inhabitants of the island of La Palma have given us an example of integrity and solidarity. It has also been a good example of public management and public value. The public is there when we have greater difficulties, when we have individual difficulties in the disease or in a situation of unemployment, but especially when we have great catastrophes such as the pandemic or the eruption of the volcano. There the public is the safety net that we all have and, therefore, we have to preserve the tools that make the state and the administrations able to care for our citizens when they have greater difficulties. That is the value of the public that I want to highlight before all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to turn the volcano disaster on the island of La Palma into opportunities for the island; we are going to rebuild the island and we are going to do it better. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that all of you will act in the best possible way, that you will do politics with capital and with a high eye, that you will recognize the work that we are doing by all administrations to rebuild the island and that you will be aware that what you are doing here to validate this decree-law is to help people who have had difficulties, in this case, the inhabitants of the island. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe will be speaking first of all in the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again, everyone and everyone. Minister, thank you very much for your explanation, by the way, in a tone we share. We cannot deny - and we welcome this - that the response to the misfortune suffered by the brothers on the island of Palma has been a broad response from all the administrations involved: the Government of Spain, the Government of the Canary Islands and local corporations. This is something we must congratulate ourselves on. It is also true that the damage that has occurred is a singular damage in relation to the catastrophes that could serve as a reference in the Spanish State in recent times. Under no circumstances had the houses been buried; the land had not even remained, but a bad country had remained. This is something I'll refer to later. Having listened to you, I am sure that if the compromise is up to the reconstruction and total recovery of the damage, this royal decree-laws one more step but sure it will not be a definitive step. He has already announced that, of course, we will validate this royal decree-law. We believe that there are a wide range of measures that we believe will help the most affected sectors. Of course, there is a clear question: we must start with the infrastructures necessary to recover economic activity. Look what happens to the plantains who, because they can't, can't even water. Look, the volcano has helped us to understand how important bananas are in the Canary Islands. Some advantage had to have this. He stressed, therefore, the need to rebuild infrastructure. Another absolutely dramatic issue is that of the people who have lost the housing and the land on which the housing was based. This is a very important issue to take into account. We must also try to get the job back. There I believe that there are various and multiple plans and projects; I am well aware of those of the Canary Islands Government, I believe that they are in the right direction and that this package of measures helps. He also highlighted the issue of the most affected economic sectors. Palma is very dependent on certain sectors - specifically agriculture and fisheries - and, therefore, that is where a great deal of effort needs to be made. What about self-employed people and small and medium-sized enterprises? Now, a question about housing. These EUR 60 000 that are now being raised are in fact much more than the initial EUR 15 000 set out in the 2005 royal decree which contemplates these things, but some other precedent we have to look for. We will agree that with 60,000 euros is fine, but it is certain that 60,000 euros do not solve the problem of who has lost housing and soil. On the ground, I know that the Canary Islands Government is working to see how this can be helped, but I have to give you a background: the Lorca earthquake in 2011, after which we all support what had to be supported. A new royal decree was made establishing that compensation for the loss of habitual housing had to be up to 80 per cent of an official protective housing of 90 square metres. This figure at that time meant some EUR 80,000 per dwelling and now, at current prices, we believe it would be around EUR 90,000. Therefore, I would like to ask you that this figure needs to be revised. It is much better than the EUR 60,000 that is set - this is clear - but I believe that, if we compare it, the damage in this case is greater. I'm not going to say that the people of Lorca didn't suffer what they suffered, but I do say they kept their ground. In this case, he disappeared. We believe that it is necessary to review this issue and that this is not going to be the last royal decree-law, and we are sure that there is time to adapt that figure to the reality of the present times, because, if not, people simply will not be able to recover their home. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas GonzálezMoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the palm trees affected by the volcano continue to struggle to recover their lives after the eruption. All the administrations - nobody doubts it - have made an effort to mobilize funds in favor of the island and this royal decree-law improves the amounts, but it remains insufficient. Therefore, today we echo the demands of the people affected, because it is they who must have the voice here. Firstly, that the aid approved by all the administrations should already be paid. The funds are coming, but very slowly. It is necessary for those who have suffered this misfortune to know that it is true that aid will come. Please note that of the nearly 4000 applications, 79 housing destruction aid has been paid - of 4000, 79 - and 19 for loss of income. Secondly, that such aid should be extended to all those affected and that the goods should be valued at the real price by means of aid or subsidies, i.e. through the purchase or expropriation of the land, as proposed by the Spanish College of Notaries. Thirdly, the aid for those who have suffered damage to their homes and who are now returning to their homes extends to 100 % of the repair they must make, since it now covers only 50 % of the damage they have suffered. They are people who have come out with what they put on; people who worked thirty or fifty years in Venezuela and have absolutely nothing. Fourth, that the island's health system is strengthened by the recovery of lost infrastructure, as well as by the immediate implementation of a mental health plan to help the psychological recovery of those affected. By the way, in the State General Budgets they voted against this extraordinary aid for a mental health plan. Fifth, that a consortium or similar entity is created that brings together all administrations and includes those affected to propose the recovery of the lost neighbourhoods and that faces the reconstruction tasks that prevent the uprooting and emigration of the population. Sixth, that economic and fiscal measures be adopted that really encourage the economic recovery of a devastated island. The delay in taxes when you have no income and you have lost everything is a number for the purposes of the National Finance, but it is not a help for someone who has nothing. Palm trees and palm trees are an example for this country; an example of resistance, of endurance, of how to face a misfortune from unity and mutual support. Spanish society has responded and the Administration must rise to the challenge. Palms and palms must know that this whole Congress, regardless of the political forces to which we belong, is with them. Money will not return their homes or memories or repair the loss of the remains of their loved ones, but money gives them the hope that they can build a new life on that beautiful island that they do not want to leave. Minister, I understand that you give the numbers you give, but the fact that you have transferred 200 million to the Government of the Canary Islands does not mean that you have reached those affected. You add ERTE, unemployment, tax breaks or tax deferral. The consortium has paid the banks that have cancelled their debts in advance. They have not reached most of the affected. I don't blame you, what I'm telling you is, this is no good. This doesn't work, and people want certainties.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u28	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u29	I'm done, Madam President. The only thing I ask of all the spokespersons - I was going to ask the president and I know that the Socialist spokesman will help me in that - is that we make a trip to La Palma to listen directly to all the sectors concerned, as the European Parliament has done and as many of the senators have done. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u31	Thank you, President. I'll speak from the seat very briefly. My group, of course, as it did in the previous aid decree to La Palma, will vote in favour of validation, because basically what is being done is to increase or supplement aid to alleviate damage to housing, as well as to adopt measures to support the agricultural, cultural and fishing sectors, and also measures related to social security in relation to benefits. Furthermore, we understand that the Government does not have to leave anyone behind and that it is the public administrations that must repair all this damage. On the other hand, it must also be said that this decree not only talks about aid to La Palma, but there is also a change in the conditions for access to the Recapitalisation Fund for companies affected by COVID, so that companies in any sector with a net turnover of between 10 and 400 million will be able to access it. In this regard, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law and we are going to vote no to the processing as a bill, because it is necessary that the aid reach the persons concerned as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon at this beginning of parliamentary activity in this year 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, 85 days of eruption set the longest period, since there have been records, of eruptions on Bonita Island, on the island of La Palma. The estimated volume of the volcanic building has been 34 million cubic metres and the total volume of material emitted has been more than 200 million cubic metres. The shells launched by the volcano have reached up to a mile and a half of the cone and the surface of the colada has been 1219 hectares with an estimated average thickness of 12 meters, although there are areas where it has reached up to 70 meters buried in lava. It is true that the figures never tell us anything if we have nothing to compare them with. This data that I mentioned to you before is as if all the Eixample and the Ciutat Vella of Barcelona were covered in a mantle of between three and twenty floors high. That is the reality of what has caused the volcano of La Palma. The buildings affected were 1676, according to the cadastre; according to the Copernicus satellite, they were 2988. There's more than 1,000 differences. Mr Bolaños, I think we should try to reconcile these figures in some way. Let's see what happens when these data can be crossed with reality, because it would be useful to know the reality of the housing affected. The agricultural hectares affected have been 370, the majority of bananas, but also vineyards and avocados of the island's farmers have been affected. Roads and roads have been seriously affected, as we have all seen on television. In addition, throughout this period of activity of the volcano, we know that the President of the Government has gone to La Palma repeatedly, we have seen it. The gestures, Mr Bolaños, are important, but the gestures without rapid and effective help are not worth anything. The gestures without matter, the gestures without background are not gestures, Mr Bolaños, they are frightening. Knowing monclovita philosophy, we know the risk of everything being left in photos, handcuffs and fake empathy. The palm trees, Mr Bolaños, have already known what aid delays mean, because they have already known what an aid decree is and already know what it means to not receive anything, or practically nothing, from the aid of that royal decree. We will support this royal decree, Mr Bolaños, but it is up to the government to comply. It's not just worth the scarecrows bringing in the royal decree, approving it and coming to validate it. You have to get it executed. The important thing is the execution, as the budget execution is important in the various ministries of the General Administration. The important thing is that it is fulfilled, that the aid arrives. You have the responsibility for reconstruction. It is not the palm trees that have the responsibility for reconstruction, it is you, gentlemen of the Government. You are quick to comply with your partners in matters that may even be very damaging to Spain, and I would ask you to be quick with the Spanish when they need it. We know that reconstruction is complex, that lava is a lot and that the temperature inside it is still too high to start working in any of the areas, but I think this is no excuse for aid to take longer than is necessary for its processing. Mr Bolaños, you are talking about speeding up and we agree that aid should be speeded up, but why do you have a decree to speed up aid? Because the previous royal decree was worthless, it proved ineffective. And we told him. When that decree was validated my partner told him - it wasn't me on that occasion -. We told him that this royal decree did not provide the necessary aid in terms of the speed of what was to be done. You tell us today that it is being done at an extraordinary speed, but the reality of palm trees is not that and you are being told every day. We are glad that you have rectified. Maybe when they rectify they're right. Let's see if this is the case and it is not necessary, even, a third royal decree because this is not going to work. I wish it wasn't like that. It is in your hands, of course, that this is not so. In addition, together with the reconstruction of infrastructure and public services, there is the reconstruction of the vital projects of the thousands of palm trees that have been affected. So the first and most important thing - I believe - is that the government of the nation, as well as the canary and islander, guarantee this funding for the enormous work ahead. However, the need for rapid reconstruction, ladies and gentlemen, cannot mean a repressive and disorderly reconstruction. A serious and calm debate is needed on how to address the integration of what is now a catastrophic area, but with undeniable scientific and natural value, with the new urban, economic and social reality of the island. The three types of aid covered by this decree are necessary and complementary to those of the previous decree. We are glad that the amounts in the compensation provided for the loss of housing are double. We are pleased that the agricultural and fisheries sector in La Palma also has additional aid, with up to EUR 10 million in aid, to alleviate the effects of collage and ash on farms. We are pleased that there are institutional publicity measures to encourage the consumption of these agricultural products, although I believe that EUR 2 million for these campaigns is insufficient, Minister. But above all we are glad that the cultural sector is also subsidized by the Canary Institute for Cultural Development, an entity attached to the Government of the Autonomous Community, and that these cultural and artistic activities directed at the affected population benefit the rest of the society, also Spanish, which is going to be linked to them. It's over, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mr Bolaños, as we have seen many times in this legislature, the role endures everything, but the lives of the people affected by the volcano of La Palma deserve what is promised here. Don't leave the thousands of affected palm trees lying around again. They manage less and do more, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u35	Good afternoon. First of all, I join my colleague Txema Guijarro's words and I also make a mention of comrade Meri Pita for the issue we are dealing with at this point in the plenary session today. This afternoon, in an extraordinary plenary session, the Government brings for its validation a royal decree-law to continue on the path of aid for the reparation of damages caused by the eruption of the volcano in El Paso and for the economic and social recovery of the population of La Palma. Since September, as a result of the eruption of the volcano - we have to regret the death of one person - we have seen how thousands of homes have been destroyed and over 350 hectares of crops destroyed. The Central Government and also the Government of the Canary Islands reacted diligently and the recognition of the area seriously affected by an emergency of Civil Protection, a royal decree with an injection of 10.5 million for housing and in October a royal decree-law with measures of protection for the population from what was an absolute reversal of the lives of the people living and working on the island. If in that first royal decree-law the measures were focused on the social protection of employment and housing, in which we are dealing today, the housing measures also are reinforced, the tax measures, those affecting the sectors of agriculture and fisheries and the cultural sector and those of those who work at sea on their own. On housing, although major injections of money were made in those early agreements, the destruction of homes has been such that there is still a need for involvement by the General Administration of the State both for those who have seen their home completely ruined and for those who face damage or damage to common elements. Tax issues are for an extension of the deadline for declarations due in December last year. In addition, agricultural and cultural activities have been suspended, each within its own sphere, due to both the damage caused and the other resulting problems, and this Government does what it does is to get involved. It is also necessary to claim the products of La Palma with a campaign that recognizes and encourages them. Also, the autonomous persons working at sea, if they have seen their activity ceased because of the damage caused by the volcano, will be exempt from the payment of social security contributions, a matter of pure justice that we have unfortunately not seen in dealing with other crises. In culture, in the interest of the Ministry of Culture itself for this situation, from the Canary Institute of Cultural Development a series of projects are presented for La Palma, coordinated mainly with the municipality of Los Llanos de Aridane and the island lobby. I stress this because it seems to me significant that the process of recovery is understood by the Government - we therefore welcome it - the importance of cultural activity in terms of both the productive model and the social model of identity, exchange and also of dignity. All these measures have their meaning, reason and usefulness. It is verified how the measures of the royal decree of October have been managed: 5 million euros transferred for such urgent aid by the Ministry of Social Rights, of which 4.4 million from the State Secretariat of Agenda 2030 corresponded there and another 600,000 euros to the Secretariat of Social Rights. Because material issues are not solved with photos or proclamations, but with injections of public money intended for protection and reconstruction when they are badly given. We are also pleased that, in view of the proposal made by the State Secretariat of Agenda 2030 to the La Palma Council to set up a plan to rebuild the island with criteria of energy sustainability, so that it is self-sufficient in alternative energies, the answer has been that its study will be evaluated. The difficult situation that the people of La Palma are going through requires a process to rebuild, and it is time to think about what the foundations are and whether we can move forward in a process that is more environmentally sustainable and more socially just. The commitment of the Government and my parliamentary group is clearly in that direction, a commitment that has also been seen with the important Special Employment and Training Plan that has emerged from the Ministry of Labour: 63 million to meet the new training needs, the development of career guidance and the reorientation of business activities to promote social economy, additional support for those who have been in ERTE and have very low benefits and a deployment of plans to allow qualification and training to be reoriented to the new scenario and the maintenance of jobs in the especially damaged sectors. At a time like this I will be allowed to insist: politics, institutions, yes, they are useful, they are when they put the priority of their action in common, in people, in guaranteeing rights and improving material conditions. This Government does a lot of policy that is barely mentioned, which is useful, which improves lives. I don't want this to sound at all self-complacent, because there is a lot of work left, and we are the first to remember it. I insist on this because there are those who are interested in politics being just the noise that they themselves want to generate and that makes it seem useless. Moreover, to this day that principle that nothing can be improved is never false, and that only benefits those who already have power without attending any election. The ability to change things for people is found in the Official State Gazette, in the general budgets, in the real emergency decrees in the face of pressing problems such as this. That is why we are voting in favour today. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the natural disaster caused by the volcano of La Palma was the perfect occasion for the Social Communist Government of President Sánchez to amend, at least at the very least, the progressive deterioration of his image by over-motivating since the beginning of the legislature: the betrayal of the electoral promises not to agree with the Communists of Podemos or with the Filoetatras of Bildu, the Delcygate scandal and the thousand versions of Minister Ábalos, the unconstitutionality of the states of alarm and the kidnapping of Congress, the invasion of the mafias of illegal immigration, the rapprochement of terrorists to approve the budgets and a long et cetera. It was the perfect opportunity to fulfill, at least in favor of a very small number of Spaniards, with that slogan of 'do not leave anyone behind' with which they have deceived the Spaniards since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Applauds]] It was the perfect occasion, but President Sánchez for all he has served is to show off his complete ineptitude to solve the problems of the Spaniards. So many times in Falcon the president and ministers for what? Nothing at all. It is not a personal opinion, it is a general opinion, ladies and gentlemen. I am surprised that those who are theoretically representatives of the people, and especially of the palm trees, are so satisfied with this situation because it is not the reality. Yesterday the palm trees went out into the street, after a month that the volcanic activity ended, to highlight the drama that the palm trees live. On October 28, they also interviewed an illustrious resident of La Palma at COPE Lanzarote, just before he touched me, and I was lucky enough to hear these words. I literally read: 'You haven't got a euro from the administrations, you haven't got a euro from the administrations. It's been over 40 days and the ones that's left. You don't have to be there so much, you have to figure it out and point it out.' That hassle over the journeys in the Falcon in order not to solve anything is manifested by a gentleman named Jerónimo Saavedra - I don't know if he sounds to them -, a declared Mason, President of the Government of the Canary Islands, twice minister and I don't know if he is still a socialist militant. [[Applauds]] As for the content of the actual decree that is intended to be validated today, it is inevitable for me to highlight the difference between how the Spaniards who have suffered this drama and the non-Spanishs, whose need is not even to be believed. It will be one more edition of mathematics to progress. First elemental premise: money is a scarce and therefore limited resource. Well, for those who have lost everything - total destruction of habitual housing - the only thing that is expected is 60 480 euros. That money is the one that will receive a family that has stayed on the street, with nothing. On the other side of the comparison, we see how illegal immigrants who violate our borders and refuse to provide any documentation and information, the State rewards them by financing their stay in establishments at 120 euros a day. Remember the figure: only in 126 days four immigrants have consumed exactly the same amount. They don't have to worry about where they're going to sleep, where they're going to have breakfast or where they're going to eat. [[Applauds]] And there are already more than 40,000 illegal immigrants who have arrived in the last two years in the Canary Islands. Make the numbers, if they're capable. As they so like to quote Pope Francis, despite being declared persecutors of the Church as laymen and communists, I will tell you a fundamental aspect of the Catholic doctrine that any child of the first year of catechesis of first communion knows, to see if they fall off the horse - indeed, today Christians celebrate the conversion of the Apostle Paul -. I guess you'll know that charity is ordered by definition, because if it's not ordered by definition, it wouldn't be a virtue anymore, it would become a perversion, like a perverted father who snatches bread from his hungry children to give it to those who don't even know it. With the treatment that was being given to illegal immigrants in three- and four-star hotels, the Canary Islands had been imagining and thinking about what would happen when the Canary Islands again had another fire or catastrophe. Will they put us back in the pavilions? Indeed, that was what happened. The day after the eruption I was there, in La Palma, in the El Fuerte quarter, and they did not let me in, precisely because that difference of treatment was evident. I am also obliged to remind your lords of the People's Party that their pact with the PSOE to distribute the Cabildo de La Palma and the City of Santa Cruz de La Palma, as they did in Lanzarote, has left the palm trees completely orphaned by public representatives who fight for their interests in the face of the meekness of the amount of the aid and the delay in its processing. For this reason, Minister Bolaños is allowed here today to praise the president of the Cabildo de La Palma, in the same way that Pablo Iglesias congratulated Pablo Casado on the motion of censure. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you have betrayed your voters by giving up any opposition just so that you can stay in the Government's armchairs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they lie when they say that they are the opposition to the PSOE, they lie blatantly and that farce makes their betrayal even more serious. With a government of socialists and communists we do not even aspire to improve aid for illegal immigrants, but we do demand that it be at least the same amount. Although he has forgotten his main obligation is to help and protect the Spaniards, and if they are not willing to do so, what they have to do is resign, call elections and allow the Spaniards to put them in their place for their lies and betrayals. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u38	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Ledesma Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u39	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As it could not be otherwise, I would like to begin by again bearing witness on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to our deep solidarity and affection. I want to give a message of encouragement to the palm trees of the municipalities that have suffered the most from the eruption of the volcano, such as Los Llanos de Aridane, El Paso or Tazacorte, so that sooner or later they can start to permanently normalize their vital circumstances. It is also fair to continue to recognize the enormous and difficult task that the human teams of the island lobby of La Palma and of the affected municipalities, together with the Scientific Security Forces and Bodies, have carried out for their great unpayable efforts throughout the development of the eruptive process. The volcano has turned off, but the devastating consequences of it persist. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the great challenge of meeting the palm trees, of not defrauding them, of being able to live up to the circumstances, of responding to all those people who have lost everything because of that volcano. I am hopeful that we will all move in the same direction, that we will respond quickly and agilely to the suffering of those people who only expect us to apply the principle of solidarity embodied in our Constitution. Acts, quick answers, not nice words and visits are needed. People don't eat with pictures. Minister Bolaños appears here today to request the validation of this Royal Decree-Law 28/2021. Indeed, in the case before us, the first sin of the socialist government has been the lack of an elementary planning of the reconstruction of La Palma, in the midst of this eruptive process that has lasted for several months. That's too much reason. Yes, Minister, because although they say that it is never too late if the saying is good, for the sake of responsibility from my group we are not going to miss today the opportunity to amend the plan. It is incomprehensible that they carry on patching up insufficient actions, to towing and rebuking events, while over the last few months thousands of desperate palm trees, in many cases overnight, saw their whole lives set up, being deprived of access to the most elementary resources. Mr Bolaños, this is not about leading a ranking of your movements or of your boss Sánchez to La Palma, or calling meetings without an interministerial commission to look at the faces and look like you're doing what you're doing. Palm citizens cannot find greater capacity to overreact in social actors or in the solidarity response of many organised civil society groups than in the response capacity of the competent public authorities, as that means that the State does not function. I say to him without any acrid - and I am delighted with his intervention and the tone in which he has made it - that in the spirit of this humble representative of the province of Santa Cruz de Tenerife there is not the motivation to make a carousing policy on account of a misfortune as great as that which the palm citizens are suffering, because my peasants are not for trouble and it would be unforgivable to do otherwise. I am not going to say that some aid has not arrived, of course, but, as many representatives have said, it has been insufficient. In addition, no one misses the innumerable images and testimonies of neighbors and palm trees astounded by the country's television, radio and press, complaining that the time was still running out while the aid personally committed by Mr Sánchez did not arrive. Moreover, all this was happening in the midst of a series of bureaucratic hindrances of incomprehensible justification that has not yet been resolved. Exceptional situations, exceptional measures. That's what we're asking. Two contributions, which have also been made by the canarian administrations, Minister: if they really want to give agility, all works should be declared emergency, and they should also opt for that single register. Therefore, of course, we ask that this royal decree-law be treated as a bill so that we can be willing to incorporate improvements and, as it cannot be otherwise, we will support the validation of this royal decree-law. First, the main criticism is the lack of planning and diligence, the lack of agility to provide adequate solutions and the provision of resources and tools to its final recipients, where the Government of Pedro Sánchez has in no way lived up to the needs expected of the affected, palm society and the Canary Islands as a whole. Secondly, we criticise the adoption of patches such as this royal decree of unrelated measures, which is the subject of debate today, rather than the adoption from the very beginning of a genuine comprehensive reconstruction plan, as the People's Group has been calling for. In fact, I would like to recall briefly, without going any further, that during the parliamentary process of the general state budgets for 2022 this group raised through numerous amendments the need to articulate a comprehensive plan consisting of an extraordinary plan for the replacement of infrastructure and housing on the island of La Palma. The main objective was the replacement of preferred road network infrastructure, as well as measures to support the land transport network, urban and rural infrastructure for collective use, housing replacement and extraordinary measures for damage to housing. The budget of this plan was EUR 1 billion, which we requested on a multiannual basis, with a first amount of EUR 200 million, compatible with the other aid to those affected and, in particular, those redefined in the previous Royal Decree-Law 20/2021. Likewise, together with the previous plan, we demand more ambitious specific measures to protect self-employed workers on the island of La Palma, tax incentives, a local employment plan accompanied by EUR 5 million, etc. Finally, and no less important, he says that this programme of subsidies for the transport of canary bananas has reached all sectors, to which you have allocated a pirical figure of 10 million euros which barely covers - according to us, not - 30% of the actual costs, when precisely our REF stipulates 100%. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. Works are love and not good reasons.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u40	Mr. Ledesma, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u41	Socialists, I repeat, this is not about slogans, 'La Palma renaiss', but about implementing the necessary measures. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Ledesma. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u43	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Last December the volcanic eruption of the island of La Palma came to an end, after eighty-five days loaded with images and overwhelming testimonies for the personal and material losses suffered by the island's citizens. At that time, we all celebrated the end of the road to destruction of homes, schools, health centres, crops and businesses, which in many cases ended with the main livelihood of palm trees and palm trees. Since the beginning of this crisis, the strength and resilience of the neighbours of La Palma and also that of the whole country, which has fallen with the island with constant expressions of affection and solidarity, have been at the forefront of the crisis. But, besides, today we all have the certainty that institutional cooperation is possible to work together, thinking uniquely and exclusively about the well-being of the citizenry, leaving aside ideological differences. That's what we thought, until we heard the ladies of VOX today. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you have crossed a line today: you have failed to respect the citizens of La Palma. Human tragedy cannot be used to promote fascist and electoral suffloit, talking about Venezuela, terrorism and immigrants. [[Applauds]] We're talking about the tragedy La Palma has experienced. A little respect, and don't make us feel ashamed, please, of the rest of the House. When the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, heard the news of the end of the eruption, he said: We will continue to work together and together all the institutions to relaunch the wonderful island of La Palma and repair the damage caused. To this end, we are here today to validate a real decree that allows us to continue to give a responsible and committed response from the Government with La Palma, with its citizens, with its workers, with the economy, fulfilling the commitment made by the President and by all the members of his Government, who had the opportunity to live, feel and share what was happening on the island with its inhabitants on numerous occasions. The answer must also be cross-cutting in all areas - in the social sphere, in the workplace, in the public prosecutor's office, in the health sector and also in the scientific sector - hence the Council of Ministers, on 17 December 2021, adopted a royal decree-law with complementary measures of an urgent nature, which allow to expand and speed up the existing aid for the reconstruction and relaunching of the economy of the island of La Palma. A real decree with a subsidy, as the minister mentioned, to the autonomous community of 17.5 million euros for the tourism sector and support for SMEs. It has also approved an agreement for the construction, equipment and exploitation of the ocean platform of the Canary Islands, also betting on science. The approved measures reinforce housing, farmers, farmers and seamen's aid. The road of reconstruction begins, the road for the affected neighbours and neighbours to resume their lives as soon as possible, being aware that it is not an easy road as we would all like. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the response must therefore be adaptive, with measures and funding tailored to the needs that have arisen, but also to those that are emerging. More than EUR 265 million and 60% of the planned 446 have been mobilised so far. We are aware that the recovery of the island is because its inhabitants recover their homes and build their homes. That is why measures have been taken in the area of habitual housing which, for my group, are of vital importance, such as doubling aid, increasing the ceiling from 30 000 to 60,000, and which, moreover, are complementary to the compensation already received by those affected by the Insurance Compensation Consortium, and also to aid from other territorial administrations, such as the Government of the Canary Islands or the Island Cabildo de La Palma. But it is also necessary to resume economic activity by adopting measures to support the restoration of the island's main economic sectors, such as agriculture and fisheries. There are new aid of 12 million to compensate for the damage caused by volcanic activity; in total, more than 30 million are mobilized for the sector; and in addition, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food will carry out advertising campaigns to promote the consumption of agricultural and fishery products affected by the eruption. Another key sector for the Canary Islands as a whole, but also for La Palma, is the tourism sector, and we consider it vitally important to approve this plan for the recovery of the tourism sector with special incentives for the improvement of the air connectivity of La Palma, which will allow to subsidize airlines on flights operating with La Palma and the rest of the national territory or flights abroad. In short, ladies and gentlemen, these are just some of the measures envisaged in this royal decree, measures that show that the Government does not forget La Palma, but are also measures that solve problems with just and effective solutions. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank those who voted in favour, and I reiterate, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, our commitment to palm citizens and to continue working to make their lives as similar as they had before the eruption, and to ensure that all this happens and allows them to continue living on their island. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Raya. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 29/2021 OF 21 DECEMBER, BY WHICH EMERGENCY MEASURES ARE TAKEN IN THE ENERGY FRAMEWORK FOR ELECTRIC MOBILITY, SELF-CONSUMPTION AND RENEWABLE ENERGY [[File number 130/000069]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u45	We turn to the last item on the agenda: validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 29/2021 of 21 December, adopting urgent energy measures to promote electricity mobility, self-consumption and the deployment of renewable energies. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u46	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I address you at the beginning of a complicated year, in line with the year 2021, complicated also in the energy field, and I do so to present the Royal Decree-Law 29/2021 of 21 December, by which we take urgent measures in the energy field, and to request its validation. It is a decree-law with which we have wanted to promote the promotion of electric mobility, self-consumption and the deployment of renewable energies, and extend the tax reduction to electric consumers until March and April. All these measures are in addition to the substantive work that we continue to promote, as well as a complex European debate in a difficult context on what are the most successful responses to the current energy crisis, both from a structural and a cyclical point of view. Reducing costs and volatility necessarily goes through the energy transition. There's no alternative. We must take advantage of local renewable resources, we must support citizens and industry, and we must act diligently, probably much faster than we originally planned. These are some of the issues necessary to accelerate the future of the transition to which this Decree Law refers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u47	Excuse me, Madam Vice President, a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u48	Appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u49	I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u50	Thank you very much, President. He said that in this quest to accelerate an essential transformation, necessary in a context of volatility, high volatility of the prices of energy raw materials, this decree-law takes some important measures to speed up many of the procedures that today represent a barrier to the deployment of electric mobility, to the possibility of accelerating self-consumption, to promote the measures that facilitate the development of the PERTE of Renewable Energy, Hydrogen and Storage, which we approved last December. In addition, we consolidate consumer protection at this time of high prices of natural gas, which so negatively affect the electricity market. I began my speech by pointing out that the year 2021 has been a year full of turbulence in the field of energy, prompted by an extraordinary mismatch in the international markets of raw materials, partly by a context of post-pandemic recovery much faster than we expected in the Asian markets, partly by geopolitical tensions that today do not seem to see the end soon. All this time our commitment as a government has been unequivocal: to protect consumers, families and industries from a price escalation that poses added difficulties to the process of essential recovery in which we are already immersed. We have always wanted to pay special attention to the most vulnerable consumers. We are faced with an extremely complex situation, in which many of the determining factors do not depend on the decision of one Government or another. Therefore, to the extent that it threatens to endure more than initially expected by international agencies, we must be agile, swift and constant. We cannot waste time, we must be agile - I said - in structural changes, but also in short-term measures. This decree-law incorporates measures aligned with the European Union, with which we continue to work to adopt solutions that mitigate the impact of gas prices on the electricity market. It is true that it is not easy, but it is also true that we are not yet satisfied with the response that we have found from Europe, in markets such as electricity, supported by common regulation. We are not satisfied with the possibility that solutions will depend on the size of the pocket, the budget and the fiscal capacity of the citizens of each Member State. We want solutions shared by all. Meanwhile, we consider it appropriate to maintain the tax reduction of the electricity bill of domestic consumers. We know that, in addition, part of this transformation in a context like this, that of recovery, requires us to think about how to boost electric mobility, perhaps one of the areas to which Spain has joined most late, for which there was practically no measure when we arrived at the government in 2018. According to data from the Business Association for the Development and Impulse of Electrical Mobility, the year 2021 was closed with 42% more registrations of electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids and, despite this, we are still on the line in Europe. Our industry can't miss the train. Our workers in the sector don't either. But our citizens, our country, our economy, neither. This demand requires the deployment of recharge infrastructure in line with social expectations in order to ensure the successful implementation of the electric vehicle. For this reason, the Decree-Law introduces new measures of flexibility of authorizations, tax subsidies and changes in the regulations of the recharge infrastructures that will directly affect, allowing the removal of barriers for the proper development of electric mobility. On the one hand, we facilitate the implementation of recharging points on the land surrounding the roads of the National Road Network of the State, with the aim of achieving a massive installation of service stations that gives coverage and flexibility to the supply of users. On the other hand, new obligations are introduced for the installation of electric charging infrastructure for concession contracts, implemented on 22 May 2021, on State road networks established by the State Roads Act. Finally, it is stipulated that the installation of the charging points is exempted from the prior obtaining of the licenses of works, operation or activity, sufficient with a simple declaration responsible of the holder. The objective is clear, to facilitate the installation of a hundred thousand recharge points before the end of 2023. The charging infrastructure targets extend to the building park. Before the end of this year 2023 all buildings of use other than private residential, excluding those protected for reasons of heritage or architectural reasons, which have parking spaces with more than twenty seats, shall have an electric vehicle charging infrastructure in accordance with the following format: one charging station for each forty parking spaces, up to one thousand parking spaces, and one more for each hundred additional spaces, and in buildings of the State General Administration one for every twenty parking spaces, up to five hundred parking spaces. In addition, the Decree-Law introduces the possibility for municipalities to regulate a bonus of up to 50 % of the IBI's full share in buildings where charging points for electric vehicles have been installed, a bonus of up to 50 % of the corresponding share for taxable persons taxing by municipal quota, and that they have installed charging points for electric vehicles, and also a bonus of up to 90 % of the constructions, installations or works necessary for the installation of charging points for electric vehicles. All of these measures, which we want to help drive forward a very important change in the pattern of mobility, a very important change in the type of vehicles that are placed on our market. In line with these previous measures, a sanctioning regime for electricity distributors is incorporated into the legal system if it does not meet deadlines when providing information on the technical and economic conditions of the charging point installation; our distributors cannot be a bottleneck in this deployment. A new type of sanction is also introduced on the obligation of recharging points at service stations; nor can gasoline and automotive fuel distributors be. I would like to remind you that these measures are complemented by aid to cover the development of these infrastructures. The Moves II and III plans, the latter with a budget of up to 800 million euros, have been and are being successful, with a different timetable of implementation by the Autonomous Communities, but I can say that in the first four months of effective validity of the Moves III call more than 27 500 applications worth 256 million euros have been received, and the available budget allocations for the recharge points in thirteen of the Autonomous Communities have been exhausted. In this same vein, on 21 December, we adopted in the Council of Ministers a real decree to digitize the electricity distribution networks and to boost the charging infrastructure for electric vehicles on the public road, equipped with 525 million euros of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. As I said, all of them with which we want to accelerate the recovery of a backlog accumulated for years. But perhaps one of the most emblematic aspects of the new energy model is self-consumption, a self-consumption that we have been pushing since 2018. We began, now three and a half years ago, with the repeal of the very popularly known and proven sun-tax, which caused us to lose some very valuable years to develop our energy transition and take advantage of the opportunities of our geography. We continue with Decree-Law 244/2019, which has definitively removed the self-consumption solutions at a rate of 600 megawatts per year, as evidenced by business associations in the sector. But let me share with you the latest: in 2021, this particularly hard year, 1151 megawatts of self-consumption have been installed, 85% more than in 2020. Let's think that our goal was 9 gigawatts by 2030; I think today we can think that this goal is short, we need more self-consumption, faster, better integrated and more supported, an opportunity that neither Spain nor the Spanish can miss. Because we do not settle, we want to continue working to facilitate their deployment, breaking down the barriers we identify with industry agents and consumers, moving forward in this way in an orderly manner based on the previous experience that has allowed us to learn how to manage it better and better. Self-consumption allows us to reduce the household bill to 70%, which in a context of high prices such as this is particularly necessary and more profitable than ever. Therefore, together with the measures introduced in this royal decree-law, on the same day that we approved this text in the Council of Ministers, we also approved the Road Map of Self-Consumption, a road map that will boost the installation of these at least 9 gigawatts by 2030, and can be increased to 14 if we achieve a good and fruitful mobilizing effect. In a country like ours, where much of the population lives in housing blocks, the development of collective self-consumption is a priority and, therefore, some of the barriers identified are overcome and corrected in this royal decree-law. For example, we modify on the basis of what was learned by Royal Decree 244/2019, allowing the possibility of performing collective self-consumption through the network, regardless of the level of tension, being previously limited only to low tension, in order to be able to incorporate in an orderly way the penetration of self-consumption into this common learning. We also do something very important, such as encouraging and facilitating the installation of self-consumption systems. All projects less than 100 kilowatts associated with any of the surplus self-consumption modalities are exempted, since the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law, from presenting economic guarantees for processing; support for small installations by reducing their associated costs. Indispensable, small, repeated capillary. On the other hand, in order to facilitate the processing and discharge of self-consumption facilities, the obligation is introduced that distributors have free channels to contact them for queries, requests for information or complaints, through free telephones or e-mails. Transparency, communication and relationship with each citizen reduce barriers and facilitate the penetration of self-consumption. Finally, as with recharging points, the sanctioning regime is updated to avoid delays in processing and discharge of facilities that may have a disincentive effect. Ladies and gentlemen, our commitment and commitment to renewable energy in its various forms, as the main tool for decarbonisation, together with energy efficiency and electrification, are unquestionable. We are heading towards a scenario of high renewable penetration, with energies, such as wind, that have already led the electric generation during 2021, or like the photovoltaic, that has exceeded the 14 gigawatts installed, creating a new record of new plant in our country. But this appetite for investment in projects in Spain, while placing us in the international rankings as one of the best countries to invest in for the energy transition, must be put into practice in an orderly manner and with all guarantees. According to the ranking developed periodically by the Ernst and Young consultant, we are already in the world's top ten. Thanks to the measures taken in these years, we have regained many positions since, as a result of the previous policy, Spain fell to the number 27 position in 2017, years of regressive and paralysing energy transition policies that have fallen behind, fortunately. The attractive investor and the potential of Spain have made the stock exchange of projects in processing grow far above the management capacity of the administrations, which explains why the great avalanche of requests and the difficulty in their proper management have caused the councillors of all the autonomous communities to request, at the meeting of the Sectoral Conference of Energy held on 9 December, an extension of the intermediate milestones of processing of the projects, which we agreed unanimously at this meeting and which we have transferred to this royal decree-law, which I already propose to them by the Council of Ministers for validation. This request is also answered by the Royal Decree-Law, which extends the deadline for the completion of the intermediate milestones relating to the declaration of environmental impact and to the prior administrative authorizations and deconstruction, by nine months, without extending the total period of five years for the final milestone of obtaining the final administrative authorization of exploitation, with the consequent entry into operation of the installation. We want to resolve this stock of dossiers with all guarantees for citizens and businesses, to do so with agility, strengthening the teams of the General Administration of the State, of the Peripheral Administration in the sub-delegations of the Government and, of course, the teams of all the autonomous communities, in administrative coordination bilaterally and collectively with all the autonomous governments. We also set up a window in which promoters who wish to voluntarily renounce access and connection permits within one month, since the adoption of the decree-law, could do so in exchange for the guarantees they presented, a deadline that ended last Sunday 23 January and whose consequences we are assessing at this very moment. Renewable deployment inevitably involves the commitment to new and innovative technologies for which Spain has great potential, such as marine wind energy, a technology whose roadmap we approved also last December and in which we set ourselves the goal of reaching up to the 3 megawatts installed in 2030, but we must do so sequentially, learning before. For this reason, the decree-law introduces the possibility that those marine wind installations that already have prior administrative authorization or associated with prototypes and installations with an experimental and R+D+i component can be processed. On the other hand, the legislation of regulatory testing banks is made more flexible, which is key to the development of new innovative technologies, and which require additional and exceptional impetus in a context in which they are clearly demarcated from the legislation that applies naturally to each of these areas. We believe that having these regulatory test banks with this capacity for direct experimentation is a key element not only for the deployment of new technologies, but also for attracting industrial investment, investment in innovation and taking advantage of the total capacities and opportunities that such significant changes can bring to our country as elements of success in the medium and long term. Finally, a number of technical measures are also being taken to deploy innovative projects and installations and systems that facilitate the management of the electrical system, such as storage or synchronous compensators. If something is to accelerate, it will be precisely our storage capacity, both from the technological point of view and from the point of view of better regulation, in order to be able to incorporate it into the system with all guarantees. They are components that are used in order to ensure the safe and reliable operation of the transport network and redistribution, they are key components to combine all the tools of an electrical system that must be stable, reliable and environmentally sustainable. On the other hand, the volatility of natural gas prices and their impact on the European electricity market - I said - require a joint response, but also concrete measures of fiscal support for citizens, aimed precisely at the protection of consumers, in particular domestic consumers. The tax measures in force since June 2021 have therefore been extended. The Decree-Law incorporates the following measures: on the one hand, until 31 March 2022, the suspension of the tax on the value of electricity production of 7 %, with a budgetary impact of EUR 1050 million; on the other hand, until 30 April 2022, the application of the 10% VAT tax rate, with an impact of EUR 459 million; on the other hand, until 30 April 2022, the application of the 0.5 excise tax rate on electricity - the minimum permitted by the European Directive - with an impact of EUR 467 million. That is to say, almost EUR 2 billion of tax effort to reduce the bill for all consumers by 30 April. Measures for the special protection of vulnerable groups are also being strengthened, extending until April 2022 the 60-70 % discount on energy consumption for vulnerable and severe vulnerable consumers, a measure which we had introduced in Royal Decree-Law 23/2021 and which we want to extend - he pointed out - until 30 April. In this decree-law we adopt additional measures for the protection of our industry, including greater flexibility for consumers of natural gas, those whose demand exceeds 50,000 kilowatts/hour/year. Until 31 March, companies that are forced to reduce their production will be able to modify or'suspend the contracted flow to supply natural gas, avoiding any additional costs arising from the limitations in force to modify these types of contracts. That is, essential flexibility, as we had already incorporated in the toughest months of the pandemic. Finally, in the area of taxation and outside the energy sector, some measures are introduced which I would like to point out very quickly because they are important in relation to management, the fight against COVID-19. On the one hand, the application of the tax rate of 4 % of VAT on disposable surgical masks referred to in the Agreement of the Interministerial Committee on Prices of Medicinal Products of 12 November 2020 is extended until 30 June 2022. On the other hand, the application of the tax rate 0 % of VAT for COVID-19 sanitary equipment is extended until 30 June 2022. In addition, this decree-law continues to strengthen public employment in the offices of benefits and care for job seekers, key at a historical time such as the one we have lived with the pandemic and fundamental to supporting ERTEs. Over the past few years, owing to numerous retirements, structural insufficiency in staffing had accumulated. There are therefore 926 open-ended places for the period 2021 for SEPE, corresponding to 192 for the Civil Administration Management Corps of the State, 734 for the General Administrative Corps of the State Administration. Finally, with regard to the reform of the National System of Science, Technology and Innovation, an attractive and stable scientific career is envisaged, laying the foundations for a new postdoctoral path to which researchers can access competitively and in which, after the completion of the programme and a favourable evaluation, they can opt for a stable job, a key objective for the development of science in our country and, above all, the retention of talent. For all that I have said, I trust you will agree with me that what has been said in this decree-law is fundamental to the progress, the acceleration of the energy transition so important in our country at a time like this, both in terms of sustainable mobility and self-consumption, large-scale renewable energy or consumer and business protection. We are going through a situation that requires rapid and effective responses. We are going through a situation in which dialogue between all the institutions and, in particular, between the various parliamentary groups is fundamental; a situation in which the validation of rules such as those incorporated in the text of this royal decree-law is key, decisive. Thank you very much for your attention and with these words, asking again for the validation of the decree-law, I bid farewell. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u51	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u52	Good afternoon. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support the validation of this royal decree, but also its processing as a bill to try to improve its content and include some considerations in line with the proposals we have been advocating on energy transition and the deployment of renewable energies. [[The Lord]] It points out the explanatory statement that the energy transition should be an opportunity for all, not just a few. We therefore believe that both this royal decree and the legislation on climate change, on renewable energy and on the regulation of the electricity sector must fulfil that objective. We therefore ask that the opportunities offered by the energy transition for both citizens and territories be extended with the following measures: to introduce in both the title of the standard and its own articulation the objective of promoting the distributed generation of renewable energy; to submit to strategic environmental assessment the deployment of renewable energy plants greater than ten megawatts, which must involve prior public planning, because, as you know, there are very severe effects on the environment, the landscape and the economic model of the territories, affecting in many cases negatively both agriculture and tourism; to apply a physical model for the deployment and implementation of renewable energy plants, a model controlled by the administrations that allows the incorporation of local communities into the benefits of the projects of these plants; to transpose into Spanish legislation the so-called winter package of European legislation, which aims to democratize the self-comparisoning of the distributed generation; to strengthen, also, the energy communities, including those that are to emerge in the cooperative world of energy, and to promote the operation of the small-scaled production of these self-consumming energy, to expand the individual self-consummation communities as well as well as the distribution of self-consumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u53	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, Madam Third Vice President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. It rejected the validation of this royal decree-law, in which measures are being proposed that involve the disastrous energy policy of this government of impoverishment and ruin. The complications and turbulences that you have mentioned have increased precisely as a result of your management. It shows that in Asturias the fundamentalist decarbonization applied by you since June 2018, after the motion of censure, and the renunciation of the energy sovereignty of Spain are dragging to the desertification of large regions, to the destruction of employment without alternative - if lacerating is the closure of the thermal power plants of electricity generation -, to the collapse of the population and to a lower rate of activity. Ladies and gentlemen, all the economic sectors, all of them, are in check as a result of a just transition converted into a mustia transition. The run-down National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030 is today reflected in a hyperinflation of electricity that vapulates households by increasing the shopping basket, punishes farmers and fishermen, fosters growth, paralyzes industrial production and cuts employment or destroys it; see the gradual elimination of aluminium and, in particular, the disastrous drift from Alcoa and Alu Ibérica, which has plunged workers, victims of government deception, into despair, and see also the severe threats to the whole of the electro-intensive industry, whose production is driven by the very high costs of energy supply, which has a very negative impact on competitiveness and has a worrying impact on social and labour plans and a serious risk of generating such employment. In short, as I have been reiterating, the energy policy of the Government of Pedro Sánchez is a disaster from beginning to end, and hence my vote against it again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u55	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u56	Thank you, President. Minister, I will focus on the tax aspect of lowering the bill for light, which is what motivates our abstention in line with what we said in July. Taking such measures to lower VAT was the least left-wing measure a government could take to get the electricity bill down. You have encrypted it in a fiscal effort - you have called it - of EUR 2 billion, which is what the state stops entering with these measures. Therefore, we understand that it is money that is stopped from entering for social policies, for public policies. However, during all these months the electric bill has been rising, who has not stopped winning, who has lost absolutely nothing, who has put nothing on his side are the big electricity companies, the big energy companies of IBEX, who have had record profits. With data from the first half of 2021, Iberdrola has had profits of EUR 1500 million; Endesa, of EUR 832 million, and Naturgy, of EUR 484 million, which means a total of EUR 2847 million of profits in the first half of 2021 from energy companies, or what would be the same, EUR 474.5 million of profits at the same time, EUR 659 000 of profits each hour and about EUR 11,000 of profit per minute. In other words, within three minutes of my intervention, the benefits of energy companies are EUR 33 000. Still, gnaw so as not to assume the social bonus. Yesterday we read the news that Iberdrola has submitted allegations to the report of the National Commission on Markets and Competition for the amount of this social bonus to be borne by the General Budgets of the State and not by the electrics. Do you know how much this social bonus implies? For about 200 million euros a year, or what would be the same, what these electrics earn in fifteen days. To conclude, these companies should not only assume the social bonus, but ultimately be nationalised. Energy is a public good and no one should be getting rich with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u57	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u58	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today, we are presented with a royal decree extending some of the initiatives that we have been sequentially extending since 2012, such as taxation, but at the same time announcing the implementation or implementation of others. I will talk first about the latter and focus later, as the person who preceded me in the gallery has done, on what has to do with the tax rebate. The decree places special emphasis on the electric vehicle, and it's fine. It even announces that 100 000 electric refueling points will be generated for these vehicles, and it is well, especially given that there are 198 000 vehicles in the Spanish State, then there will be one point for each two vehicles, something very far from what would happen to vehicles that depend on another type of combustion or fuel. But note that even though the number of electric vehicles in this decade has to be multiplied by twenty-five in order to achieve the objectives of its own government, I doubt very much that this can be achieved only by generating more refueling points. Perhaps the problem is in the price of electric vehicles and in which for many people electric vehicles are a luxury good, rather than a first necessity good. Perhaps that is why - call me crazy - it turns out that second, third and fourth-hand vehicles have increased exponentially their sale, because probably the purchasing capacity of citizens' pockets is diminishing. In any case, we don't think it's bad. We're fine with everything that has to do with self-consumption. We welcome the initiation of a road or route in relation to electrical self-consumption, with small energy marketers, especially because they make use of renewable energy - such as Goiener, Soenergy and others - and we also think very well all that has to do with storage, which is something we have already pointed out in the debate we had during the 23rd December inquiry. We have some doubt, we do not deny it, with the deployment of renewable energies that is associated with a speeding up of procedures, because surely you better know that, with the need to implement our clean energy production capacity, there are also certain environmental alterations that are even later paralyzed or put into caution. We would like this speeding up of procedures in no way to mean the elimination of environmental guarantees for the territories. By focusing on the measures that are being extended, I think it can already be said that the President's objective could not be met, which said that by the end of December - on 31 December - the price of the citizens' bill would be equal to or lower than that of 2008. And I am not saying this to boast of anything or to rejoice; we saw that it was difficult for it to be fulfilled and I believe that 3 600 000 households have already paid higher bills on their own certifies, regardless of the number engineering they want to do, that it has not been achieved or at least not for all and all, more if we take into account that both the prices of the PVPC market and that of the free market have increased, and this with a more diminished purchasing power. Just see the rise of the December CPI to understand how citizens' pockets lose purchasing capacity to meet needs, and obviously the need for electricity or energy is. In short, we remain static, we remain stagnant at the same point, that of tax reduction to deal with a much more serious or global problem, because reality tells us that the futures market is not going to change until the spring of 2022. Everything tells us that the price of gas and even that of CO2 emission allowances will not go down - you pointed out - any more now in this geostrategic context that has to do with the price of gas. No doubt, sending the Blas de Lezo to Ukraine, I don't think we're going to get the price of gas reduced, but quite the opposite, but it's panistic politics. As I said to you, it does not seem that until the March 2022 summit, no initiative will be taken within the European Commission that can bring about structural change in relation to the rise and price escalation, which only reaches historical peaks every less time. In addition, there is another thing that is significantly worse, that all the millions of households that depend on these tariffs in the free market, which are more than those in the regulated PVPC market, will probably see in these months how their contracts are renewed and will surely impact on them the increases in the price of 2021, with which the tax deductions that they have raised can be reduced again. It is no accident, therefore, that Iberdrola announces record benefits for exercise 2022. I would have to look at it in 2023, but that's what he announces; if in this context he announces record benefits, I think he's already pointing us where he's going. And you said it very well, in the end the tax reduction is 450 million euros less for the state, that is, for the pockets of the state and in order to be able to distribute among all, 450 million euros in terms of VAT, 467 million euros in terms of excise duty and 1050 million euros in terms of general expenditure. Let me just say, this morning in the Permanent Chamber, the right-wing parties were tearing their clothes for nine million euros that they understood had been squandered on a Catalonian issue. Surely, none of these parties will say anything of what it means that the State will receive less than EUR 2 billion of what it should receive in order to be able to then redistribute in public policies such as those that it has indicated it wants to start up or as in any field or field, but in the end each one owes to its master. As I said to you, the problem with all this is that this government as long as it does not dare to do much more bold things and in line with what has to do with self-consumption, with storage, with everything it has pointed out that it implements new - now yes, in the electric market and against oligopoly - we will continue to be captive. Citizenship will be captivated and the Government will be hostage to an oligopoly that has too much power because oligopoly does understand that electricity is a basic good; and in addition to understanding that electricity is a basic good, that it understands, knows that it has the switch and knows that if it decides to turn off the switch and leave the citizens in the dark, leaving the citizens, citizens and citizens unprotected, what they are going to do is blame the Government for not giving them solutions, and that is the continuing blackmail that we are witnessing on the part of the electric oligopoly, and what a difficult solution it has if we do not commit ourselves to doing other things. Because we are not mistaken, the Foessa report speaks clearly and says that 16% of households have resorted to some strategy of reducing basic household energy consumption which, in the case of households with severe social exclusion, reaches 55%. In other words, the drop in electricity consumption not only has to do with these tax cuts, but it has to do primarily with the fact that those who need energy sometimes cannot afford it and because they cannot afford it they have to tighten their belts. But it can also happen that these people end up angry and tired because they see that the solutions are still insufficient while the pockets of the usual ones continue to be filled in a shameful way. Eskerrik asko. Milesker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u59	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u60	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. My group is going to support this decree; in fact, it has already voted favourably, and it is true that despite the fact that it is a decree of energy-related measures - as its title indicates - there is another series of measures which are quite different and which you have also commented on, because it provides for a call for places for SEPE, an amendment to the Cooperatives Act, the regime for postdoctoral researchers and fiscal measures for health products. Indeed, these tax measures, which are an extension of the previous ones, are the reduction of VAT by 4% of masks and a VAT by 0% for the purchase of sanitary equipment to deal with COVID-19, as this group has asked on numerous occasions and has also asked several questions to the effect in the control sessions. As far as energy is concerned, as you have said, Vice-President, it is a decree which seeks to promote electricity mobility, self-consumption and the deployment of renewable energy sources. And you said it today too: it is a year when market volatility is still going to be extreme and, therefore, prices too. In this sense, we continue to see the need for such an extension of tax measures which, although we understand that they are a patch, are short-term measures to be able to mitigate the effect of the rise in the cost of electricity, but it is also true that it has a different effect because the amount of the receipt depends on the type of contract and the amount consumed, because it is not the same as having a contract on the regulated market as one on the free market. These are measures which, as I said, are still a new patch, but which do not solve the problem until this formulation of the PVPC is reviewed in order to disconnect from the spot market and such market volatility cannot be transferred directly to consumers. In addition, it should also be remembered that the Government opened a public consultation process to address this issue, but we still do not know the conclusions and no action has been taken and I think we should take it again. We also think that the measures to continue to drive the self-consumption facilities, establishing these administrative, technical and economic conditions are certainly more lax, which will ultimately also entail an improvement in the invoice. Of course, for my group this is the way. It is necessary to turn the consumer into a prosumer if we are of course to have an agile, economic energy and not to be so dependent on energy. In other words, to encourage the model of distributed consumption generation not only centralized, as Mr Guitarte has said, and in this we agree, and this is what the winter package establishes. This not only means talking about installing or regulating self-consumption, but also, as Mr Guitarte has said, about consumers, energy communities, independent aggregators, new models of demand management, peer-to-peer contracts. In short, a review of the electricity sector, which I believe Mr Capdevila is going to remind you today, Minister. We also welcome the provisions that will allow, on the one hand, the development of experimental prototypes in marine wind, in which, of course, Euskadi tries to position itself as an innovation pole in the floating wind, and also the flexibility in regulatory testing banks to develop pilot research projects in the electricity sector. On the other hand, we also believe that the royal decree gives an important boost to electric mobility because it obviously facilitates this expansion of the network of charging stations, increases the number of urban and long distance shippers and allows the new points to be installed certainly more agile by eliminating certain administrative procedures that required a period of between twelve and thirty-six months to open a charging station. It is also possible for municipalities to set up tax subsidies that may be granted around the IBI, around the economic activities and works necessary for the installation of these recharge points. Also, as you have mentioned here, we have to say that, while it is important to install these recharge points, it is also important that citizens can buy an electric car, which is currently quite difficult, given the economic situation in which we find ourselves. Perhaps this should also involve not only those recharge points but also greater and better incentives for consumers to make a concrete, sure and secure decision when buying a vehicle. Finally, and very important to us too, it is the decree that takes a step to ensure that there is no grabbing and, therefore, to avoid such speculation around the rights of access to the transport and distribution networks of renewable projects among those who did not have real intention of processing renewable plants and buyers who did have that intention, which was already done with the previous decree, in such a way as to enable these rights of access to be renounced by returning those guarantees provided to them and avoiding, as I have said, not only speculation but also the saturation of knots and enabling the implementation of these real and certain projects. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, from the minute one of the escalation of energy prices, we Liberals have proposed to help families, SMEs and the self-employed in our country by lowering taxes, simplifying the bill for light, removing from it the costs and charges that have nothing to do with service. I'll tell you about when you were here, Filomena, a year ago. They will allow me to tell you that we have felt a little alone looking for solutions to a problem that is seriously affecting family economies and the competitiveness of our businesses. We have felt alone in seeking solutions between this storm of criticism, political and false promises on the part of the Government, but when we launched good proposals, which were working in other countries, they did not want to launch them until months later. That's why and despite this, we're not like you. The liberals put the interests of the Spaniards before the inter-party fights and, as it could not be otherwise, Citizens will support this royal decree-law with the aim of advancing the decarbonization of the economy and achieving a real, rapid and sustainable drop in the electricity bill paid by Spanish households and businesses. However, we cannot fail to point out that it has become customary in the real decree-laws of this Government that the text remains very short in its ambition, it comes late, contradicts rules and initiatives from the same Council of Ministers and, moreover, it mixes many issues, with which it is difficult to separate the importance of one from the other. First of all, let me tell you that a mere removal of administrative barriers is not enough for the proper and necessary deployment of the electric charging infrastructure. The Climate Change and Energy Transition Act provides that service stations must install, at least, an electrical charging infrastructure in continuous current, which must be serviced between February and August next year, with a minimum power of between 50 and 150 kilowatts. However, the proposal for the alternative fuel regulation currently being negotiated in Brussels provides for charging points with a minimum power per station of 300 kilowatts for light vehicles and 1400 kilowatts for heavy vehicles by 2026. In Citizens we introduce amendments to the Climate Change Act to get more fully into the recharge points and to be able to shape recharge points with more common sense, but in the Government they said it was better to wait for the mobility law and today they draw a real decree-law where they begin to release a drip of patches that we do not know how it will be by 2026. It seems, therefore, that this royal decree, which is limited to removing barriers without changing the minimum power, is already born lacking ambition in comparison with what is to be demanded of us at Community level. We will need to develop a strategy for the electric vehicle as a reliable alternative to transport, and right now the signals that consumers are receiving contradict each other. In this regard, speed is also required in the publication of the regulatory provision determining the obligations for the installation of electrical charging points. We also welcome the fact that the installation of charging points does not require the obtaining of a licence or prior authorization of works, which will be replaced by responsible declarations. We consider positive the requirement that existing buildings of use other than private residential and having a parking area with more than twenty parking spaces install, since 1 January 2023, minimum infrastructure for charging electric vehicles proportional to the total number of parking spaces. As regards measures for self-consumption, there is a notable lack of incentives for the sale of surpluses and deficit relief, especially by leaving the tax on energy sales to the network uncompensated. All this should take particular account of rural areas, where access points to the network are often very remote from self-consumption facilities. As regards the most important tax measures, the decree provides in its preamble that, exceptionally and temporarily, the reduction of VAT to 10% will be maintained until 30 April 2022. Again, the Government is short. In order to achieve a real, rapid and sustainable decrease in the electricity bill paid by Spanish businesses and families, it is necessary to maintain the 10% permanently reduced rate until the problems of the price of the electricity bill are solved, to have a higher fixed power term regardless of the electricity price of the wholesale market. Finally, we welcome the proposed measures to encourage renewable energy investments in Spain, but we can only remind the government that the best incentive would be to get their hands off the market and stop intervening, as their Podemos partners like. It is, in short, a real decree-law that we are going to welcome in its purpose - we will vote in favour - but we believe it is long overdue, because we have all been able to see that the bill of light with the measures that have been taken so far is not really being lowered. In short, it is, as I say, a matter of using it to encourage the Government to abandon the unilateral path and improvisation in energy matters. We refer to the Government's veto on our group's initiatives, such as the national water resource development plan, the general study on the extension of the life of nuclear power plants or the national solar building development plan. Because while it is true that the rise in the price of light is not the direct responsibility of the Government, it is the problem of having denied that the actual rise in the bill could be resolved by propaganda, having ignored the proposals of those who, loyally and responsibly, made them available to take them in time and form and, ultimately, having given priority to attacking the opposition and doing politics rather than worrying about families and businesses that cannot reach the end of the month. We are seeing it with labor reform, for which Citizens ask the government to move away from separatist blackmail and for once think a little more about Spain and the Spanish and really listen to the social actors. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the original sin of this government with regard to the price of light is populism, which is sometimes confused with that of United Podemos. And I say it's important, but we do have the answer, and it's that if the rise in light prices were happening with a PP government and Citizens the lords of the PSOE and Podemos would be burning the streets. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u63	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, we are in front of a decree that contains various matters, and some of us value them positively and others not so much or not so much. These include, for example, the elimination of requirements, but also of legal or environmental safeguards for the establishment of charging points for electric vehicles or the facilitation of direct aid to large electricity companies for digitisation. For some time, I will focus on three brief reflections. First of all, we seem to support the expansion of electric vehicles, but we must remember that when we talk about the transition in transport it means decisively betting on an effective, efficient and sustainable way, such as the railway, and that is where the government's policy, in our opinion, fails, at least in my country's internal network, in Galicia, without close service, without frequencies, timetables and adequate prices, with roads without electrification and without modernisation for decades or without connection, as between the cities of Lugo and Santiago. All this highlights the need to turn transport policies upside down. Secondly, we seem to support self-consumption, but it is necessary to plan rationally the expansion of renewables, with a moratorium, however not so, in order to end the free bar of large companies in a predatory model that implies social, property and environmental impacts, in our opinion absolutely intractable. Third. As has already been shown, the fiscal measures that are extended are not sufficient to control the price of electricity, nor are they the most appropriate. We have to go to a profound change of the electrical system on the basis of the public role, decisive to put the production of energy at the service of the social majority...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u65	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u66	... instead of serving the greatest profit of electric oligopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u67	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u68	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to our opinion, this royal decree that we are debating here today is necessary and urgent and, therefore, More Country-Greens Equo will vote in favour, also with the idea that there can be improvements and clarifications necessary in its processing. Decarbonizing the economy is not only essential for combating climate change, it is also an opportunity to reduce external energy dependence and fossil fuels. It is always important, but at times like those we are experiencing from political and energy crisis due to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the need for such independence or energy improvement is much more visible. The decree removes some barriers, improves the connection of self-consumption to the network, simplifies procedures, although - eye! - the simplification of procedures has to be accompanied by guarantees, and it is also important to update the sanctions applied to the owners of the distribution networks. We have always proposed that we prefer public ownership of distribution networks. However, we understand that there are important and necessary improvements and progress. In any case, despite the progress made in the fundamental parts of this decree, structural measures are still necessary - it has been said in the interventions - to put in place the excessive benefits of the electric monopoly. It is not the case with temporary taxation measures, we have to tackle clearly and firmly the excess profits that are being made in the electric monopoly. However, it seems to us that this decree means an advance on the road to improving self-consumption, the distributed generation, so that it becomes, through the application of these measures, an activity if not absolutely massive of course majority. It will be important to implement the measures and move forward quickly, because we have been in this country for years, coming late to the energy transformation we need and, therefore, to transform the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u69	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u70	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Vice-President, today we are discussing this Royal Decree 29/2021 which talks about electric mobility, self-consumption, deployment of renewable energies and measures to reduce the cost of the energy bill. I begin with this last question, which seems to us to be of particular relevance for obvious reasons and which, in short, it does is to extend some of the measures that came late at the time; some of us have already asked and you have decided to apply them, but late. This is a fairly common practice, that of waiting for people to ask for something, not to do it when they ask, but to do it later and to remain as an intellectual author of the idea, and it would be anecdotal and childish if it were not because the burden and responsibility always rests on them, the citizens. That's why I wanted to start at the same time celebrating this extension by denouncing that it's late and that it's bad. Something similar to that, to waiting for people to say things not to do them and to finish later making them late, is related to the extension of the deadlines provided for in Royal Decree 23/2020. We, Vice-President, already asked him in November to extend those deadlines, and they did not. They had to wait for the Sectoral Energy Conference, two months after we asked for it, to do so. Surely, it is better late than never, but along the way we could avoid insecurity, pain and instability in the sector. We are celebrating this update, but I insist you're late. On self-consumption, we celebrate each and every measure that you and your ministry present to us here today. I believe that nothing can repair the damage done in self-consumption during the darkest stage, the result of the legislation of the People's Party, but it is good that we try to repair it. Finally, we welcome the measures they are betting on the electric vehicle. We believe that the increase in sales of electric vehicles, which at some points has reached 35% compared to 2020, requires more charging points. We believe that this proposal of a hundred thousand points before 2023 seems ambitious, but necessary and interesting, and that is why we will support it. For all these issues, Vice-President, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree and also in favour of processing, because we believe that there are things that can be improved. We will bet on working together with the other parliamentary groups to improve the text. Thank you very much for your exhibition. We're at your disposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u72	With your permission, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Members, Members and Vice-President. It is the first plenary of the year, a year that must be the turning point on the road to the energy transition. And here we are moving forward, although let me tell you, Madam Vice-President, that you are doing so at too short a time, and we are on time for discount. It is interesting to recall the recent target set by the European Union for reducing emissions by 55% by 2030. We are presented with a royal decree containing various measures. Without commenting on the whole bus and I focus on electric mobility, self-consumption and deployment of renewable energies, many of them recognized by the Republican Left. You cannot deny us that since the beginning of the legislature we have been moving forward on this exciting path, although nothing without difficulties, of the ecological transition, which will be energetic or not. Firstly, the promotion of self-consumption. As I was saying, they are amending the regulations that Squerra Republicana already considered and proposed as an amendment to the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. They didn't listen to us then and they still don't. It is a real pity that they did not want to move beyond 500 meters - this is less than from here to Neptune - for shared self-consumption. You know, Vice-President, that our proposal is and continues to be moving towards the 5 km, and even the 20 in rural areas. What would allow me to do that? That in rural areas, where the distance between the population is higher, there is an end to the nonsense of continuing to maintain the 500 metre limit. Look at how revolutionary that is the measure that even nuclear-weapon France has taken. It is essential to bet on community projects and the participation of citizens in the ownership of projects. Stop stalling, because keeping the limit at 500 meters only favors an extractive energy model that generates greater opposition every day. We shall be submitting amendments. On the charging points of the electric car, you will already know that the chairman of the Committee on Industry has been insisting since September on the need for a subcommittee to study this crucial issue. We believe that, despite its bold text, much remains to be done: we must avoid certain exceptions to which some gas stations can be accommodated; we must ensure the interoperability of all charging points, avoiding blocking positions; we must ensure the separation of activities, preventing the charging from falling into very few hands, because we already know the consequences of this, and also - as we do not - we must promote smart charging to optimize the behaviour of the distribution network and the vehicle to grid. Thirdly, the energy cost. A reflection that you have already heard on several occasions in your appearances, I do not think that is any less important, is that if we want to reduce the energy cost to consumers we must let them participate in all markets, directly or through the aggregator. They already transpose the Internal Market Directive in the most ambitious way possible and start thinking about opening up all markets to demand participation. Put aside the patches, put the batteries in order to really adapt it and give a radical turn in the configuration of the electricity market and, as the deputy Sagastizabal advanced to her with skillful clarity, comply with her commitment to present, within twelve months, together with the CNMC, a profound reform of the electricity market, as dictated by the 11th final provision of the Climate Change Act, and on the proposal of the Republican Left. When his obligations with the phone were allowed, he asked them how you were carrying him. You know this should be by May? Finally, in the deployment of renewable energies, please bet on a decentralized model. How? For example, substations have to make a reservation for small projects of 50% or let's talk about those percentages. In short, Madam Vice-President, this royal decree-law takes steps forward, but unfortunately with too short legs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u73	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, we entered 2022. By the way, I wish you all a happy year, but know that the last eight years have been the hottest since there were records, in the year 1880. This is not questionable, this is a fact and it is there. If any of you have an eight-year-old son or daughter, each of the years that that child or girl has lived has done so on a slightly warmer planet, and this, unfortunately, goes on. The good news is that we know for sure the origin of that warming. The origin of this warming is emissions from the burning of fossil fuels. Therefore, the energy transition is not a whim, it is a necessity. If we do not make that energy transition, we will continue to aggravate this problem until we make this planet a difficult place to inhabit for our species. When you sit and listen to what the various parliamentary groups say, you have to hear things that are radically false. Mr Martínez Oblanca of the Joint Group said - I do not see it there - that the energy transition is destroying jobs in all sectors. Look, this is fake, it's a lie. In Spain, the renewable energy sector already employs more than 100,000 people in direct jobs and the prospects, according to companies of the energy oligopoly itself, are that in the coming years 350 jobs will be created in this sector. According to the International Labour Organization, between 2021 and 2030, the renewable energy sector will generate between twenty-four and twenty-five million new jobs and, on the other hand, will destroy the coal and oil industries, which will have to gradually reduce their activity from six million to seven million. The balance sheet is therefore clearly positive in favour of employment generation. It is also in the case of mobility, and then I will talk about it. I also wanted to refer to something that I heard in the debate this afternoon in the mouth of the representative of Citizens - I think he is not here either. He referred to Podemos's interventionist zeal. Look, I want to explain one more thing to you. Water in Spain is a public good, it is public, and to produce electricity what the State does is to give concessions to private companies to generate that electricity. Therefore, if we have any desire when we talk about the recovery of these concessions for the creation of a public enterprise it is to recover the public, which is already public and has been granted to the private. So don't talk about interventionism, because what we want is to get back to the public what is already everyone's. I think it is very important to comment on this, because things are said over and over again and, if you repeat them, in the end they seem to turn into truth. It is therefore very important to say that we are proposing the creation of a public enterprise for the recovery of the concessions that are coming to an end and that, in this way, the State has a stake in the electricity sector, which is now dominated by an oligopoly of a very small group of companies. Then we must insist on it over and over again, because, if not, the appeals remain there and if they are not answered, it seems that they are true. On the subject of mobility, the commitment to electric mobility is essential for employment and is the only viable solution for our important car industry to be strengthened. If that firm bet were not made, the effects on the employment of our industry would be devastating, because Spain is a country that exports more than 80% of the cars it produces and to markets that have already expired the combustion car. Therefore, it does not matter what we commit ourselves to. We are exporting our vehicles to countries that have already set a deadline for these combustion cars, and they are not marginal countries, they are very important countries in our European environment. In fact, at COP 26, at the Glasgow meeting, there was a specific agreement of thirty-five countries and ten car companies in favour of the electric car and the disposal of the combustion car in the year 2035. As the Vice-President has already said, while 2021 has been closed in Europe with a sale of 1.2 million electric cars, which is 55% more compared to 2020, and surpassing in sales to diesel models, however this market share which in Europe is 11% in Spain is still 4%. Therefore, we need to make an effort at all levels to drive the electric vehicle, because that depends on our automotive industry, and it is very important to reiterate. We are talking about climate change, yes, but we are also talking about the future of our country and the future of employment. If we let that train pass, others will go up to it and our industry, which, by the way, are multinational companies whose decisions are made elsewhere, will bet on other countries. Then we have to be there. This is what this royal decree seeks to promote, complementing what has already been developed in the Climate Change Act, but not all responsibility can fall to the central government. The Climate Change Act, by the way, establishes the need to develop low-emission zones in municipalities with more than 50 thousand inhabitants, a fundamental subject that is not being carried out in many municipalities, and I believe it is also key to the development of the electric vehicle. Therefore, the fight against climate change and for green industrial development in our country is a collective responsibility in which all administrations must participate. We cannot go up here and complain that if you slow down or do not slow down when in many municipalities ruled by the same people who say that you are not doing what you should do according to the Climate Change Act. Unfortunately I do not have time for many things I would like to say, but I think it is essential to move forward quickly. As I say, this is not a whim, this is an urgent need. By the way, this Congress of Deputies in September 2019 declared at the plenary session that our country was in a climate emergency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Errás Pabon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u76	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. We are here by a royal decree that they present with a title full of grandiose words, such as promoting electric mobility or promoting self-consumption; in short, the constant political verborrea to which this Government has accustomed us. But first of all I would like to ask you whether you see it normal to mix in the same royal decree questions on the energy sector, the Cooperatives Act, the Social Security Act, with the reduction of the VAT on masks, which, by the way, applies only to surgical masks, of course, because to the most expensive ones, to the FFP2, with which this government most collects, they do not apply a reduction of VAT, even if they are the ones that most protect citizens, especially in the interior spaces. [[Applauds]] This royal decree is a clear example of how this is not only the government of improvisation and legislative splendour, but also an elephantic government, oversized, full of bureaucracy and client networks, which only knows how to stop the little wealth that allows the Spaniards to generate from being destined to pay salaries of politicians as expendable and unnecessary as you, Minister. [[Applauds]] They claim in this royal decree to have identified some factors that hinder the expansion of renewable energies. Have you bought a mirror, Minister? You blame this text first on the difficulties of access to transport and distribution networks and secondly on the bureaucratic difficulties and inability of the Administration to process a large number of projects. But, minister, who are responsible, who create these difficulties? You guys. At least, with this royal decree they recognize the hellish bureaucracy they generate and that it is a problem that discourages the development of the energy sector. But what about the rest of the sectors, the persistent bureaucratic tyranny in the rest of the fields, such as, for example, the research centres in this country, the granting of aid with European funds, administrative licences, etc.? Don't these deserve the attention of the government? You include in this royal decree the extension of tax rebates on the electric bill of the Spaniards, something that we support in VOX, which, as you know, we have been asking since the first day we stepped on Congress, but in our case we advocate permanent, not temporary measures, as you propose, and also much more ambitious, such as the introduction of a super-reduced VAT of 4% on the electric bill for the Spanish households. Today you are extending 10% of the household electricity bill, but that is totally insufficient, because it is still one of the highest VAT in the European Union. VOX proposes a structural reform that would greatly reduce the electricity bill of the Spanish, but you prefer to create ration cards, which you call social bonds, to subsidise the energy poverty that this government causes. Then they are outraged when we call them chavistas, minister. Having said that, it is important to talk about the installation of charging points for electric vehicles, yes, but it is also important to assess the problems associated with this authoritarian transition to the electric vehicle. Do you understand that in this transition to electric mobility there are thousands of Spaniards who can lose their jobs as a result, for example, of the disappearance of workshops and manufacturers of spare parts or components such as chassis, transmissions and non-electronic equipment, or that without specific plans to install large battery plants in Spain the automotive sector will be losing even more than 40% of the added value for each vehicle that becomes electric? What do you intend to do, Minister, to save the thousands of jobs and mitigate the impact of electric mobility on the car industry, when we are the second largest producing country in Europe? And with regard to the environment, which they seem to be so concerned about, what recycling plan do they have for when they flood our country with huge, heavy, polluting batteries? I'm telling you, none. Why do they not encourage, for example, other types of fuels, such as biofuels, which do not need batteries and are also so essential for industrial transport, for heavy and long-distance transport? The answer is that industry, jobs and the environment are alike. [[Applauds]] Last morning, Thursday, Spain will stop producing aluminum because the 512 tanks of electrolysis in San Cibrao, in Lugo, will be turned from being the European jewel in the sector to being a company without activity, and all because the price of electricity in this country already assumed a quarter of the cost of production; and this does not count on the risks of energy supply, which pose problems as badly managed by you as the pipeline of Algeria, the urgent purchase of 180 000 tons of coal that will burn the central of As Pontes or that we have fired the import of oil and gas from the United States, in a long number of misconceptions that have caused insurmountable bills for any sector, enterprise, self-employed or average family in this country. In short, this royal decree is a further demonstration of how the government improvises and starts the house on the roof trying to first impose electric mobility on the Spaniards, without even having enough unloading infrastructure. And it is surprising to see how their policies lead to money transfers from lower rents to higher rents, which are precisely the ones that buy these electric vehicles. Can you explain to me, Minister, why a worker or self-employed person, who moves by bus or subway and perhaps not even arrive at the end of the month, have to subsidize with the money of his taxes the expenses of a new electric car to the highest class in this country? Is the government going to leave Disney's policy and fight for the Spaniards? Or are you going to keep making the bed to Pedro Sánchez's globalism and personal agenda? [[Applauds]] I finish, Minister, with a very simple question, one that any worker, head of family or self-employed person would do to him in my place, and it is what he does there sitting, having failed and having made the lives of the Spaniards so much worse. Lift up, take your suitcase and resign, and at least recover some of the personal dignity that this Government has long lost. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u77	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u78	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, you bring us here today a further legislative attempt to implement your obsessive model of electrifying the economy, sacrificing what must be sacrificed, with a real decree-law that corrects your past but which, like everything you do, does not solve the problems of the present or of the future of our electricity sector or of our energy sector, legislating from behind to reality, disheartening society and dangerous economic planning, made by you, which does not respond to the general interest, but to the interest of a few and harms the majority. This is the sixth time that you have brought us a royal decree-law that seeks to promote renewable energies or electricity reform, but after six times you have not yet been able to achieve it, and look that you have committed yourself, from Royal Decree-Law 23/2020 to Royal Decree-Law 29/2021. How many more opportunities do you need? Mrs Ribera, if you don't know what you're doing, read the interview with Carlos Segovia, published in El Mundo last Wednesday, day 19, to the CEO of the car giant Stellantis, Carlos Tavares; I'll leave it to you now, in case you want to read it. [[Shows a press clipping]] It says here that Spain can lose thirty years of success. But I go further: You are going to make Spain irrelevant in Europe and you are going to impoverish the Spaniards. [[Shows a report.-Applause]] This royal decree-law is no more than another clumsy abuse of him for the achievement of Teresa Ribera's objectives; not for the objectives of Spain, but for his own. Although it is true that we can agree on something: Spain is at the level of Bulgaria as regards the deployment of electric charging points. After six royal decrees laws, the Climate Change Act, the National Energy and Climate Plan, after all the legislative package, you have not managed to make Spain advance as a country in the deployment of recharge points. Aren't you wrong? But what exactly does this royal decree-law bring? I'll explain. First, you have never believed in freedom or technology neutrality, and this royal decree law proves it once again, because section 15 of the Climate Change Act says that the government will ensure the deployment and deployment of alternative fuels but you direct all your efforts to electrification. That is why it obliges the installation of electric charging points but not the rest of the fuels, which can also help us achieve the decarbonisation objectives, that they can be freely chosen by consumers and industry and be as valid as electrification. You do nothing for a free, economically sustainable and compatible alternative to our industry. Secondly, you impose charges on the deployment of charging points at service stations, road dealers, parking areas, which will have to cover the total cost of charging points, and, however, it grants millionaire aid directly, without prior control, to large electricity companies in order to also install charging points; EUR 525 million of direct aid from the European Recovery Fund which does not a priori respond to the general interest. Could you explain to us what budget line these funds come from and why you consider it as non-budgetary operations? Again, lack of transparency, Mrs Ribera. From the People's Party we have proposed a strategic plan to recharge multifuel vehicles, with space for hydrogen, biofuels, synthetic fuels, electricity, so that European funds will finance the deployment of charging points strategically throughout Spain, without scorning the rural world and financing those that give us equal opportunities to all Spaniards in the fight against climate change, that it be done transparently and without the obscurantism that you like, but they have not even called us to ask. [[The lady]] Thirdly, this royal decree-law allows the increase of the electricity bill by 525 million euros, and it will do so via toll, because the investments made by the big electrics will be financed 50% with European funds and the other 50% will go for tolls and increase the bill of light. This is your plan, Mrs Rivera, a new increase in the bill of light, and this time with the electric charging points, so that you will come here and then ask us for the approval of a new national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system so that the farmer, who cannot be electrified, will pay for the electric charging points. [[Applauds]] Fourth, they despise municipalism and municipalities. Why does it deprive municipalities of the ability to issue licenses for use, work or environmental rating for charging points, and not for other CO2 emission reduction measures? With this royal decree-law you will be able to put an electrical recharge point in any location and the municipalities will not be able to say anything at all. And not only that, you tell them that in order to fulfill their own plan they will upgrade the IBI to 50% and the ICI to 90%. That is, a neighbor who wants to improve the energy efficiency of his house to reduce CO2 emissions will have to apply for a license, present a project, do a cadastral alteration, pay more IBI and pay the tax on constructions, installations and works, and, however, if you put a point of recharge, there is no need for a requirement. Obsession. Fifth, moreover, this royal decree-law demonstrates its inability in energy matters. They amend Royal Decree-Law 244/2019, of self-consumption; Royal Decree 1183/2020, of access and connection to transport and distribution networks; amend Royal Decree-Law 12/2021 to continue to extend VAT to 10%. Do not change it any more, let us approve the permanent reduction to 10%, as the People's Party says, and 4%, in view of the extraordinary situation we are experiencing with prices, and there will be no need to make further changes to real decrees. They amend the Royal Decree-Law 23/2020, amend the Royal Decree-Law 24/2021 and even amend the Climate Change Act and grant aid from European funds in a dark and untransparent way. What a fool, Mrs Ribera! They are his laws, which have no life for a year, but his clumsy legislation leads us to the constant modification of laws. What kind of legal certainty is this done under your orders? I would like to conclude my speech by addressing the left, the extreme left, the anti-systems and all those who are going to approve and vote in favour of this royal decree-law, which mainly serves to pay subsidies to the big electric interests, to raise the bill of light and to put an end to freedom and technological neutrality. It is not a real decree-law that responds to the general interest, it is not a real decree-law that eliminates differences between the rural world and the city, that gives competitiveness to the industry, that gives competitiveness to the families, that gives equal opportunities between the Spanish, that does not discriminate between the city and the rural world. This royal decree-law doesn't go through all that. Therefore, to the left and to all who will vote for it favorably: Do not speak again of the electric oligopoly, because with your vote you are your first accomplices. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Requena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Caballero Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u80	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Vice President. This Royal Decree contains urgent measures in various areas, all in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and all with the lowest common denominator of being aimed at facilitating the lives of many people. As the vice president reminded us, it facilitates the lives of researchers, who will have a stable scientific career, and this is the first step to access the 2,000 new places of researchers that will be convened between this year and the following year and, therefore, to return to the talent we have abroad. It facilitates the lives of all workers at this time of economic recovery by strengthening the public employment service with an extraordinary offer of more than 900 new jobs. It facilitates the lives of all citizens by reducing the VAT on masks and by zero the health supplies related to the COVID-19 pandemic. It also facilitates the lives of all citizens by maintaining the tax burden of the final electric bill, extending the duration of the thermal social bond and providing industries with large consumers of natural gas with various measures, such as adjusting the contracted capacity to avoid compromising their competitiveness. But, above all, this royal decree drives economic recovery and employment by removing the normative barriers that today are curbing the deployment of self-consumption, renewable energies or electric mobility, in order to accelerate the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The government is working intensively and the plan already has 73% of the funds foreseen in 2021 authorized, with more than EUR 11 billion transferred to the autonomous communities and two of the losses related to this royal decree already approved. The share of renewable energy, renewable hydrogen and storage is very important for Spain, as the Vice-President reminded us, since our country has become one of the main hotspots for attracting investment in renewable energy in the world. The means included in this royal decree facilitate self-consumption, particularly collective self-consumption. Information on access points to the network is improved and the necessary steps are reduced to speed up the installation of new renewable energy projects and, at the request of the autonomous communities, the deadlines for intermediate milestones, such as the environmental impact statement and administrative and constructive authorizations, are extended - not eliminated. In view of the concern, for example, expressed here by Mr Guitarte or Mr Matute regarding the environmental impact of the installations, it should be remembered that up to fifty megawatts are the responsibility of the autonomous communities, many of which are already making their autonomous energy and climate plans to order the deployment, although not others, such as Castile and León, despite the fact that the previous deployment of wind energy generated enormous corruption, which is now in the courts. The second loss approved in relation to this royal decree is that of the connected electric vehicle, which mobilizes an injection of 24 billion euros. And, Mr Matute, it also mobilizes him to boost the price of the car and, therefore, to make it accessible to other pockets; also to transform this industry into sustainable mobility, to achieve the sustainable development goals recognized in the UN and to achieve the decarbonisation of transport by 2050 provided for in our Climate Change Act. We cannot forget that Spain is the second largest vehicle manufacturer in Europe, indeed, and the eighth largest in the world, and that the sector is making a conversion to promote electric mobility and comply with the zero-emission vehicle penetration target of the National Energy and Climate Plan, but this requires at the same time the investment effort being made by the Government with the Connected Electric Vehicle Party, a shift of the buyer's mindset towards electric mobility and infrastructure that will allow for rapid and effective access to vehicle recharge. The economic objective is that in 2030 the automotive industry contributes at least 15% of the gross domestic product in Spain and that for each job generated in the automotive industry four are created in the auxiliary industry and between six and seven additional in service companies. The weight of the car industry in Spain is very significant, with almost 70,000 direct jobs, but this sector is even more important for the economy of Castile and León, as it is the first car producer in Spain and aspires to become a leader in the electrification of vehicles and this tractor project will boost the economy of the entire region. And it is that the automotive sector and its auxiliary companies in Castile and León represent nothing less than 25% of industrial GDP and 56% of their exports, agglutinate 180 companies and give employment to 35,000 people, half of the total in Spain dedicated to this sector. This industrial ecosystem and the efforts of the socialist mayor of Valladolid have attracted the city to a company manufacturing buses and electric vans that will create only in the first phase of the project two thousand direct jobs. [[Show a chart]] And in the face of this, in the last ten years with the People's Government the region has lost nothing less than 33,000 entrepreneurs, according to the Tax Agency. [[Show another chart]] Only in the last ten years of the People's Government has 151,000 people lost, a whole city of Castile and León, and only in the last year has the net balance of business losses in Castile and León been 94 companies less than in the previous year. Mr Requena, this is the excellent management of the People's Party in Castile and León. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: False!]] And, by the way, Mr Oblanca must be told that Asturias was one of the communities that last year more companies attracted, just the opposite of Castile and León. [[Mr Martínez Oblanca's refusals]] The part of the connected electric vehicle promoted by the socialist government, in addition to creating jobs and contributing to GDP, aims to reach 250,000 registered electric vehicles and between 80,000 and 110,000 charging points deployed in 2023, and to this end includes, in addition to investments, a series of legislative reforms, such as those brought by this royal decree, to develop a public charging infrastructure, in particular the high capacity infrastructure provided for in Article 15 of the Climate Change Act. By the way, Mrs Martínez, of Citizens, the Climate Change Act always talks about minimum powers: they are 150, like 300 or more. Therefore, the overall objective of the Royal Decree is urgent and essential for the implementation of the recovery plan, but, as you have seen, it is even more urgent for the economic and labour development of the Community of Castile and León, so we ask everyone to vote in favour, to demonstrate the true commitment to this community. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, abstaining is turning your back on Castile and León's progress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the deadline for the issue of the vote by telematics procedure, I should like to state the outcome of the votes. First, Royal Decree-Law 31/2021 of 28 December, amending Law 19/1994 of 6 July, amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, and setting a new deadline for submitting waivers or'revocations to special taxation methods and regimes. Votes cast, 341; in favour, 271; against, 1; abstentions, 69. It is therefore validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Votes cast, 340; in favour, 151; against, 171; abstentions, 18. Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 28/2021 OF 17 DECEMBER, BY WHICH COMPLEMENTARY MEASURES OF AN EMERGENT CHARACTER ARE TAKEN FOR THE REPAIR OF THE DAMAGE caused by VOLCANIC ERUPPATIONS AND FOR THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL RECOVERY OF THE ISLAND OF THE PALMA.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u83	Secondly, Royal Decree-Law 28/2021 of 17 December, introducing additional measures of an urgent nature for the reparation of damage caused by volcanic eruptions and for the economic and social recovery of the island of La Palma. Votes cast, 347; in favour, 334; abstentions, 13. It's validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Votes cast, 346; in favour, 144; against, 188, abstentions, 14. Consequently, it will not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL LAW 29/2021 OF 21 DECEMBER, ON IMPORTANT MEASURES IN THE ENERGY ENVIRONMENT FOR ELECTRIC MOBILITY, SELF-CONSUMPTION AND RENEWABLE ENERGY
ParlaMint-ES_2022-01-25-CD220125.u84	Finally, Royal Decree-Law 29/2021 of 21 December, adopting urgent energy measures to promote electricity mobility, self-consumption and the deployment of renewable energy sources. Votes cast, 347; in favour, 197; against, 3; abstentions, 147. The royal decree-law is validated. It has been requested that this royal decree-law be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Votes cast, 347; in favour, 341; against, 4; abstentions, 2. Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Thank you all very much. Good afternoon. The meeting rose. It was eight o'clock at night.
