ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the item on the agenda concerning the communication of the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 26 July 2022 requesting the Congress of Deputies to assess that Spain is suffering the consequences of the outbreak of war in Europe and an unprecedented energy crisis, which is an extraordinary emergency situation, for the purposes provided for in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. For her presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. I note in this House the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 26 July, which gave rise to the exit gun for the preparation, design and subsequent approval of the general budgets of the State for the year 2023, a budget, ladies and gentlemen, for this last phase of the legislature, which has been marked by major challenges and which, unlike what has happened in the last crises that our country has endured, the Government has decided to confront it, I believe clearly, with the political will not to leave anyone behind. Indeed, in the years 2020 and 2021 the fight against COVID-19 was prioritized in public action and this year, 2022, the current year, is that of the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, as you know, a plan that will shift Europe's support so that the consequences of this health pandemic will be shortened as much as possible over time. Well, when we were barely getting out of those consequences arising from the disease, there is a war in the heart of Europe caused by an unjustified invasion of Russia over Ukraine, situation, ladies and gentlemen, which, as you well know, is prolonging today - with disturbing news that we have heard in the last few hours from the Soviet leader - and which is affecting the global economy in a very important way. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u3	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u4	Thank you, President. He said that the situation is affecting the global economy in a very important way. Moreover, you know that in the final stages - we understand now - of these war processes these issues are intensifying so that, more than ever, unity within Europe, marked by the economic sanctions that are being imposed on this country, is also shifting an affect on both businesses and citizens and families. I hope this conflict will be resolved quickly and we can return to normality because - I insist - the legislature has been marked by these different events. These are situations, ladies and gentlemen, which, of course, do not depend on the administrations, do not depend on the governments, but what is really an action and a responsibility of all of us is how we respond to these problems. Justly, the Executive is determined to do so by putting citizenship first. In other words, protecting their rights and well-being. That is the responsibility of this Government, but it is also the responsibility of all the parliamentary groups and all the representatives in this House. Meeting these challenges by the year 2023 will require the contest and the best of all of us. The Government is very aware of this and therefore from the very beginning we have become the cornerstone of our action, the central value of everything that implies the development of our democracy, the attitude of dialogue; dialogue with the political forces, dialogue with the social actors - which has been broken, as you recall, in the previous governments of the right - and dialogue between the institutions and the Government; therefore, dialogue of the Government of Spain with autonomous communities and with the municipalities. Dialogue, dialogue and dialogue, and not because it is an obligation - for no one it is obligatory to seek understanding - but because it is for us a necessity of the time we live, something that we cannot renounce and which defines us not only as democrats, but also as people who seek political consensus in the sense that everyone feels represented in decisions. Understanding, ladies and gentlemen, not because we agree on everything - it is obvious that we are not in this House; in fact, legitimately, we represent different political options - but precisely because we know that we have differences and in differences we look for meeting points. Understanding because we understand that, despite those issues that differentiate us, public action is much stronger when part of that agreement, and citizens ask us for understanding. The citizens ask us, at least as far as they are concerned, to agree. And I also agree because part of politics is really to confront projects, to be able to show what is what makes us different, but when that differentiation to what leads to denial or obstruction the politics is degraded, the institutions are resented and, therefore, the citizenship is removed. The pandemic, and I think the war too, is leaving us some lessons that we should not lose sight of. The most important thing is that we cannot respond to these problems as isolated individuals, but we have to do so as a society. We're only going to overcome the difficulties if we do it together. That is why it is so important to have a constructive public debate away from the demonization of the adversary; a debate that abandons the obstructive policy and demonstrates to the citizenry that government, parliament and autonomous and local administrations are aware of the reality of the day-to-day life and we fulfil the responsibility of serving not so much the partisan interest, but the general interest. Aware, as we are all, of this historical time that we live, from that responsibility and with a vocation of dialogue, he requested the appreciation of the extraordinary circumstances that we are experiencing, which, according to the Constitution itself, make it possible to overcome the limits of the deficit and public debt that our fundamental norm establishes. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we have been demonstrating throughout the legislature that this government understands the public sector on a double front: on the one hand, the state as guarantor of the welfare state and, on the other hand, the administration as a tractor of the economy at times of difficulty like the one we are living in. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers - and so far in this House - set the limit of non-financial expenditure that we put forward for the preparation of the next budgets at 198 221 million, which is 1.1% more than in the previous year. This means reaching a historical figure. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic figure. I say this because I have been able to hear in public statements from some members of this House who do not agree that the government is able to say historically what it really is, but I think it is important to highlight that the public resources available to citizens have never before had this dimension in order to be able to draw up accounts that can meet their needs. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of these exceptional circumstances, we have raised a ceiling of expenditure like this which I am informing you of. The objective is quite clear: firstly, to consolidate economic growth and job creation, because, as you know, we are also in record numbers of the membership of workers in social security, mainly in the youth environment and, of course, among women; secondly, to maintain the investment effort, no doubt greatly intensified by the recovery plan, ensuring the development of policies that are key to our country, such as science, scholarships, research, health or education, and, thirdly, to protect the working middle class, vulnerable groups and the productive sector from inflation that results mainly from rising energy prices. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this figure I have just given you of EUR 198 221 million is going to set that limit on non-financial expenditure on this budget. If we discount, within this design, the resources derived from the recovery plan, which exceed 25 billion euros, a figure slightly lower than that of the previous year, the limit of what we might call national expenditure would be 173,065 million euros, that is, 1.9% more than the previous year or, in other words, with the resources coming from the regular budget, a greater effort is being made to try to accompany the families or our productive sector. This increase, above all, aims to bet on investment, beyond those resources from the funds, with the aim also of enhancing employability and social policies. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the expenditure ceiling provides for a transfer to Social Security of EUR 19 888 million, which is 8.1% more than in the previous year, in line with the Government's commitment to the Toledo Pact approved by this House for the sustainability of the public pension system. Therefore, the budget, which will be presented in time and form in this House, will respond to this structural expenditure, regardless of the extraordinary measures that need to be extended also in connection with the prolongation of the war in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, as the time approaches, when the measures currently in force come to an end, we will take the decision on which measures need to be extended or whether additional measures need to be incorporated. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all aware that we are in an extraordinary situation, which led the European Commission to communicate last May the extension of the safeguard clause of the Stability and Growth Pact to allow the suspension of fiscal rules by 2023. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, just as we are informed of the expenditure ceiling - as I have just done in the first part of my presentation - I would like to ask you to appreciate, if this House considers it appropriate, that there are extraordinary circumstances which make it possible to suspend this rule, in line with what our European partners are in turn approving and with the recommendation of the European Union. However, the fact that fiscal rules are in suspense does not mean, as we have been saying, that the Government should waive fiscal responsibility. To those who speak of waste or deficit, I would like to say that Spain, with the government of President Sánchez, went out of the excessive deficit procedure before breaking down the pandemic and that we have had, ladies and gentlemen, four consecutive quarters to reduce public debt; I insist, reducing and improving the balance of our accounts, despite the fact that extraordinary spending measures have been put in place to accompany the productive fabric and also families. I'm just gonna give you some data. The general government deficit has been reduced from 10.3% in 2020 to 6.9% in 2021, which has meant the largest reduction in the public deficit in our entire history. And the forecast for the current year, by 2022, is that the figure is 5%; ultimately, it has reduced the imbalance in public accounts caused by the pandemic by more than 50%. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this year we end up with a deficit, if all goes according to plan, of 5%, and it is important that all those political groups who talk about whether the state is inflated with inflation or that there is extraordinary revenue. I would like to say to your ladies and gentlemen that all the measures put in place have had a cost only for the public coffers of the General Administration of the State, not counting autonomous communities or municipalities, of more than EUR 30 billion, a figure higher than the increase in the collection that was not noted in the general budgets of the State. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our commitment is to improve the fiscal balance and that is why, in the Council of Ministers' agreement, the deficit forecast for 2023 is 3.9%, in line with the stability programme that we referred to the European Union in April; fiscal responsibility. Also, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the welfare state will continue to respond as to date so that we can really be able to accompany this moment that citizens live in. For the Executive, this new preparation of the budget means, in short, to protect the middle class, the workers of the country, according to the principle that this Government must be able to work for the majority. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to do this work of consolidation, in this case not at the expense of the citizens, but precisely by strengthening the welfare state, creating employment and with economic growth that some, despite the evidence, are committed to denying. The suspension of these fiscal rules also eliminates the objectives of budgetary stability for the autonomous administrations and for the municipalities, and replaces them, as has been customary since the beginning of the health crisis, with reference rates for these communities to have a framework in which to draw up their public accounts and, above all, a predictability on how the Autonomous Liquidity Fund will behave in order to make their treasury calculations. This deficit reduction, ladies and gentlemen, will largely fall to the central administration, as expenditure will be narrowed from 3.8% in 2022 to 3.2% in the coming year. However, autonomous communities and local entities will have greater investment capacity by expanding their potential for spending. In particular, the agreement of the Council of Ministers raised the margin for autonomous communities, which had a reference rate in the stability programme of 0.1 %, to 0.3%, just so that they could cope with this exceptionality resulting from the crisis in Ukraine. That, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that it will allow these administrations to invest more resources in policies that affect citizens, especially the welfare, health, education and social services state. To compensate for this greater margin given to autonomous communities is why the reference rate of the General Administration of the State goes from 3.4 in the document to 3.2 in Brussels. We therefore take on a greater effort on the part of the public accounts to be presented in this House. In the case of municipalities, as in the case of communities, they will have a greater margin of expenditure, since the reference rate for 2023 is equivalent to a surplus of 0.1 %, one tenth less than the figure in the April stability programme. That is to say, although the resources that go to the municipalities are increased, we maintain their deficit rate and this results in increased spending capacity. Finally, the social security reference rate will be 0.5 % of GDP, highlighting, as I said, the 8 % increase in the transfer from the general accounts of the State. I conclude, Madam President. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is a country, a territory that we share with all those who represent citizens legitimately in this House. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u6	A country means to this Government, above all, a promise of coexistence, a future to build; ultimately, a project to fulfil. Perhaps catastrophe, denial or obstructionism can be an electoral strategy, but certainly, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a country project. That is why, gentlemen of the People's Party, you did not choose the citizens either to destroy the government or to make a policy of burning land, but actually to build a country. That expression, those slogans of 'letting Spain fall' or 'the worse better', that permanent obstructionism can be described in many ways, but none of them is that of being a project for our country. I do not object to the fact that we must continue to live in political toxicity. We have an opportunity in this vote because we know the moment we are living in. They know that this proposal is necessary because we govern not only in the municipalities, but also in the autonomous communities. European partners are addressing and agreeing on similar measures in their countries, and I know that we share the need to appreciate this circumstance for the suspension of the tax rule. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be a good sign of unanimity in this House that we are addressing the citizens with this firm commitment to work each on the budgets they have to draw up with the only view to that welfare, because, ladies and gentlemen, after each of the figures I have mentioned there is an idea that Spain can be stronger, can be more cohesive in the face of problems. After this data there is a real commitment to the middle and working class of the country. This is not a partisan proposal, but it is made, as appropriate, by the Government, but it is a proposal aimed at consensus and at the whole of the citizens. I know that it is not a blank cheque for the end of the road, and I say this above all for the political groups that want or have expressed a willingness to support the Government in the preparation of public accounts; it is not a cheque, but it is the beginning of a path that will be good for us to walk together, that each of us will bring their uniqueness so that, in the end, the accounts will be improved. This is not, therefore, the final point or the last word, but it is the first and allows us to open a path of dialogue that we propose to be a consensus on the final outcome. The Spanish Government does not doubt that it will do so with institutional loyalty, with a search for consensus, and it is there, in that loyalty and in that search for the agreement where, I am convinced, we will find ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. In the turn of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here again, the fourth consecutive, to vote that Spain is going to be fatal; to take advantage of the fact that Europe has re-mobilised the safeguard clause of the Stability and Growth Pact, to consider the situation exceptional, which it is, and to give them the opportunity to circumvent all the fiscal rules that allow us to ensure the medium or long-term sustainability of our public finances. Neither the deadlines, nor the procedures, nor the mandatory reports of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the CNAL, nor the information to this Parliament so that we can fulfil our role of budgetary control of the Government. Where is the ad hoc report of the Banco de España? They're not. Remember that it was precisely this function that gave rise to parliaments. They point out that, following the guidelines laid down by the European Union, Spain must once again activate the clause provided for in our legal system allowing a temporary suspension of the tax rules. As I would repeat with regard to interventions from previous years, I will only refer to two issues of different signs: what they bring us and what they do not facilitate. I start with the second, so they don't, and they don't care if they are repeatedly claimed and even demanded by the AIReF. The stability law is very clear: you have an obligation to submit a rebalancing plan as a result of the 2020, 2021 and 2022 clauses, but you do not. It gives them the same; moreover, they know that it would compromise them in their fragile balance of alliances, even within the Government itself, and they do not even want to hear about it. And it is important, ladies and gentlemen, because more often than not we read or hear the demand for new policies that would pose risks to fiscal stability. They serve two examples: the international commitment to increase defence spending up to 2% of GDP, i.e. practically doubling it, which computes in deficit and must fit into the budgetary scenario, but it is not explained how, or the multiple presentations by the government wing of Podemos, with policies of all kinds that involve increasing structural current expenditure without counterpart. And what they give us: the only prescription of the law of stability that they attend is that of the presentation of a report of the economic situation accompanying the agreement that they bring us today. It is a report dated 26 July that has not bothered to correct, showing once again that they do not have much respect for us. In these two months, ladies and gentlemen, most of the risks that the AIReF warned on that date have materialized, and what went wrong is now going to get worse. Ukraine's war continues; yesterday we had news that makes us think that its end is a little further away. Russia's gas supply has declined and there are threats that it can be cut. Supply chains do not flow, with cuts every two by three in China when new cases of COVID are discovered. Inflation is rampant and central banks have begun to take monetary policy measures that can have a dramatic impact on the growth of our economies. In fact, all analysts review their global growth forecasts downwards, and in particular the European ones. And you know its effects. A few days ago, in the Senate, the President of the Government said that this year we were going to grow by 4% and next year by 2%. The next day, in her appearance before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Vice-President Calviño said that she was comfortable with the macro table of budgets, but this one is already being touched, because neither the president's team believes it. And the reduction of the target is not swinging: 7% by 2022 and, worst of all, 26% by 2023. Actually, minister, you don't care, because what you're going to do is make a box and the box takes it out of inflation and not healthy growth, but that, minister, is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. So, to a large extent, this report is poorly completed, not only by growth, but also by its estimates of employment - they do not take into account what happened in August - by the calculation of projected inflation and even by the interest rate scenario which affects the cost of sovereign debt so much and which is already at very high levels and directly affects the budgetary scenarios. The presentation of the economic report is the only thing that complies with the law of stability, because, as in previous years - as you have just said - you understand that, after activating the escape clause, of the rest of the fiscal obligations nothing at all. On the other hand, Europe, by mobilising the safeguard clause, requires governments to comply with the recommendations of the European Semester, and in this context it is particularly worth highlighting one of them, namely to ensure a prudent fiscal policy in 2023, in particular by limiting the increase in current expenditure financed at national level below the potential growth in the medium term. Europe does not refer to the expenditure ceiling that we do not approve today. As you well know, it refers exclusively to central government expenditure. The obligation refers to the consolidated budgetary scenario, to the expenses and revenues of all public administrations - state, social security, autonomous communities and local corporations -, from wages to investments, through debt and pension interests, and to the tax system as a whole, including taxes on the three levels of government and social contributions, a complicated puzzle in times of crisis and uncertainty - I understand - but which reinforces that fiscal policy cannot be neutral. We have no foreign exchange policy and we are beginning to suffer the effects of monetary policy in the hands of the European Central Bank, which, in terms of growth, must be compensated by the powerful tool, fiscal policy, which the government can manage. But we've heard it and seen the deal. I understand that non-economic indicators are important, but when economics go so badly - and go very badly, minister - they become priorities. Without financial sustainability, administrations will not be able to provide essential public services, which should not be financed with debt. If growth is not generated and, therefore, employment, public accounts will not be healed and the debt spiral with rising costs will stifle our institutions. That is why we are so concerned about the proper and diligent implementation of the funds of the reconstruction mechanism, that, if they are weighed down and compute the same several times, they have a very low level of implementation. We are concerned, Minister, because to grow they also help the other economic actors, who need confidence, tranquillity and clear and stable rules, and that confidence deteriorates not by the reasoned opinion and requirements of a serious and responsible alternative, such as the People's Party, but by the changes in criteria, confrontations and counter-programming within the Government to which we are accustomed.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u9	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u10	Yes, I conclude, Madam President. We are going to abstain in the vote because we do not agree with what they understand is the mobilisation of the safeguard clause, what forces them to do and what they do not do, and when the budget comes, we will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, just two years ago the government of Pedro Sánchez came to this House to ask for a blank cheque for its budgetary policy. The gravity of the epidemic, the imperative need to give an extraordinary response to an extraordinary situation and the difficulty of making realistic predictions could apparently justify the suspension of fiscal rules, but the background, irresponsibility and budgetary indiscipline of this Government were to relax the control that this House has an obligation to carry out to the Executive. Once again, there was only VOX left. We then refuse to be complicit in an uncontrolled increase in spending that would put us in a situation of extreme vulnerability, without framing it into a budgetary rebalancing plan that would ensure the sustainability of public accounts. Minister, it is required by law, but for two years it has not complied with the legal obligation set out in section 11.3 of the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act. [[The Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] I remember him, because he says not with his head. That law expressly states, Minister, that the temporary deviation of the public deficit cannot endanger fiscal sustainability in the medium term and, moreover, that in cases of extraordinary deviation must be accompanied by a rebalancing plan and that such a plan must be referred within a maximum period of one month from the date on which the non-compliance is found or the circumstances justifying it are assessed. I remember it because the Banco de España and the AIReF remind you of it every time they get a chance. Last time, only 15 days ago. Humbly, we have also been claiming the VOX Parliamentary Group through numerous initiatives for more than two years, and today we are claiming it again. The health of public accounts is one of the foundations of a country's credibility, which you have laminated. Socialist ladies and gentlemen, when you have no explanation for something you always welcome the same magic triangle: virus, Putin, Franco. They have not yet had the boldness to bring us to Franco on this occasion, but in these years of extreme suffering for Spanish society we always have a constant, the consolidation of superfluous public spending and the failure of the objectives that justified the extraordinary suspension of fiscal rules: saving companies, saving jobs and being next to the Spaniards who most needed it. Let us not forget that in these years the Government of the twenty-two ministries has consolidated and increased political spending as never before seen in Spain. In the worst moments of our history it is when we have had the government that has spent most of our history. [[Applauds]] Never has a Government held higher positions, advisors and trusted staff, and while companies were struggling to survive, while families tightened their belts, they were raising salaries. There has been a 56% increase in union departures; they have renewed the fleet of official cars; they have more than doubled the expenditure for official advertising and advertising; they have saved Chavista airlines; they have fired the expenditure on feminist bars and fed ideological guilders. Ladies and gentlemen, the suspension of the tax rules triggered the public deficit and placed the debt in historical terms, but it did not at all prevent the biggest increase in poverty in the euro area, the irreversible damage that has been caused to the productive fabric and that Spain has been released in recovery. We are the latest in the table of the European Economic Evolution League 2019-2022. And it turns out that now, without ERTE, without extraordinary expenditure of unemployment benefits, without the presence of automatic stabilisers to justify it, they present us with a ceiling of expenditure of EUR 2 billion, higher than that of that extraordinary moment, and they give every correction of the deficit to the increase of collection, largely derived from inflation and also derived from all the taxes that the Minister of Finance has denied me four times that they were going to carry out to the most suffered Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Another twist of the irresponsible, reckless and openly damaging budget policy, which two and a half years after the pandemic makes recovery enormously difficult and which will unfortunately leave very difficult scars to heal. Minister, we've been warning you for three years and, unfortunately, the time has come. After the July rise, on 8 September the Council of the European Central Bank decided to raise interest rates in the euro area by 75 basis points, the greatest increase in its history, and Spain, unfortunately, will start paying, and much, for the interest of the debt, and the rise of the rates catches us without the duties done. The imbalance in public accounts is already structural, not cyclical, and the AIReF warns you that with these policies public debt could reach 140% of gross domestic product. The structural reforms have been abandoned, and not only that, is that today in Spain the education system or the framework of work or the sustainability of pensions are worse than two years ago, not better, and the only solution you propose is to raise taxes again and to extract more income from the Spanish sufferers. Minister, there may be only one more VOX left, but don't count on us to continue firing political spending in an irresponsible way while hiding the reality from the Spaniards of how the fiscal pressure is rising. [[Applauds]] Families, SMEs, traders and self-employed people have endured much, they can no longer do so. According to the Civismo Foundation, the Spaniards worked on average 193 days to fulfill their tax obligations, until July 13th, the day of fiscal liberation, but it is that with the inflation of 10,5%, for which the dogmatism of this government is very responsible, the Spaniards will work thirty-eight more days this year, until August 20th, only to counter the rise in prices, and you not only avoid suppressing one of their privileges and prebends, not only do you not deflate the IRPF receiving 15 billion euros extra, it is that above you announce more ascents. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has already done too much damage to Spain; it has blown up the foundations of budgetary policy and once again, Your Honor, we are going to say no. VOX is not going to be co-responsible for this hunchback. Rectify, re-activate the path of responsibility, approve a credible fiscal consolidation plan and therefore return the credibility to the public accounts of a nation, which is the best presentation card in the outside world, because you may be overwhelmed by mathematics and the game is to exchange prisoners for budgets, but that time is running out, ladies and gentlemen. The Spaniards will soon stop paying for the party of sanchismo because very soon the time will come and Spain will decide. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u14	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen, President. For the third consecutive year we are dealing with a measure of exception, as has already been said, although strictly only the first time was exceptional; the second I would say that it was coincential and the third we can say because it is structural. Perhaps we should start by recognizing once and for all that these protocols inherited from the old architecture of the 2008-2012 crisis long ago ceased to serve, if ever did. In any case, today the government is committed to maintaining public spending in this House that will not exceed 198.5 billion euros, as the minister has announced. This is a nominal increase of some EUR 2 billion over last year, which means, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, a clear containment in real terms given the inflationary context in which we are in. In any case, we believe that it reflects the will of this Government to maintain a fundamental cycle of expansive fiscal policy at a time of productive transition such as the one we are living on so many fronts and sectors, a few years of convulsion, in which we are still emerging from an unprecedented pandemic crisis as we enter a long winter. It is precisely in this context that I am not so much going to ask you, Madam Minister, for a debate on budgetary policy, although the parliamentary procedure certainly refers to it, but rather for a debate on fiscal policy. I'd say more. I believe that in this third process, this year more than ever, we all owe this debate. Since we could not have it there in March, when the committee of experts published its long-awaited white paper and when precisely the prospect, then certain, of a war on European soil called for a rapid reaction, at least now the debate on the limits of public spending in Spain, so linked to the question of who pays more taxes and who pays less, seems to me to have to comply, a debate in which you too have entered, as could not otherwise be, not only with proposals recently launched through different forums, but with concrete and broad-ranging actions. Just remember some recent measures taken in the fight against inflation, such as the EUR 8 billion that has led to the reduction of electricity VAT and the EUR 210 million that is expected of gas VAT until December. On the other hand, the announcement of an early harmonisation of corporate tax at a minimum of 15%, in coordination with other major western economies, such as the United States, France or Germany, is a hopeful qualitative step, not only to avoid the unstoppable deterioration that has been taking place on its tax bases over the past fifteen years, but also because it shows that the debates that began decades ago in multilateral forums such as the OECD can come to fruition someday. Likewise, Mrs Montero, you stood out yesterday by pointing very specifically to the great fortunes of this country as one of the elements on which to act promptly. What can I say at this point, Mrs Montero, that it is not advantageous or even unsavory? I'll just tell you this. I honestly believe that we have wasted a precious amount of time not having approved the inclusion of the PL which my parliamentary group presented at the last session in order to finally implement a tax on the great fortunes in Spain. Already then during your presentation I myself will be in your group from this rostrum to a frank debate, open to a long parliamentary process, for having finished the year with a key measure, and you know that I am not telling you so much by your ability to collect, but because otherwise we could not look at the face of our people, the people who have put us here, to ask you also for efforts and sacrifices in order to endure a new crisis. That is why the fiscal debate is no longer urgent, but inevitable, and it is therefore necessary to talk about other tax figures who are in the public debate these days thanks to Mr Moreno and Mrs Ayuso, for example, because what we are seeing now about the property tax, and by extension to all autonomous taxation, is simply not a receipt. It's not a receipt, ladies and gentlemen. That Mr Moreno is talking about healthy competition with Catalonia is already on the line. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this tax dumping, which must be urgently legislated against, simply cannot be accepted, cannot be tolerated. It does not go against Catalonia, it goes against all and against all, but above all it goes against the vast majority of people living in Andalusia, Madrid, Murcia, Galicia, Castile and León. Or does this not have a direct correlation with the deterioration of health and public services experienced in these communities over the past few years? You know very well... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u16	I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that you know very well who you represent. You're never wrong about that. Nor can we stop referring to reductions in indirect taxation, as we are in this fiscal debate, another tool that the Government has already helped in its fight against inflation, as it has already said. In any case, it has not yet been operated exclusively on specific sectors, which makes it difficult to manage these falls more progressively. In this regard, we still find the old complaints about the VAT reductions in women's hygiene products, veterinary services and hairdressers to be entirely relevant, of which we have already spoken on another occasion. Allow me one last thought about the urgent need for decisive action in the field of taxation in Spain. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Central Bank has begun the path of the rise of types no less than with 75 basic points. The main reasons have been the fight against inflation and the continuing deterioration of the exchange rate of our currency vis-à-vis the dollar. Although the measure was approved more than two weeks ago, the deterioration of the type has not ceased to continue at exactly the same rate as before - exactly the same - that is, it does not seem to be serving for the first. With regard to the second, the fight against inflation, it will hardly be possible for any monetary authority to avoid strangling energy markets, i.e. a supply shock at the base of the production chain, which is also caused by exogenous factors, much less by the rise in interest rates. Simply, that's not the tool. What I do say to you, Minister, is that the lack of harmony between fiscal and monetary policy does not bode well. If Frankfurt does not accompany, as it had done until recently, the fiscal efforts of the European States in the fight against a crisis in the near future, we will all see ourselves in an impossible situation. Here we are all clear that the inflationary spiral has very little to do with wages; in fact, it is the workers who are the first to pay the duck. It is very likely that the wages in Spain will end this year having lost more than 4 points in purchasing power, while the business margins will have been maintained or will have grown miraculously, as they have already done over the last few months. If the State does not compensate for this net transfer of wage income to capital income through redistributive policies, and if the European Central Bank is also disaligned, we will experience a downward trend in consumption and investment, and this means that we will all be heading for an economic recession with unpredictable consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u18	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies, minister. For the third time, we debated and voted in this Congress the assessment that we are in an extraordinary emergency situation and the deficit rates for the various public administrations: the last two times, as a result of the economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, which caused the European Commission to suspend fiscal rules, and on this occasion because of the war in Ukraine, which is causing an increase in prices that is affecting thousands of families throughout the Spanish State. This has led to the maintenance of the safeguard clause one more year by the European Commission by 2023. The deficit rate for the coming year is set at 3,9 % for the general government as a whole. For the autonomous communities, the deficit reference rate is set at 0.3% of GDP; this figure is better than 0.1% of GDP that the government had initially reported, and is in line with what the President of the Generalitat, Pere Aragonès, had proposed. These two tenths more will allow an additional expenditure of more than 500 million euros by the Generalitat de Catalunya. I believe that no one in this Chamber can deny that we are in a situation of extraordinary emergency. Russia's occupation of Ukraine has caused a crisis that is affecting thousands of families. The rise in fuel, light, gas and shopping basket prices has caused many families to live to the limit. Yesterday we were aware of Eurostat's data on the risk of poverty or social exclusion in the European Union, and we were aware of a data which is new, but which is also shocking: in 2021 in the Spanish State, 27.8% of people are at risk of poverty or exclusion, taking fourth place on the list, after Romania, Bulgaria and Greece, and we are sure that this figure will increase during this year 2022. We will all agree that the coming months are going to be very difficult for thousands of families in this country: with rising inflation, which is going to continue for months, the rise in interest rates and the rise in euribor, which is already causing the rise of many mortgages. That is why we are convinced that it is now more than ever necessary for public administrations to have all the tools at their disposal to alleviate the disasters of this crisis. We have said this on many occasions: in extraordinary situations, extraordinary measures; in situations of crisis and economic recession, expansive policies. But being able to apply expansive policies tops frontally with the austere wall built by the PP and the right in 2012 and tops frontally with those who, as a solution to the 2008 crisis, prescribed cuts and precariousness. It is clear that this did not go well and that it impoverished society as a whole. That is why, beyond this much-needed debate today, we must discuss and decide what we will do when fiscal rules are back in force and the financial stability law, as amended by the PP and Minister Montoro, is enforced. Minister, you know what our position is on this issue, as we have talked about it many times. For years we have paid for the consequences of a law of financial sustainability that has expressed without palliatives to autonomous communities and municipalities; a law that imposed rules as unfair as the rule of spending; such an absurd rule that prevented the administration closer to the citizenry, such as the municipalities, from allocating its surplus in investments for the well-being of its neighbours and neighbours. Therefore, it is necessary to put forward the future and we ask for courage: courage in order not to return to rules that centrifuge deficit objectives, which limit the investment capacity of the autonomous communities and of the municipalities as the central administration increases year after year; courage in repealing article 135 of the Constitution, which prioritizes the payment of the debt above guaranteeing the welfare state; courage in order for the public administrations to carry out expansionary policies and structural investments, and courage in undertaking a profound fiscal reform that graves the great assets, the higher incomes, the higher ones they have, and relieves the fiscal burden of the working classes, SMEs and self-employed workers. [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u20	Thank you, President. You put the focus, Minister, on the amount. He has talked about figures, he has even talked about record figures, but what we really care about is knowing where this money is going to be invested, how, where and who this money is going to go to; Catalonia certainly not. But before you enter where you invest the money, let me tell you how and what the Government of Catalonia invests the money in. We are told that we do not compare Madrid and Catalonia because it feeds the chryspation and does not help the reunion. Let's see if today you understand why it is necessary to compare Madrid and Catalonia. In Catalonia we allocate 7% more per capita in health than in Madrid per capita in health; we allocate 15% more in education; 86% more to the promotion of occupation; 74% more in culture and 64% more in research. The citizens of Catalonia paid more than EUR 50 billion in taxes, contributed 20% of the total revenue to the Spanish State and received only 10% back. More than EUR 20 billion of the citizens of Catalonia go to Madrid and do not return. There are therefore EUR 20 billion of the citizens of Catalonia who cannot invest in education, health, employment promotion, culture, research, aid to small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people, accompanying the talent that exists in Catalonia or eliminating taxes that have become fashionable, as Andalusia or Murcia have done. [[Rumors]] But there is a small difference between Andalusia or Murcia and Catalonia, which everyone always uses to scratch four votes. The differences are that Andalusia or Murcia are communities that receive money, that they charge, and Catalonia is a community that pays; Catalonia always pays. The Government of Spain... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u22	... It has implemented 55% of the budget for 2022 in Madrid and 18% in Catalonia. It has implemented 184 % of the budgets of 2021 in Madrid and 35 % in Catalonia. It has opened 84 kilometers of new lines in the last 25 years in Madrid and zero in Catalonia. A total of 153 % of the planned investments in ADIF and Renfe have been implemented in Madrid and 24 % in Catalonia. You have invested 308 euros per inhabitant in Madrid and 95 euros per inhabitant in Catalonia. Don't repeat, Minister, that you do, because you do not. And I'm not saying it, it's reflected in the numbers. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u24	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone - who I doubt - has the morale and the courage to be following this session live or on television and ask you what we are going to vote on at this point, I am sure you will not agree after listening to everything we have heard. Here everyone comes, explains their book and will find their court for social networks, but for those who are lost, today, vote, what we will vote is if this Congress appreciates that the exceptional circumstances referred to in articles 11.3 of the Budget Stability Act and 135.4 of the Constitution occur. The Democratic Party understands that in the situation of energy crisis and war in Europe, caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the circumstances are given to apply these articles and we will therefore vote in favour. And here's the end of the story. With regard to the spending ceiling that the Government reports, I have heard many things. Some, which is a great waste; others, which is an expansive budgetary policy. I give you one thing: the increase in the expenditure ceiling, which they call national, removed the effect of the funds from the transformation programme, is 2378 million euros, an increase of 1,9 %. Man, with an inflationary scenario at the end of the year around 7% or 8%, increasing by 1.9% does not seem to me to be a great waste or an excessive budgetary policy. I think it's a reasonable increase. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Finally, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, minister. We are going to vote yes to this spending ceiling because it is certainly historic, it is higher than all the precedents, but it is higher too - you have pointed out - because it incorporates European funds. It is possible that the following may no longer be so and, in addition, that they may be faced with somewhat stricter rules. That is why it is essential, so that they can remain equally ambitious in the protection of the weakest and in the investment in our country, to undertake a tax reform in order to pay more who has the most and to get closer to the average of European collection, in line with what the European Commission has just recommended. I say this in these days when the right has decided to open a battle on a land that he believes will be favorable to him, that of the fiscal rebellion of the richest. I think in this case you have to take their gloves and give them the argument face to face, explaining things. The property tax is a tax that pays only those who, discounting the first house, also have properties and shares for 700,000 euros, that is, we are talking about Spaniards who have a wealth of 1 million euros, about 0.4% of the population of our country, to whom they want to make a gift. What does it mean to give them a check and give this tax to the richest? It basically means forgiving money to those who do not use public services so that those who do use it, we use it in worse conditions: gifts at 1% and cuts at 99%. What happens when this policy is implemented? It happens that your son - not his -, when he goes to the health center, has no appointment in pediatrics because not enough specialists have been hired; his does not happen, because he has private insurance. It happens that your grandfather, in the residence, ends up eating food so disgusting - because it has been sold to the worst bidder - that he spends hours without eating; his does not, because he goes to a private residence. It happens that you, when you can't anymore and you need a psychologist in the public, put you on a waiting list of up to six months; they, who are forgiven the taxes, the richest, don't happen because they can be paid 70 or 80 euros each week, if they need it. That's what the fiscal dumping we're discussing these days is about, that's what this kind of race of insolidity that the People's Party has opened up to put some communities to compete with others to see who sells cheaper, in a dynamic that, yes, really fractures our country and breaks interterritorial solidarity. In the face of this rebellion of the privileged, who claim their right to selfishness, the Government has the social support and the majority in this House to act firmly, without re-centralizing anything. Set a minimum type of assets and estates below which no one can compete unfairly and set a limit on the bonuses to the millionaires, which we already make many gifts to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning; good morning, minister. For a moment it has happened to me like Mr Bel, who thought he was in another debate. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating today and we have to vote on is whether or not the tax rules can be suspended, given the exceptional circumstances as a result of the war and the energy crisis. Everything else is a debate on the expenditure ceiling, but we do not have to vote on it. That mechanism so that our country can overcome the limits of structural deficit and public debt due to the crisis resulting from the war and the energy crisis, as I said, is an extraordinary suspension of fiscal rules and is in line with the measures taken in the rest of Europe. Of course, my parliamentary group cannot oppose this agreement, because we are responsible and aware that our country is living in an exceptional situation, and exceptional must be the tools to confront it, but I must say one thing: no one is harmed for a long time without his own fault. Exceptionality cannot become something structural. If we do not make quiet reforms, there will come a point where this exceptionality will have to be reversed, and then we can have problems. The government presents the spending ceiling with a macroeconomic scenario in which it lowers growth, revises inflation upwards, revises the interest rate forecast upwards, maintains the unemployment rate by 12% and, nevertheless, presents a spending ceiling that is once again historical - or marked as historical - of almost EUR 200,000 million. Minister, it is true that Europe has recognised that this suspension of the rules is due to an exceptional situation, which we do not doubt, but the European Commission itself also directly points out to Spain that the measures to be taken in this exceptionality must be prudent in countries with a high debt ratio. We believe that despite everything, despite exceptionality, rules of containment are needed, because their absence would lead us to budgetary chaos and irrecoverable imbalance for future generations. We must be vigilant in ensuring that the Government maintains a prudent attitude and does not jeopardize our budgetary stability. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u29	Mrs. Muñoz, excuse me. I have to ask for silence again, please. Don't keep talking in the hallway, please. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u30	Thank you, President. Having said that, and in the context of our position on this, I would like to make a couple of assessments in relation to the expenditure ceiling and the future annual accounts that we are expected to discuss soon in this House. The agreement of the Council of Ministers reflects this ceiling of expenditure, which, as the Minister has commented, is a national expenditure, plus the Next Generation Funds, of 198,221 billion euros, and it includes a transfer of funding for inappropriate social security expenditure of almost 20 billion million; 20 billion that go to Social Security to compensate for the extraordinary diversion of pension expenditure as a result of its unsustainable revaluation, because the Government continues to insist on maintaining the link of pensions to the CPI. My parliamentary group and my party have told you on several occasions: It is irresponsible in circumstances such as these where we find ourselves, with an inflation of 10.5%, it wants to revalue pensions with the CPI, except the minimum ones. Be brave and renounce a measure that breaks the principle of equality, is unsustainable for public accounts and insolidary with young people. Even the Banco de España warns of the relatively high weight of social benefits - including pensions - in our public spending. However, you remain in your reasoning. But the worst is that the government's irresponsibility is now compounded by the irresponsibility of the People's Party, which also calls for pensions to be revalued with the CPI. It seems that we are the only brave ones who say it is irresponsible; we are the only ones because 9 million votes are at stake. That is why we use this debate to ask the Government whether it will continue to maintain that unjust, unsustainable and unsustainable commitment to continue linking pensions to the CPI and not to include pensioners in an income pact. Silo does, explaining to the young people that in addition to carrying on their backs the crisis of the present, with precariousness, inflation and impossible housing, is in debt their future. We can talk another day about the possibility of them having trouble getting a pension. Finally, I was talking at the beginning of my speech about the exceptionality that is already structural, but I say to you that budgetary flexibility must not be an excuse to divert us further from the account. That is why, as requested by the Banco de España, but also as the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority has recently reported, it is important that spending rules should be dropped and associated with the approval of a rebalancing plan that addresses the correction of the structural deficit; a plan that the Government has not yet presented; a plan on which my parliamentary group - I personally - has been calling on Vice-President Calviño seven months ago and which we have been demanding since last year. But it's not that I ask it, it's not that Citizens ask it, it's that the law asks it, it's called for in section 11.3 of the budget law and fiscal stability. I have nothing more to say. As I have already reported, we will vote in favour because that is what Europe is calling it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u32	Thank you, President. My group, as it cannot be otherwise, will vote in favour, because we have done so in previous years, for the purposes provided for in the Constitution and in the Financial Stability and Sustainability Act, a law which we believe should be repealed. In March 2020, the European Commission and the Council agreed to activate the general safeguard clause of the Stability and Growth Pact by 2020 as a result of the economic recession by COVID. It was also agreed that autumn to extend it by 2021, because the economic situation remained serious and had not just referred. Now, with the Putin war, which has resulted in an unprecedented energy crisis, the European Commission has again confirmed in June that the requirements for keeping this general safeguard clause in force continue to be met. In addition, activation is delayed until 2023, and it seems that these new tax rules will be defined at this time. My group understands that today we are still in an exceptional situation, as a result - as I have said - of the war in Putin, whose economic and social impacts are too severe and surrounded by high uncertainty which makes it difficult to think that they are going to pass on these consequences in the short term. In addition, what is proposed here today is in line with what is stated by the AIReF, which advises to keep the escape clause in line with what is agreed by Europe, which once again allows for the temporary deviation of tax rules. On the other hand, it allows for a temporary deviation from the requirements of budgetary stability and the rule of expenditure and debt, which will continue to allow the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, so that neither countries nor administrations are bound by rules that have served little before and much less serve a situation that remains exceptional, in which a policy is needed to alleviate the negative consequences of the Putin war, to combat inflation, to help the most vulnerable groups and to be able to continue, as I have said, with the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, in order to move forward in the transformation of an economic model towards a green, equal, sustainable and inclusive model, ultimately, so that all administrations can use all the resources they have before those fiscal rules are put into effect again. Europe has also understood this. Its commitment to the suspension of the rules is once again clear, because it is recommending it with policies to alleviate the consequences of the war, which is affecting citizens, as I said, especially the most vulnerable groups, through price increases, to boost economic activity, expenditure and public investment. We share this strategy of Europe, which is now being moved here through the assessment of the exceptionality provided for in the Constitution and in the law of stability, in order to be able to suspend those fiscal rules. It is a measure that benefits not only the municipalities and the autonomous communities, but also the Government itself, because with this agreement there is no obligation to present a public debt deficit path for the next period, to which all public administrations would have to adhere and which, moreover, would have to be approved by this Parliament as a first step in the preparation of the general budgets. What there are today are deficit reference rates for the various subsectors of public administrations, which in our case have to be adopted in the Joint Committee on the Concert. It is a measure that will continue to make it possible, as I have said, for all administrations - also local - to have all the funds, including those derived from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, to maintain and strengthen the provision of aid to citizens and support to vital sectors of the economic structure, to meet their own competences and competences that we still consider exceptional, such as social and employment, and to lay the foundations for such economic recovery and social cohesion and energy, ecological and digital transformation. Once again, we must take advantage of Europe's opportunity, as we do not know what it will decide for 2024, although the European rules are likely to come back, even if we hope otherwise; let us hope that the return to that past will be more flexible, with new rules that had already begun to be designed and discussed, because the truth is that those rules have little or nothing to do with the present world. It is therefore necessary to build on the consensus that exists in Brussels in this regard for its reformulation. We hope that this time they will not limit the possibilities of building a different economic policy in a decentralized State and that they can start from different paths; a qualitative fiscal framework that meets national specificities and that will also be transferred to that autonomous State. Finally, the Government informs us of the non-financial expenditure ceiling. The expenditure ceiling is the bulk of budgets and amounts to 198,221 million euros. Let me show my doubts about those who talk about this record expenditure, this historical expenditure, when - as my colleagues have already said - this expenditure increases by 1.9%, but we have an average inflation that is going to be, according to analysts, more than 8% for the year 2022 and more than 3% in 2023. We believe that the important thing is to be efficient and effective in managing that expenditure and it is also necessary to maintain a balance between indebtedness and budgets. In short, our vote in this House will be in favour of a decision that is taken at a time that is still exceptional and that allows the Government, the autonomous communities and the local authorities a much more real framework for presenting new budgets and using all the tools at their disposal to alleviate the negative effects as a result of this war in Putin and to make available to citizens the best public, health, social and educational services, which, as I have said, feel, are the foundations of a green, equal, inclusive, digital economic recovery that have people at the centre of their policies, betting on a policy that removes cuts and precariousness and drives growth. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u34	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will take the first step in the process for the budgets for the year 2023; a process of making and negotiating budgets that nobody escapes, is again produced in a context of deep crisis. After the health emergency and the harsh social and economic consequences resulting from it, we now find ourselves again in a context of social uncertainty generated by the socio-economic crisis resulting from the energy crisis, the climate crisis and this historical and inflation crisis that is hitting citizens. Again at the door of a possible recession, exacerbated by the war in Ukraine, yes, but generated by a system led by the elites against the people. If last year's budgets were described by the Government as the budgets of recovery, we believe that this year's budgets should be the budgets of transformation; budgets that should contain economic and social measures that, through bold and slow policies, begin the transformation of the current model towards a more just and sustainable one with people and with the planet. Because in addition to protection policies, which are absolutely necessary to protect the lives of the most vulnerable sectors, structural policies, aimed at improving and transforming the pillars of the current system for the benefit of the social majority, are necessary - we will not tire of saying so. That is why we agree that fiscal rules remain suspended, because, in addition to being in an exceptional context, they have been used for too long as tools that stifled the capacities of the different institutions to deploy public policies at all institutional levels. That is why we also believe this year that the investment needed to cope with the current crisis and also to bet on policies that push the economic and social changes needed for this new phase that is to be opened. We talk about social policies that protect people, that secure their basic rights; we talk about economic policies that end with the speculation that large companies make of the basic needs; we talk about fiscal policies that divide wealth, ending the accumulation that a few make of it, or about labour policies that extend the rights and labour dignity of the working class, pillars all of them, that must leave behind the phase of savage neoliberalism to start building a respectful model with people and the planet. That is what we expect from these budgets: changes that result in the well-being of citizens and balance the balance in favour of the working social majority against the economic and business elites. Budgets cannot solve the great challenges facing citizens - obviously they cannot do so, we know that - but they can indeed mark a new vision for public policies to be developed in terms of social, economic and climate justice as well. This is what we expect. We believe that the nearly €200 billion in non-financial spending agreed by the Government offers a margin for turning these billions into not spending, but investment, social investment, climate investment, health, education and housing, or sustainable industrial investment. Euskal Herria Bildu will come to this debate and budget negotiation once again with responsibility and demand to defend the interests of Basque citizens. We have no other objective than to achieve social and economic progress that improves the lives of Basques and Basques and, by extension and solidarity conviction, also of the working class of this State and its peoples. That is our will, and for that we will work another year. As we have said before, in times of crisis such as the present, in times when citizens have more fears than certainties, our duty, the duty of those who believe that politics should serve to improve the life of the majority and not to benefit the minority, is to live up to the time and act responsibly to offer the improvements that citizens expect from us. And these improvements will only come, also in these budgets, from the plurinational, progressive and leftist majority of this House, that no one forgets. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the Government too will live up to what is expected from these exceptional budgets and will come with an open and receptive attitude to improve everything that needs to be improved. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u36	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that it is essential, Minister, that I agree with you that all administrations can use all the resources, all the remnants and all the possibilities to meet, in the case of the municipalities, the social needs, and in the case of the communities and the State, the aid in this emergency situation, but I wanted to give you an important reflection today. In the debate on the state of the nation all the political forces of this Congress, except the Socialist Party, which did not value it at the time, we approved an action for all the inhabitants of La Palma who work and contribute in La Palma: a reduction of the IRPF in the coming years for the people who are having a bad time and a capitalization of the island, because it is not only the affected ones, it is the whole island. It was approved by all political forces. I ask you, from the budgets, not by political negotiation, to do that reflection, and the budgets can come with that temporary measure exclusively for the island of La Palma. I'm telling you because last year was very unpleasant. For two months we spoke to the PSOE budget spokesman, Héctor Gómez and the Government and concluded a budget agreement. Three days earlier, the two spokespersons informed me that Moncloa had given the approval, but half an hour before the voting began a serious agreement was suspended, which basically guarantees the reconstruction funds of the island of La Palma and certain matches of the REF, because there were two calls from the Canary Islands because they were not interested in the Canary Coalition. You rejected our support and our agreement. Having said all that, we are open to talking, to talking about the priorities that exist at the moment, which are the connectivity of the Canary Islands, the updating of transport and freight, which have risen by almost 300 %, and the strict compliance of the REF and the departures that have to be, especially for the island of La Palma. We are open to a serious and responsible budget negotiation as we did last year; we are ready to do so again, in the interests of the palm trees, in the interests of the Canary Islands and in the interests of this country. Last year we weren't with the radical right; it was you, and I respect it...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u37	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u38	It's over now. ...those who decided they weren't interested in the vote of the Canary Coalition. We'll sit down again, we'll talk again and try again. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I, in fact, was very puzzled when I heard that this increase in public spending is good news, because it seems to me a barbarity to spend this huge amount of millions that we do not have, because, in the last year, the public deficit has increased by nothing more and nothing less than sixty billion. Sixty billion is a real barbarity and we go at that rate constantly. There is a word that I never hear in the speech of the Government, in the speech of the left in general either: the word efficiency in public spending. There was a study by the Institute of Economic Studies that said that the same services can be provided if efficiency is improved and that we would save 14%. I've never heard of the government. They say, "No, we spend more." To provide better services? No, no, They say: We spend more to accompany families. Where do we go with them, to the abyss? Because it is where the families in Spain are going with the gasoline prices, with the gas prices, with the prices of the shopping cart. No, we're spending a lot of money to improve the productivity of companies and support them. Listen, so to support you so much, in the last year, 33,000 societies have been closed in this country. They say: No, we do it to improve public services. If we have an education that is devastated, if we have a health care with waiting lists that we hadn't seen in history. Before, when you were opposed, you asked for medical consultations in primary care for ten minutes, and now the Spanish citizens are very happy the day we call primary care and pick up the phone. That is the quality of public services with the money we have in the budgets. Therefore, before spending so much you have to ask yourself if it can be spent better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u42	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, I do not think anyone doubts that we are in one of the cases required by the Constitution to exempt the rule of spending in line with the European Union. On the other hand, although the spending ceiling set by the Government is reasonable, I would like to repeat here that what really matters is budget implementation and in this it is leaving much to be desired. In Cantabria, most of the commitments made in the last budgets are behind schedule and this year is not worth the pandemic's apology. The Government is aware that PRC support is conditional on several milestones that need to be met at their respective dates by this year. On the other hand, the Autonomous Community of Cantabria has established an expenditure ceiling with an increase of 3%; an expansive budget, as I think the times require, but prudent at the same time and designed not to incur a deficit. We expect the same from the State's budgets and, of course, the fulfilment of the commitments made with Cantabria. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. The next item is Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. The communication of the agreement of the Council of Ministers transferring the description of an emergency situation to Congress omits several calamities that affect this disturbing situation for which the continuation of the suspension of stability objectives is requested. One of them is the current State General Budgets Act, a government-damaged commodity, backed by its parliamentary partners with total contempt for the unequivocal warnings coming from national and international bodies and entities of all solvency. Mrs Montero, of those contempts these insane and dangerous budgetary and fiscal speeding sands. It is reckless to trust a government that spends, spends and spends on its widths. Let us turn back to the abysmal precedents that have already led to the economic, social and labor disruption of Spain; then, with Zapatero and now with Sánchez. What fails, once again, is socialist economic policies. Hence my vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our vote will be in favour of the adequacy of budgetary stability and fiscal rules because they are within the framework of the decisions of the European Union. Similarly, we want to transfer to the Government and to the parliamentary groups the existence of a territorial and demographic crisis in emptied Spain that is not only not being faced with decision-making, but that are allowed, when not stimulated, policies such as the implementation, without prior territorial planning, of renewable energies with micro-centrals that turn these territories into sacrificial territories without any contribution to local development; contrary to many constitutional principles that claim to defend such as equality, justice or territorial balance. The solution to the crisis of energy and war in Ukraine must be at the same time as the internal territorial imbalances in Spain and the reversal of depopulation, because turning Spain empty into a territory of opportunity would bring benefits to the whole Spanish economy and society. To achieve this objective, as we have reiterated, is essential a rural guarantee mechanism, as well as a sustained budgetary effort over time, which is what we are asking for, which should not be overlooked either by the current uncertainty and which would itself require the adequacy of budgetary stability and fiscal rules. We hope that this is the principle and that the demands that it has made many times in the Teruel Ministry exist and, in particular, the financing mechanism for aid for the operation of enterprises in the most deprived provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the People's Party, they do not tell the truth even when they vote, because you know that today your abstention is a no. Today in this House we need to obtain an absolute majority in order to be able to suspend the tax rules. What are we telling the Autonomous Communities if we do not approve with absolute majority the exceptionality of the norm? That you are not going to be able to make a deficit, that we are going back to the tax rules, that we are going back to being an emergency country in Europe, which is what you want with the tax on the extraordinary profits of banks, energy companies and oil companies. You have no sense of state, you have no responsibility of government. [[Applauds]] Your abstention today is a no as something that we are always used to. Mrs. Muñoz, from Citizens. Really? To our pensioners, to our elders, to the weakest, to those who have worked their whole lives, to whom when we are in crisis they tell our families here today in ten seconds that they do not deserve to update their pensions to the CPI? Really, they're where they deserve, where no one's waiting for them. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, we were told that Spain was fatal. We will start in 2017, the last year of the People's Party's administration, 2017. Then our country grew to 3% and for Mr Montoro we had a healthy and healthy economy. Today we grow to 4.3% and Spain is fatal. The year 2017, Spain closed with the largest public deficit in the European Union, with the largest, but for the Spanish People's Party it went well and today it goes fatal. They committed themselves to debt deficit targets that they never met and today demand compliance with public rules. On the public debt, I will give you a figure: in 2017 we were the sixth most indebted country in the European Union and you had already been managing this country for six years. When we talk about public debt, I recognize that Mr. Núñez Feijóo has an insurmountable ability. Well, he's got two. The first, which is able to tell us one thing in the morning and the other in the afternoon and pretend that we create the two arguments. The second is to criticize public debt. Mr Feijóo in the first four years of the government of the Xunta de Galicia increased the debt by 144%, 144% in four years, President Pedro Sánchez, with all that we have experienced, in four years by 23%; 144% seems very good to them and 23% looks very bad to them. [[applause]] That leads me to a conclusion, gentlemen of the People's Party: as long as one has been in politics for many years, that is not synonymous with solvency. I'm gonna give you some bad news. Today, as the minister said, the preparation of the general budgets of the state starts and they will not like anything, because there are two different models: that of those who seek to defend the interests of 99% of the households and that of those who defend the interests of 1% of them. There are those who, while you, who pay IRPF for your income from work, are offering you the magical solution of deflating the IRPF and they are telling you that you will have more purchasing power in your pocket, which means 9 euros per month; while you, working class, are offering 9 euros per month, today the Andalusians who pay wealth are giving them an average of 2375 euros per month. They are two different models: 9 euros per month for the working class, 2375 euros for their class. [[Applauds]] There are those who govern for all Spaniards, minister, and for those who pay the bills and who plan to govern for the very few who issue us the largest monthly bills. They are two different models: those who are promoting energy saving in our country and those who put a sun tax on us and now -attention! - the rain tax, a novelty, as is happening in Galicia. They are two completely different models: those who prepare a set of social shield measures to deal with all the crises we have suffered in recent years and those who systematically vote not for each and every one of these measures. Two exactly opposite and different models. That's why I'm telling you that you're not going to like budgets right from the start. Madam Minister, we can say, as you said very well, that today the exit gun is given to the general budgets of the State for 2023. In the Socialist Group we are convinced that it will be the budgets that our country needs now, in these circumstances. There is a majority in this House who understood that in 2021 we needed budgets to deal with the pandemic, a majority who understood that in 2022 we needed a country to prepare for economic recovery and, as I say to you, I am convinced that in 2023 we will be able to find a majority to draw up budgets that will respond to the energy crisis and the effect of the inflation we are suffering. For our part, it is not going to stay, we are going to make every effort to get that majority to move forward, because I am convinced that this is the goal shared by the majority of Members here in the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the draft law amending various rules to consolidate the equality, universality and cohesion of the National Health System. For the introduction of the bill, the Minister of Health has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning and cordial greetings. I am speaking in this rostrum to share with you the strategic lines of the bill that consolidates universality, cohesion and equity in the National Health System and also to respond to the full amendments presented to this bill. I would like to acknowledge the effort of dialogue and understanding of the parliamentary groups that have given up their amendments to the whole, of Junts per Catalunya and of PeCAT, to help this law begin its parliamentary process, and also to the groups that have expressed their support for the passage of this law. It has been days of intense negotiation and I would like to thank the group and the Councillor for their willingness and willingness. The arguments of both amendments to the whole raised competition issues, as well as the condition for a historical health model based on stable networks for the provision of public health services. The agreement reached is part of the recognition of this uniqueness and also that in order to reach an agreement in the legislative process it will be so before the beginning of the work in the paper. The agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is always a fortress. Consensus is the best way forward, and that is what the citizens of all of us expect and what this Government of Progress is committed to. Ladies and gentlemen, the general objectives of the bill we are debating today are spelled out in the title of this legislative initiative, that is, to establish measures to ensure equity, cohesion and universality in the National Health System to move towards a social culture that places public health in policies, to minimize inequalities and to strengthen our country's public health system. These are therefore principles which, together with public funding and social participation, constitute the pillars of the normative development of the right to health protection as set out in Article 43 of our Magna Charter and which have been embodied since the beginning of our democracy in the General Health Act. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems important to me to mean that this project fulfils important commitments of the coalition government, together with the parliamentary groups that support it, Socialist Group and Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-EnComú Pode-Galicia in common; that is, to expand citizens' rights and strengthen our National Health System. I therefore consider it important that we have an opportunity in this debate to reflect calmly on its relevance, as it incorporates measures that will reduce health inequalities and strengthen cooperation between the different structures in our health field, so that it will enable the comprehensive approach of the health needs of the population to the many diverse challenges ahead. Before moving forward on the substance of the rule, I would like to highlight some of the issues in this bill that I think are relevant. It provides a high level of compliance with the health commitments of the government programme, is a measure contained in reform 3 of component 18 of our Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and is the satisfaction, ladies and gentlemen, of sixteen motions for resolutions from the Health and Public Health section of the opinion of the Commission for the Social and Economic Reconstruction of this House. I would also like to mean that we are before a bill in line with the order for the distribution of powers established and that in the parliamentary procedure we will work to influence, as it cannot be otherwise, the respect for the statutes of autonomy that some parliamentary groups have proposed to us, such as Esquerra Republicana, PNV, Euskal Herria Bildu, Compromís, Coalition Canaria and BNG, among others. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a government which believes in the state of self-government as a permanent factor of progress which has actively contributed to the well-being of our citizens and which functions as a formula of recognition of the plurality of our country. This implies, it is true, a constant work of dialogue and the implementation of co-governance. Thanks to constant dialogue and co-governance, we have all faced the worst health crisis in the last hundred years, which we still fight today, albeit unevenly. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to health protection is an essential pillar of our social state, hence the aim of this rule is to extend rights and strengthen the public health system. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a project which extends the right to health protection from public funds and which has, as it cannot otherwise be, also the corresponding economic memory, which guarantees homogeneity in the effectiveness of the right to health protection to persons not registered or authorised as residents of Spain. It also includes applicants for international protection, persons benefiting from temporary protection and victims of trafficking in human beings or sexual exploitation. It is true that we took a very important step with one of the first rules adopted by the first government of Pedro Sánchez, the Royal Decree Law 18/2018, but it is also true that different groups involved in the defense of universal access to health have highlighted situations that show a lack of homogeneity in its implementation in some autonomous communities and some figures that are unacceptable in the universal access to the National Health System. And, on the other hand, and no less important, this is a project that comes to strengthen public health through direct management, because public health is a fundamental pillar of our welfare state, a mature model after twenty years of the transfer of competences, a model that has shown exemplary strength even during the worst health crisis of the last century, and it is the mirror in which many systems are seen outside our borders. Proof of this is the undoubted success of the country and our National Health System in implementing the strategy of vaccination against COVID-19, which already reaches almost 93% of our citizenship and for which I am asked every time I leave our country. To meet this enormous challenge, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today amends very important health laws in our country, such as the General Health Act, the Cohesion and Quality Act of the National Health System, and repeals Law 15/1997. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, focusing on its content, article 1 envisages the strengthening of the public health system in our country. As the Economic and Social Council points out in its report on this project, public health is a fundamental part of the social protection framework, playing a decisive role as a vector of social cohesion and the compensation of economic and territorial inequalities. It is a norm, this one, which aims to strengthen structurally the National Health System, advancing in the continuous improvement of its excellence, in the strengthening of its social and professional legitimacy through the necessary public investment in what is of all and all, and all this in order to guarantee the right to the protection of universal and free health under the principles of cohesion, equity, excellence, efficiency and security. [[Applauds]] The law incorporates, ladies and gentlemen, the assessment of the impact on health in the preceptive elaboration of the memory of the normative impact analysis and the initiatives provided for in the Government's Law 50/1997. This is an approach that will apply to sectoral rules affecting, inter alia, health, housing, education, the environment, transport, land management, occupational health, agriculture, food production and also plant health. In short, it will be incorporated into those areas that have the greatest impact on people's lives. This rule, ladies and gentlemen, also provides for the amendment of the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System as regards the extension of universal access to the health system. And we do it in a unique way, which is with the unification of the performance portfolio. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the extension of universal access to the National Health System, we extend it to ascendant persons regrouped by sons or daughters who are holders of the right to health care in the National Health System who are in charge and provided that there is no third party liable to payment. Also with regard to persons of Spanish origin residing abroad during their temporary travel to Spanish territory. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this bill guarantees homogeneity in the effectiveness of the right to health protection to persons not registered or authorized in our country. To this end, the requirements that must be met by non-registered or authorized persons can be credited simply with a responsible declaration, that is, we facilitate access to health protection for these groups, we eliminate the need for social reporting, and it is also stipulated that the assistance will be made available to the public funds from the time of submission of the application. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we extend access to the National Health System, as non-rightful foreign persons with the right to health protection, to applicants for international protection, to displaced applicants and beneficiaries of temporary protection, and to victims of trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen, as a progressive, as a socialist, I am proud that this law guarantees health care to the most vulnerable people, to whom they have the least, to whom politics is the most tangible hope of having opportunities for life. [[Applauds]] That is why, and so this law can mean for the improvement of people's lives, it is worth it to be here. It is worth all efforts, each and every one of them, and request the processing of this bill. I am grateful to the parliamentary groups that are going to support this sensitivity and commitment, to which I mentioned earlier and also to More Country, Teruel Existe, the PRC and some members of the Joint Group. I understand that for some, for the bench on the right, this doesn't matter. For those who speak to you, and I believe that for the progressive majority of this House, whom I am addressing, it is the raison d'être of politics, the only raison d'être of politics: improving the lives of people and, especially, those who do not have. [[Applauds]] I also think it is important, ladies and gentlemen, to recover the common portfolio of services by unifying the portfolio of basic care services, the supplementary portfolio and the portfolio of ancillary services as a single portfolio. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a single portfolio of public funding without the distinctions that the People's Party introduced when it ruled so that even the most vulnerable people, for certain benefits, would have to pay back. This, ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to reversing it. We are committed to progressively eliminating the pharmaceutical coffer to the most vulnerable groups, and this people's government has done so. Yes, we have eliminated the pharmaceutical co-op for people who receive the minimum living income, for pensioners with lower incomes, for minors with recognized disabilities and for low-income people with dependent children, and with this project these groups will also be exempt from the orthoprosthetic co-op. We keep moving forward, we keep improving people's lives. We are a government that fulfills, ladies and gentlemen. We are a government that is fulfilling and moving forward so as not to leave anyone behind. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order for no one to have to choose between going to a pharmacy or a supermarket, remember? Moreover, this regulation provides the necessary guarantees for no other Government to be tempted to introduce new co-sponsors. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we incorporate the voice of patients, persons with disabilities, professionals and citizens into the Open Health Forum, and guarantee a uniform benefit that clarifies the benefits for patients with functional deficits. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, measures are also included to strengthen cohesion and equity, facilitating the viability of the regulatory development of the Assistance Guarantee Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, I believe that this is a rule that will bring solidity to the public health system as a whole and that will lead to the realization of the right to health protection by extending rights and strengthening its public health structures. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a rule that recognizes the usefulness of politics in the service of the social majority, especially in the service of those who have less. As Hannah Arendt would say, the raison d'être of politics is to secure people's lives in their broadest sense and give them nothing but life opportunities. Because that is what we are for, and that is what this legislative initiative is for, to improve the lives of many people, to see their rights expanded, to consolidate the impossibility of introducing new health co-ops and to be a reinforcement in the provision of public health services. And also, ladies and gentlemen, because this rule will help to consolidate our welfare state, to return to the citizenry what the right hand snatched from them when they ruled. This is a government of progress, and I hope that in this House with a progressive majority we will also take it forward. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the content of this rule will improve; it will improve after the parliamentary procedure, after the debate and discussion on which it will be subject in these Courts, with the contributions of your ladies and gentlemen. And I recognize that, ladies and gentlemen, I recognize that this is an ideological law - of course it is - an ideology law that makes clear the differences when it governs the right, cutting rights, and when it governs the left; a government of progress, expanding and consolidating rights. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call for the rejection of the full amendments that are being debated today so that this law can begin its parliamentary procedure and we can contribute, with your proposals, with your contributions, to improving the lives of the people, so that the rights to health protection that are envisaged in it are a reality for the social majority of this country and also for the progressive majority of this House who gave their confidence to the Government. I know there may be differences in focus. I propose that we continue to work together, from the very least common understanding, building consensus, advancing rights because, ladies and gentlemen, expanding rights is the best way to advance democratic health, which is the goal of this Government of progress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. Two amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. In defence of the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u53	Thank you, President. We regret to have to submit an amendment to this bill as a whole, in a matter such as health care. This is a law that addresses a number of issues necessary for Spanish health, but it is a project with an unacceptable ideological burden, full of biases, prejudices and prejudices. [[The Lord]] Moreover, it is a law that is born to be unfulfilled, impossible to comply with. The shortcomings of the National Health System have been evident during the pandemic. No one can escape that the manic claim made by the People's Party and the Socialist Party for decades that we had the best health system in the world was shattered by the evidence. The National Health System during the pandemic made waters everywhere: External health; coordination between the State and the autonomous communities; interpretation of the data; the unforeseeability of those who should have given the alarm; it does not need to remember some assertions of the led to a wonderful background, Dr. Simon; the so-called co-governance was chaos. With regard to the Ministry of Health, decentralization had been confused with dismantling. There were no tools to deal with a health emergency of the kind that we were at that time. If the National Health System did not collapse, it was because of the quality of the health personnel. They fought to preserve our health at the cost of theirs. The price they paid was very high. Some, the highest, life. On the other hand, neither in the general budgets of the State nor in this law have we seen a minimum of decency improving the conditions of health personnel. In Spain, health pay is around three times below other European countries. Compared to France and Germany, they are 100% and 150% lower, respectively. When a Spanish health care provider finishes his training - this time, one of the best selective systems in the world for qualified personnel - he has the choice to which no country must submit its professionals: or develop a professional career in Spain knowing that he will be underpaid or go abroad to develop a professional and personal plan. The low salary of health workers leads to very serious consequences: the shortage of professionals or the younger ones chain guards to be able to supplement the salary, with consequent fatigue. But this law that they bring here does not deal with this issue at any point, what it does is to perpetuate the conditions under which health care providers must develop professionally, their conditions are not improved and neither is the possibility that the older and more experienced ones who wish to continue contributing to the National Health System can do so. That is, we can say that what the two old parties have been saying for decades, which was the crown jewel or the best health in the world, is actually a set of magnificent professionals who go on despite the system in which they have to work and the political class they have to endure. By the way, reinforcements in primary care are neither expected nor expected. An additional 500 million for primary care was one of the conditions that citizens placed on the Government for the negotiation of the general budgets of the State. The PSOE preferred Esquerra and Bildu and there they have the results, none of the counterpart of the negotiated budgets had anything to do with health. Another of the major problems of the National Health System is that it is not national, really. It's a sort of administrative maraña, where, as you get bad or need a recipe outside of your autonomous community, get ready to pass an administrative yincana. By means of amendments, two years ago, Citizens managed to introduce the single health card into the general budgets of the State. For nothing, in order not to upset the nationalists, who want the rights cut off also the health, the Government did not implement the budget line for the single health card. I am sure that in the past holidays of this summer more than one and more than two missed a card that would allow access to treatment, a prescription medicine or a medical appointment, in their place of summer, away from their home. But no, a Spaniard in Spain may have serious problems with having health care if he needs it in the wrong place. Do they think of anything less social than the fact that you have the right or not to have the treatment of a disease, depending on the autonomous community in which you reside? For this happens permanently in Spain. There are treatments that are given or not depending on the autonomous community where the sick. We know of bloody cases of differences in access to treatments, for example, cancer. But no, this law is also not concerned that the Spanish are equal in rights. They are now concerned in the negotiation that the nationalists do not see their competitive narcissism trampled on. It happens to you, gentlemen of the pseudo-left, a very curious thing. When an autonomous community lowers taxes, you come out to say that if it is insolidary, that if we have to intervene, that if they are tax havens, but at the same time they defend Basque quotas, Catalan differential facts, linguistic barriers to access to the public service or to education or inequality in health coverage. All of this defends him without deceiving himself. I told my government colleagues when we were in the Government of Andalusia and we removed the inheritance tax due to pressure from Citizens: So that we are not criticized let us say that in al-Andalus the Arabs had no inheritance tax and that it is a sentimental matter for us. Also, for example, how we lower the IRPF sections let's say that Tartesos comes from being 'feeling stiff' and that we don't pay taxes, it would be great and, with that, we had already justified it. [[Laughter]] It doesn't matter that al-Andalus was all Spain or it doesn't matter that in Tartessos the myth of history is indistinguishable. Let's do fiscal nationalism and the left will bless our tax cuts. If these gentlemen are fine with all their victimism and prebends based on invented history and lies, why not us. But the worst thing about this law is its profound ideological burden. The prohibition of concerts with private health is an aberration worthy of a government that puts bias before management, ideology against rights and pampered dream of economic reality. I believe that the PSOE in this law has absolutely succumbed to Podemos, no matter how great the delirium is. One thing is that these gentlemen walk around with chapitas of the racist homophobic gunman Che Guevara or sacks of the genocidal Mao Tse-Tung - which I've seen them too - or the other day a fan of a lady from around there with a sickle and a hammer and it wasn't from a hardware store. But, well, those are eccentricities that... [[the lady]] Thank you for showing the wonderful fan with 80 million dead in the back. [[Applauds]] One can understand that you are totalitarian living room and that you are tamed when you step on the carpet and you already buy your good houses, you move from neighborhood and so on. You can even attribute to your lack of readings that you carry a fan of those characteristics and that you carry it as Andy Warhol carries the can of Campbell's soups. But, now, the pompite eccentricity threatens the sustainability of the National Health System. That is, in this law, gentlemen of the PSOE, they put at risk the health to satisfy the hard wing of their government. Where is the economic memory that explains the impact to eliminate private health concerts? How much is this measure going to cost the Spaniards? How much does it cost to eliminate, for example, Muface? Why do you think the state, since time immemorial, maintains this system, Minister? I hope that when the gentlemen of PSOE and Podemos come up here, they will come up with the economic memory and explain to us how they will pay for the elimination of the concerts. Another thing, the reversal of concerts, how will it affect waiting lists, Minister? Right now there are 700,000 Spaniards waiting for surgery and almost 3 million waiting for the appointment with a specialist. How will the elimination of concerts affect you, Minister? How many hospitals and clinics are going to stop providing public service? How many facilities and professionals will fail to have the National Health System? Where are the contracts for the tens of thousands of health care providers that will stop providing services to the National Health System? Who is going to perform 30% of surgical interventions in concerted facilities? How many works have started to replace the facilities that will cease to be public service under your law? What about the 400,000 autonomous people who develop their activity based on concerts with private health: physiotherapists, podiatrists, psychologists, clinicians, nutritionists, pharmacists, dentists, opticians, occupational therapists...? They've been calling on the phone to say, "Go looking for life?" And what about the tens of thousands of health workers who work in the clinics and concerted hospitals, around 350,000? Because this is the crux of the matter, gentlemen of Podemos and his PSOE vassals in this matter. A private entity may provide a public service. Citizens are not going to fit into their framework that when a public service offers it someone other than an official is no longer a public service. Do you think that when someone is cured of cancer, it arises if it has been cured by public or concerted personnel? Do you know how many people today are treating cancer in concerted clinics and that with this law you will pass to a bottleneck because there will be no machines or personnel for those treatments? Let us not forget that this law is drafted by those who go out to give birth to Amancio Ortega when he donates state-of-the-art machines that save lives every year. Minister, don't get carried away by these people. We may want everything to be paid with taxes, but as soon as they can escape them because as soon as they can not pay social insurance or mount companies screens, I no longer know if Currency is a surname or a nickname, minister. [[Laughter]] All of Europe advances in health concerts, except Spain. Spain now puts all private investment, our concert system and thousands of private sector health jobs at risk because Podemos wants to play May 68. No, this law is an aberration, minister. No, the concert system is a success. You are hypocrites, lords of the Socialist Party, if you have concerts everywhere you rule. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I assume that you will support these amendments in their entirety, even if you have not tabled one, and that you will oppose this majaderie. By the way, do you know how much private health investment you may have paralysed and, instead of coming to Spain, you may be diverted to other countries where there are no brains at the helm? Do you know that 29,4 % of the health investment in Spain is private capital? Does this investment take less care of? You're doing less research? Do you know that the saving estimate for concerts is 5679 million? Where are they going to get them? Are you going to print more money, already following the economic doctrines of the fan lady? Tattoo this: a public service is public because it is financed with public money and the citizen is not charged when he comes to receive it, because a public service does not have to always provide an official. Public-private collaboration is a model of success across Europe. There are health systems that are almost entirely based on the concert and nothing happens. The health of the Spaniards cannot be subjected to the Bolivarian whims of these gentlemen. What will come after this? The concert school? The security of public services, where there are many vigilantes from private companies? Cleaning the streets? Kindergartens? Madam Minister, are we going to have a little plugged-in pomegranate giving us a public service in any activity we need from the administration? We must stand on the wall in the face of this delusion, we cannot put the National Health System at risk for these gentlemen to play revolution. I propose one thing, gentlemen of Podemos, buy a stone-carded Berlin wall and camp on the other side, but leave us alone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u54	Thank you. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, just because of the fourth final provision, the object of which is the transplant, it would deserve to be returned this bill, so much is the ignorance or malice that rhymes. But let's go to the core. If the Government, which claims to believe in the public sector, had really wanted to improve public health, it would have brought concrete measures to improve it and not future mirages. It could have brought about a reform of the General Health Act or a reform of the harmful human resources policy. Instead, it seeks to dispense with the collaboration of private health in a hypocritical and surreptitious manner. It is hypocritical to suppress private concerts when officials and we, the Members of Parliament, enjoy a capacity of choice between the public and the private that the rest of the citizens do not have. [[Applauds]] The Lordships of Podemos have it clear, they want to suppress these mutualities, they are communists. They will then have the private doctor who goes to Galapagar's villa, the private nurse and other minucias, right? On the contrary, VOX wants all Spaniards to be able to be served with their health card anywhere in Spain and, in addition, it will work to ensure that all Spaniards have the same privilege that officials and you now enjoy: freedom of choice. [[Applauds]] The Darias project wants to suppress collaboration with the private in a surreptitiously way. The minister does not dare to ban concerts, but demands that public health managers meet requirements that are impossible to meet, simply because they do not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, public and private health are already integrated via concerts. This collaboration optimizes resources and helps the sustainability of the system. Data: 38% of private hospitals have some concert with public health; concerts are 10% of health expenditure, 8587 million, 60% of which is for hospital expenses; 8.7% of surgical interventions are performed under concert; 9.2% of radiotherapy sessions with linear accelerator and, according to a study currently in print, prices at private concerts are 32% or 90% - of a median 40% - cheaper to equal diagnosis and procedure. The contribution of the private sector is so great that it is neither rational nor feasible to dispense with it, as the consequence will be to decrease health care and its quality and the final effect will be to go against the same principles that you claim to defend. We reject this bill and we do so in its entirety because, first, it is a statist, almost communist project that wants to de facto ban health concerts; it contravenes the spirit of the General Health Law 14/1986 which includes and includes the conventions in the concerts, articles 66, 67 and 90, and which requires that health services should be given according to efficiency, speed and economy; it contravenes the spirit of the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System 16/2003, of 28 May, which in its article 2 (g) establishes public-private collaboration as a general principle and that health care should be given within a specified maximum time. Everyone here, including the minister, knows that ending the concerts is going to lengthen the waiting lists. [[Applauds]] The kick to private health will be given to patients of public health. Secondly, this project has no empirical basis. The memory cites three studies, none conclusive, and the best, which is a review of studies, says that the studies they have reviewed are not of sufficient quality and therefore nothing can be concluded. [[Laughter]] Thirdly, the bill is contradictory. On the one hand, it recognizes that public management is inefficient, but the mechanisms of its improvement are not put in place and it only provides as a solution to make concerts with the private as an improvement impossible. A lady limps down the street, carries a crutch, comes the person who has made this project and kicks the crutch. What's going to happen? Will she come out saying, "I'm cured, I'm cured?" Or will the chrism break with the sidewalk? For that woman is public health right now, because they are talking about establishing measures to establish good governance in the future. [[applause]] Observe what the Economic and Social Council's opinion says - I hope -: 'After more than twenty-five years of development, there has so far been a lack of a system of evaluation of health results to facilitate the proper use of public resources', close quotes. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, I have been working for forty-three years exclusively for public hospitals, only in public hospitals, and this is not just about indicators. It is arranged when at all levels of public health, first, the wage increases, which is of misery; the good worker is rewarded and the bad one is punished, and that with the current system is impossible. [[Applauds]] I stress it. The first and central article of this projector is criticized by the Economic and Social Council itself when it says that it is indeterminate and imprecise about the criteria for establishing concerts - I do not think so, Minister, as the Economic and Social Council says - because how can I demand that they say that the resources have been used optimally - optimally - when the criteria are not even set to see whether they have been done well, only well? Fourthly, this project is absolutely inopportune: 706 740 patients waiting; the waiting time is now four months; the specialist list has increased by 27% in 2021, 3.2 million, with a waiting time of three months. Consequences of avoiding concerts: increase the waiting time in surgeries to six months, in consultations to five, increase morbidity and mortality and increase public health spending in an interval of 1500 to 3000 million euros. If we want to reduce the waiting list, it is reasonable to do the opposite, to go to private health care, which has sufficient resources. Fifthly, this project lacks a credible economic basis and runs counter to the principles of resource efficiency, Organic Law 2/2012. Only from the socialist bald concept that public money is nobody's, can it be said, as is done here - you laugh - that the economic impact is going to be 20 million euros. But, hey, if there's going to be a 40% extra administrative cost. Sixth, and I'm finishing, huge judicialization. This is what's going to happen. You've already dealt with the independenceists, okay. Seventhly, the concept of equity is inseparable from that of justice, and it is impossible for this bill to produce justice when it does not put in place the means to improve public health and technical and human resources for our public health to have efficient, contrasted and audited health management. On the other hand, the concept of universality has been perverted. What was initially the logical desire for all Spaniards to have health care, regardless of their state of insurance, has been extended to all the inhabitants of the world, they lack health coverage for the Klingon, ladies and gentlemen. [[Laughter and applause]] And while granting total - total - health care rights throughout the Spanish territory, including transplantation, to illegal immigrants, the Spaniards are prevented from circulating and having health care with the health card in the Spanish territory. [[Applauds]] Moreover, in this bill, the Spanish residents - Dutch, Mrs Darias - who are working, for example, in Germany are required that, when they get sick in Spain, they show that the disease has happened to them while visiting their grandmother, and that is not done with illegal immigrants. What is that, Mrs. Darias? I'm going to tell you what it is - well, I'm not going to tell you, well, yes -: almost hispanophobia. [[Applauds]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. This bill is not only unfair to the Spaniards and legal residents, but it is a fine example of the hatred that socialism has for everything private. To dispense with private health is not only a political and economic mistake, but will multiply waiting lists, diminishing health care and its quality. Therefore, in VOX we say that this bill should not be dealt with - we hope your support - because it lacks a rational foundation and because the spirit that guides it, which is partisan and spurious, will generate the opposite of what you say: less equity, less accessibility and, therefore, more disease and less health. In VOX we want a simple thing and it is summed up in a phrase: freedom also in health. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u56	Thank you. Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the full debate on the draft law amending various rules to consolidate the fairness, universality and cohesion of the National Health System, our vote will be in favour of the draft, i.e. it will not support the amendments as a whole. However, during its proceedings in the Health Commission we hope that we can incorporate criteria that we have already advocated in the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction on the good governance of the organizations of the National Health System and that we will submit amendments. In this regard, we will support that the future law collects universal clinical history. We believe that the existence of autonomous health systems does not represent an obstacle or barrier to access to the patient's medical history. Universal clinical history would certainly improve care quality and reduce delivery costs. Therefore, in order to ensure the correct health care of each patient, we ask that, from the public administration, primary care doctors, specialists and hospital health personnel should be guaranteed access to the patient's medical history, regardless of the place of the Spanish or European territory where health care takes place, naturally with the requirements of guarantee, computer security and confidentiality in the processing of the data required by the current legislation and with the appropriate measures to ensure the correct use of this information, as well as its custody. Secondly, the law should also include measures to strengthen the role of primary care as the main axis of the system. Despite the Primary and Community Care Action Plan 2022-2023, the National Health System needs to expand, develop and ensure this primary care. We must ensure in the rural world, where it is most difficult, and that it meets the quality standards required, providing it with material and personal resources to carry out this work. Health centres, health transport, access to specialist doctors, access to hospital treatments and emergencies are services with deficiencies that the rural population and small towns live in unpopulated areas. There is a need to shield the existence of local rural offices at the state level and unconditionally by ensuring their face-to-face assistance. In rural areas, the human and material resources of health centres are scarcer. They should be made up of professionals from family medicine, nursing and paediatrics, as well as administrative staff. Similarly, the decentralization of the most demanded specialties should reduce the repeated displacement of patients. Therefore, connectivity and digitization also need to reach health centres and local offices. Priority should be given to ensuring the coverage of health places allocated to each health area according to the needs of each area. There is also a need to improve working conditions and provide incentives for health workers to attract their talents to rural areas and to emptied Spain. It is not fair, ladies and gentlemen, that vacancies remain and that provisionality must always be borne by the same centres and patients, as is happening, for example, in the health centre of Utrillas, in the mining basins of Teruel. We cannot always be the same centers and patients that suffer from precariousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u58	Thank you. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I listened to the minister attentively that she was going to change the life of the Spaniards with the approval of this law - until now I don't know exactly where we lived - and what surprised me was the delay: if this law is so important, if it is going to change, to revolutionize the health life of the people in Spain, how have it taken four years to bring it to Congress? [[Applauds]] Because you know that's not the case. Then you set an example that I don't know right now if it's the best. He said you won't have to choose between going to the pharmacy or the supermarket. Right now, it's cheaper to go to the pharmacy than to the supermarket. The problem you raise, I think, has to be more direct: how does life solve citizens? I mean, you can come here and tell people: look, if this law is passed, your waiting list is already going to be much smaller. That's what the citizen cares about. The one who has been waiting for a consultation or an operation for six months is asking what means you are putting together, together with the autonomous communities, who are responsible, for that waiting list to be eliminated. Are you going to do something for that, yes or no? That's the question. If I have to go to the doctor, am I going to be able to go in person now or am I going to call the doctor to get me an admin and tell me what disease I have? Is that going to change with this law, yes or no? These are the problems that citizens have. In a small town, as the speaker said, it is very difficult to find health personnel who remain there. Are you going to do something to make that happen, yes or no? Is that gonna change anything? Those are the problems people have. As one predecessor, not his own, said well, but of the Socialist Party, white cat or black cat, the important thing is that hunts. People want her to be cared for, cured, and not cost her money. Do you do that with this law? No, on the other hand, it takes away that possibility, because it is limiting the capacity of the Administration to care for citizens, because it is removing a fundamental part, concerted, non-private health, because you mix the privatization thing to say that what is wanted is that it is paid for health services. Not that the health service pays it to the agreed centers, with control. Obviously, if public service health care is saturated, it will have to take over the concerted private sector paid for by the administration, of course supervised, so that it is a decent care, so that you can heal, operate or whatever it takes. Because what they have is to give solutions. The issue of competences, which was also there, seems to have already been resolved with those who have tabled amendments to the whole, based above all on the issue of competences, which are also limited by this bill, and that seems to be being resolved. You say they respect the autonomous communities a lot, but I don't think it's the best day to say those things. You respect the autonomous communities when you do what you want them to do. [[Applauds]] When the autonomous communities, within their competences, lower taxes, then put a law above them. And this is similar. Another thing is that I have convinced some people out there to tell them that they are going to fix it in the Commission. You wanted to control the freedom of autonomous communities to manage their health programs, and that bothers you. I can tell you that since you manage health in my community, in this case the Navarra Foral Community, waiting lists have increased by almost 70% and private insurance is being shot. So, look who's doing their job to privatize. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u60	Thank you. For the Euskal Group Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good morning. Having heard this apologia of the United States-type health models and how equity is guaranteed, and so on, all you need to do is go to the literature and really see how equity is in those countries that serve you as a reference of a liberal model to organize health. But I'm going to get serious and work really hard to move forward on issues that are necessary. It is true that since 1986, that is, since the last thirty years, when the door was opened to privatization, there have been years of progressive privatization in many respects and have caused a great deterioration in the state's health systems. That is why we agree that this legal framework needs to be changed and that we need to pay particular attention to a change that has to be a model change for many years, because something that has deteriorated little by little for so many years is going to cost it a turnaround. In this regard, they can count on our cooperation in all that is to contribute to equity and the improvement of the health of the citizenry. This bill brings important elements, but in its current wording some issues that are the exclusive competence of our Basque or Navarra Autonomous Communities come into play, and we therefore believe that a commitment to safeguard these competences is essential. We can only initiate and approve the drafting of this law if there is such a commitment, as you have said. We therefore welcome that the ministry takes a step in this direction. Our starting point is the universality of health, which is a human right that goes beyond improving all the social determinants that cause it. Within these particular social interests, the health system is only a small part, but it can contribute to correcting negative impacts, reducing the vulnerability that is occurring, which is greater in certain social groups, and reducing the consequences of illness and disability on people's lives, and which can play an important role in empowering people. We therefore believe that the health system, if not the fundamental determinant, is an important determinant that needs to be addressed in the coming years. Because, what is the current reality? The current reality is the deterioration that has occurred in the last twenty-six or thirty years in the attention, in the deadlines. The dismantling and deterioration, which have been planned on many occasions, have resulted in insufficient resources of their own to respond to services and services, which in turn is the clause or apology that allows for privatization. We will have to take care of that in the development of this law. Another important issue is the recruitment of medical and health personnel and a serious analysis of the increase in the relevance and use of resources by the private health system. Let us not forget that there is a feedback between private insurance and concerts with private companies. That is where we are right now, especially in specialized medicine, which is making 40% of the attention - I am talking about averages - and in which there is a very clear socio-economic gradient, since the highest classes are making 70 or 80% improvements in the attention with this feedback system between concerts with private companies and private insurance. Our country, Euskal Herria, is not alien to this situation, nor is the Autonomous Community of Navarre. They have been leading communities, and yet they also suffer the situation in this regard, because there is state legislation that is favoring such privatization. That is why we believe that this change is important, and we have the opportunity to move forward in accordance with the competition framework. What lines of improvement are we going to propose in this amendment? One of the improvements will be the regulation of the aspects that currently make it possible to circumvent the object of the law under that supposed exceptional character. The 1986 law already mentioned that privatization would be an exceptional thing, and yet there are many entries, many elements that would make it possible to circumvent that situation. It is therefore important that, from the point of view of state legislation, we can identify or identify those elements that make it possible for the system to have these leaks that at present allow the private enterprise and the large investment funds to be carrying almost EUR 10 billion per year at the cost of public health. In addition to the law, what publication routes are we going to put for those centers and services that are clearly not meeting cost criteria, that are having higher costs, for example, and that are taking care with lower quality criteria. That's where we could start taking care of this situation. And, with regard to minimum portfolios, we will need to expand them in some fundamental respects, bearing in mind that these minimum portfolios are simply minimum elements that the autonomous communities will be able to improve on the basis of the situations, experience and history we have. On the aspect of universal access to the right of health, of course, we will have to...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u62	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u63	We are not going to paralyze this discussion, so thank you very much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u64	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u65	Good morning, everyone. Minister, my group has two criticisms. One is in relation to the forms, for having arrived here with the bill without having spoken to the parliamentary groups. You have now, at the last minute, committed yourself with our parliamentary group to reaching an agreement that corrects the proposals, the deviations and, in our view, the issues that need to be corrected in the text and, otherwise, not to continue with the processing of this bill. Another criticism is on the merits. We agree with the proposed management model, but you cannot impose it on us. It seems to us, of course, that indicators, guidelines and terms should be established for concerts, but those that should be established are the autonomous communities and not the interterritorial council. And, of course, it seems to us that instruments and tools of governance should be established, but the State should not impose them on us from Madrid, because the autonomous communities should also be established in the exercise of their powers. The three issues mentioned are a clear excess of what really corresponds to the exercise of its competence, which is to establish the foundations and coordination of the health system - as the competence says - provided for in article 149.1.16 of the Constitution. On the other hand and also briefly - let me see if it gives me time to go into more detail - we criticise that with the third article you do not guarantee genuine universalization in the access of citizens to the health system. Of course, we welcome some of the aspects that are included in the bill, such as the claim to avoid co-payments and to limit what has sometimes been raised, for example, to urgent health transport. We also welcome the strengthening of universal and free health, an aspect that our parliamentary group defends and our political formation drives where we have responsibilities of government and institutional responsibilities. In fact, I will tell you that many of the forecasts and improvements contained in this bill are being implemented in Euskadi for several years now. As far as the management model you are proposing is concerned, it does not, in fact, affect us either, because in Euskadi direct, more or less, and public, more or less, 95%, but we who have no complex and, of course, we believe that public-private collaboration also benefits us in those cases where it is necessary; we have around 5% of concerts. Therefore, neither in one sense nor in another will affect us, but in this second area you lose the opportunity to guarantee the genuine universalization of citizens' access to the health system. From our point of view and in line with what we have been claiming in this House since 2012, it remains short. We are proposing to revert to the original wording of Law 16/2003 of 28 May, on both issues of cohesion and quality of the health system, because while maintaining its validity there was no problem in the application of these two issues. We propose to remove the need for express recognition by the State authorities of the status of insured person. We consider that this action of the state authority exceeds in a notorious way the constitutional attribution: bases and general coordination of health. We propose to establish a system in which, following the general recognition of the right to health protection and health care established by law, citizens' access to health care benefits provided by the health system is materialized through the individual health card - it is provided for in article 57 of Law 16/2033 - without any preconditions or any need for prior recognition and control. I tell you what the process of this issue has been like. Our group has been defending in this Legislative over the years not only the convenience, but the need to ensure and shield by means of a provision with sufficient normative rank the right of the people, the right of citizenship, the right to health protection and health care as recognized in article 43 of the Constitution. That was our position against the regulatory content imposed by the famous Royal Decree Law 16/2012, which severely restricts the rights of access to health care for citizens. This Royal Decree 16/2012 introduced a new article 3 bis, granting the National Institute of Social Security the recognition and control of the status of insured person, and qualified as it specified that this National Institute of Social Security would recognize and control the status of insured person in order to be able to issue the authorities, the health administrations, the famous individual health card. This is, of course, in our view, an exorbitant extension of the State's competence to establish the bases. But later, on the occasion of the debate on the validation of the Royal Decree Law 7/2018, on universal access to the health system, our group maintained a favourable position, of course, to disconnect the right to public health care from the status of insured or 'beneficiary that had been imposed in 2012. But we considered the content to be insufficient, because the realization of that right to public health care continued to require express recognition by the State authorities, thus failing to achieve, in our view, the genuine universalization of citizens' access to the health system. You should not need express recognition. What's going on? It maintains such a function of recognition and control. Unfortunately, this bill maintains this need for express recognition by the State, by the Ministry of Health, and continues to maintain the position of the autonomous communities, which are the competent administrations, subject to the timely and individualized recognition of the right of the State administration to this action, in all centralist light. We consider this bill to be a contemptible and unquestionable historic opportunity to proclaim definitively and clearly the universality of access to health protection and health care with the health card; that this unique right is realized exclusively through the individual health card. We will fight to achieve the establishment of this system and to ensure that, following the general recognition of the right to health promotion and health care, citizens' access to health-care services provided by the health system is, as we said, materialized in this way. You have made a commitment, Minister, to reach an agreement and we take the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u66	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u67	That will depend on our final position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u68	Thank you. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u69	Thank you, President. Minister, PeCAT tabled an amendment to the full refund of this bill, as it meant, in a nutshell, an attack on... [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] The bill involved decentralization and an invasion of autonomous competences: it did not take into account the historical and unique reality of Catalonia; it did not take into account the diversity of organization of the provision of health services in the public system of the autonomous communities. Catalonia was the autonomous community where this bill was most affected. Catalonia has for more than a century had a network providing public health services with concertation. In Catalonia, the National Health System is the SISCAT, a mixed network of stable and socially committed provision, where concertation represents more than 65% of the network of provision of public health services, with entities of the public sector, the local world, foundations, religious orders, professional self-management entities or mutuals providing health and social health services. It is a very relevant set of entities of various ownership, mainly not for profit - 95 % of the system is managed by non-profit entities - with an unequivocal public service vocation. Concerting is not privatization, because the service remains public if the person who finances it establishes the portfolio of services and acts as a guarantor of the quality and rights of the users. I return to the text of the bill. We are concerned, for its gravity, by article 1 amending Law 14/1986 of 25 April, General of Health, adding a new article 47, the first transitional provision, the single derogating provision and the fifth final provision. The agreement reached with the Government allows us to shield the model of the Catalan health system and respect for health skills. The Autonomy Statute of 1979 gives Catalonia powers in health organization and management. In 1980 the health transfers from the Principality were effective, although they have since suffered under-financing, which we have denounced in countless occasions. The Organic Law 6/2006 of 19 July on Reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia clearly provides in article 162.1 that the Generalitat is responsible for health and public health the exclusive competence on the organization, internal functioning, evaluation, inspection and control of health centres, services and establishments. Minister, I thank you for your talent, your willingness to negotiate and your sensitivity to the Catalan model. This law is very important and we will be very attentive and present during its processing. To conclude, state that... [[ends your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u70	Thank you. Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u71	Thank you, President. Thank you, minister. The real problems of Catalonia have nothing to do with the law they presented; the real problems of Catalonia have to do with professionals and funding. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Today the health sector of Catalonia can be proud, because its defense of a model that transcends the false, simplistic, populist and complex debate of the public and the private has made the law that threatened this singular and successful model never see the light. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] No changes have been agreed. Now begins a process that will only be translated into a law if there is agreement with Catalonia; if there is no agreement, there is no law. I invite you all to do a little pedagogy, because the populist discourse of some puts at risk the Catalan system and model, which is historical, recognized, respected and admired. We have been about to pay with this model of success for a debate that you have here in Madrid, where it is voraciously privatized. They say that in Catalonia you can access this network of excellence with the health card. They say that anyone coming from outside Catalonia can access this network of healthcare excellence in Catalonia. They say that Catalan civil society is the one that has made it possible for this model to exist, it is the one that has built this unique and successful model. They report that the Catalonian health system is managed by 95 % by non-profit entities and public-owned entities. They say it's not privatization to make a deal. I'm finishing up. Article 162.1 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] I also say this in Spanish, for those who do not understand Catalan: It is the responsibility of the Generalitat of Catalonia in the field of health and public health to have exclusive competence. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] This barbarity of law has been curbed by Catalans. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u72	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u73	Thank you, President. Minister, thank you very much. Today, under the title of measures to guarantee the equity, universality and cohesion of the National Health System, we are debating not any sectoral law, not a concrete measure, but the great law, the law that precisely establishes the strategic lines of the same health system. Therefore, we are debating here the great law on the health system. We can share some of the approaches of this bill, such as strengthening public health and, in the same sense, the need to consolidate the model of public management. We fully share that issue. It is a model that for our group is the only one - the only one, I say - that can guarantee quality health care to all citizens. I repeat again: to all citizens, even those who do not have the capacity to bear the cost of private health care. All citizens. In fact, public services are our capital. We have this very clearly and we always call for economic and social vulnerability not to be grounds for exclusion in health care. These are the precepts on which we base our action. This is the basis of our health system: its universal character. For us, equity and cohesion are not just territorial, but social equity and cohesion are just about ensuring quality care - I repeat again - for the whole world. In Catalonia, we have for more than forty years had a public management health model which was born out of a broad consensus, as has been said here, between civil society, the health sector and the administrations themselves, and which we obviously consider today to be a model of success. With the creation of the Servivei Català de la Salut in 1991-today the CatSalut is said to have created the necessary public management tool to order, plan and manage the Catalán health system. For us it is the public management tool that encompasses all the health resources existing in Catalonia, both of public and private ownership. Therefore, in Catalonia we start from a mixed health system, where the percentage is really very equal. CatSalut is precisely a model that allows planning, direction and funding on the basis of an objective-fulfilment system. This, I think, is fundamental. Health is managed - all the centers and services - based on the fulfilment of objectives, which are precisely those that mark the National Health System in Catalonia. It is clear that with parties of the Catalan right we do not share many approaches; for example, whether one should have greater or lesser public control over mixed management figures such as consortia. But that is an issue of internal debate for us and which, in any case, must seek its consensus within the framework of the Catalonian Parliament, should never come by external imposition. This is the most important thing for us. The competencies of the Government should be limited to whether or not the proposal was being implemented and whether or not the strategic lines established by the Government itself in the area of health were being implemented. We understand that this is one of the main competences, but this law not only proposes these broad strategic lines, but in some cases it fails to overregulatory, which for us implies a clear interference in the autonomous competences in health, as well as in the organizational powers of the health centres and services of the autonomous communities. The basic state regulations can and must condition, created, the exercise of autonomous competences in order to achieve a process of universalization, of equity, even of cohesion of the system, but in no case can it eliminate the principle of autonomy. In fact, there are two points; I will simply mention two points. Article 47(3) provides that the provision of management of health and social health services shall preferably be carried out by means of the formula of direct public management and that the exceptional use of other formulas shall comply with a number of requirements. The question is: do you not think that the management model should define autonomous communities on the basis of their competences, instead of defining what it should be like here? I think it's something important to keep in mind. In Catalonia the figure of the health consortium, which is precisely one of the topics that brings controversy, is even part of the Generalitat Administration itself. In fact, it is a mixed model of private public management where objectives are very directly marked by a public service delivery strategy. This is perhaps one of the differences that is difficult to understand and perhaps one of the singularities of the Catalan model. And I didn't want to end without emphasising an aspect that always surprises us, continuously. In no case, before proposals for reforms such as those presented and which are even intended to affect the model of management of the health systems of the Autonomous Communities, is a reference to funding included. In our group we are tired, but tired, of constantly demanding adequate funding precisely so that the autonomous communities can guarantee quality services and offer a robust public health system. Without proper public funding, the provision of quality health services is completely unworkable. We need resources or we cannot really guarantee a robust health system. In conclusion, Madam Minister, and I am also addressing your colleagues in Podemos, what cannot claim this law - I sincerely say - is to try to influence the current model of health management of an autonomous community, the Community of Madrid, with a minimum law that ends up affecting the whole of autonomous communities, which in most cases are autonomous communities that aim to meet the objectives set by the government. Don't you realize that it's still a very Jacobin approach? I'm telling you to think about it. I'm on my way. If this law follows its course, we will be very vigilant in two aspects that are fundamental to us. One is respect for the competition framework and the other is precisely progress in the area of universal access to the health system. These are two aspects that are very important to us: the competences and universality of public health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u74	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u75	Good morning. Our General Health Act 1986 considers health to be a right of individuals; a right that, according to that law, must be addressed through a public health service, our National Health System, based on quality, equity and universality, and financed by taxes, i.e. financed by all those who pay taxes. But the People's Party, Mr Aznar's government, with Mr Feijoo at that time in the Insalud, is coming, and they are proposing a new law. So much money moves health that they say: This is a source of business and we cannot lose it. They then propose a law, 15/97, which basically says that a publicly funded public hospital can be run by a private company and that private company that takes the benefits that it can. The state gives him the money, the communities give him the money and they manage as they want without any kind of control. What does the private company do? Well, he wants to make money. How do you make money? The following way. It hires few healthcare professionals, because what saves me in contracts I take from profits; it buys cheap technology, because what saves me in technology I take from profits; it lacks quality control of any kind; it camouflages waiting lists as it pleases because they are not controlled, and it doesn't worry if it doesn't make a lot of money because, in the end, the office will come in turn and rescue me. This is what happened at the hospital of Alzira, in Valencia, at the stage of privatization. [[Applauds]] This is what happened. That's how the private company works. Within four years of managing the hospital in Alzira, Ribera Salud is declared bankrupt and rescued by the council. It cost us almost 60 million euros, of which 25 million euros were paid for loss of profits, which was not in the contract, but it seemed good to the People's Party council to give up 25 million euros - our money - because the company had lost profits, gentlemen. But what's fat is that when they pull out a new contest, who's being given the new management of Alzira's hospital? The same company they had rescued with public money. [[Applauds.- Mrs. Rodriguez Herrer makes negative signs.]] That's right, this time they almost triple the funding. Yes, Elvira, it was. They almost triple the funding. That's how private management works. This is, Mr. Díaz, destroying a public service. What happens to Mr. Díaz of Citizens is that he doesn't understand what a public service is. It's obvious that's what it is. What's going on in Madrid? Mrs. Ayuso says, "We're going to damage health because we're going to do business. I close the emergencies of health centres - he goes on - that the emergencies go to public hospitals, the emergencies collapse, and I say: What a bad thing public health works; let's privatize! But since it is a patriot, it does not privatize Spanish companies, no, no, it privatizes Fresenius, a German oligopoly that currently controls the Jiménez Díaz Foundation, the Elena Infanta Hospital, the Rey Juan Carlos Hospital and the Villalba Hospital; public money to benefit private companies that do not even declare in Spain. Long live Spain, live patriotism. This is Mrs. Ayuso's patriotism. [[Applauds]] The private management of a public service, Mr Díaz, is a fraud, and I say it in every word. But he doesn't understand what a fraud is or what a public service is. It is clear that this is the case. [[The lady]] The PSOE brings here a law of equity that says it repeals this law of Mr Aznar. We, in the commitments of government, in the pacts of government with the Socialist Party signed that this law had to be revised; to be revised in the sense of repealing, not changing the letter of position. She brings here a law which says that she repeals Law 15/1997, but Mrs. Darias knows perfectly well that she does not repeal it, maintains it. He says he's a member of the National Health System, but he allows private management. It says that it generates equity in the National Health System, but it allows the mutuals of officials in which - to amaze - public officials, paid with public money, it turns out that they are allowed and given to choose to go to private, because they must consider the minister or the ministry that the public is not good, so 'as privilege' - in quotes - to go to private. They don't seem to know the inefficiency of the private. And he says it's universal, but he has restrictions on access, and that goes against justice and public health. The arguments they have put forward here for the amendments as a whole I am not going to comment on them, because, apart from false ones, they imply an absolute lack of knowledge of the functioning of a public system. What will they know, neither VOX nor Citizens, about a public system or a public service! It's impossible. We do not want this law, but we really need to repeal Law 15/1997 and we need to negotiate our amendments. We want to negotiate. We want our amendments to be in that law and we want to negotiate with you, and that is what I am asking from here, Mrs Darias. We want to negotiate, we have to solve this. Our amendments are going to defend direct management; of course we are going to review and control the concerts, it would be missing more, we are defending a public service. We are defending quality, security; we are not defending the businesses that you seem to be defending so much, and of course you defend them well. The arguments are false, but there you go defending that topic. We want the minister to discuss this with us and reach agreement. We're willing to settle. We all have to save Spanish health. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Medel. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Pastor Julián.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the health system is a basic part of the welfare state; the right to health care is a determining factor in the cohesion of our society and the National Health System is a fundamental part of solidarity among citizens. These same words I spoke in this rostrum almost twenty years ago defending the law of cohesion and quality, which defends these principles which I would like them to remain alive for all today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Constitution and its development, the General Health Law and the law of cohesion and quality are the laws that give rights to the Spaniards. Therefore, bringing here today what you bring fills me with shame. With this dialogue of besugos you want us to swallow what you want. Look, the important thing would be to have a consensus on health, as we did almost 20 years ago when 350 deputies voted a law. Unfortunately, today we cannot say the same. Last night there were four amendments; today there are two. I'd like to know what the minister promised tyrios and trojans. Madam spokesman for Podemos, you will have it quite complicated, because you have promised you one thing and the Lords of PeCAT and Junts the opposite. The speech and the debate will be entertained. Ladies and gentlemen, what Spanish health needs is above all and above all its defence, but its defence not from sectarianism. We defend the principles of our legal system, as, by the way, you all defended it twenty years ago, as I say to you. We have to guarantee the Spanish a public and universal health system, and this law, of course, does not offer solutions. It does not offer solutions to the real problems of Spanish health, as was evident in the Commission for Reconstruction. The government, Minister, says that it makes health universal, but how can they have so much face with an economic memory of 1.7 million euros? Ladies and gentlemen, are you going to give him universality with 1.7 million? [[Applauds]] It is inconsistent with the stability plan they send to Brussels Where are the resources they speak of? And what is your cohesion, Minister? Or their equity? Are you perhaps concerned about the health inequalities that exist at the moment in Spain? And the top is the co-governance, who has seen them and who sees them. On the one hand, co-governance and, on the other hand, today we are debating your text here, not another text that some of you are talking about with your promises. You have made a paper, Minister, because Article 149 of the Constitution recognizes the competence of the autonomous communities to organize and manage. It is a project, Your Honor, which attempts to censor the collaboration of the private sector, which is contained in the General Health Law - in its article 90 -, in Law 15/1997, in the Cohesion Law and which you Socialists voted on. Socialists voted for this. In addition, there have been socialist governments and they have not touched it in the history of the National Health System. [[Applauds]] It must be that this is another socialism; now I understand it. What happens to you is that you need votes; you need the votes of Podemos and even of the lords of Bildu. They have a double measuring rod. It is necessary to have courage to come here to talk about charging the concerts - with pardon for the expression - when there are communities governed by the Socialist Party with concerts to port and starboard; in some communities waiting lists are made exclusively by the private sector. And what a face they have talking about Valencia. What a tough face they have when they've taken Valencia to the biggest waiting lists. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, they are creating a debate that is overtaken; we had overtaken it in this country. We defend public and universal health, and the private sector, as reflected in its General Health Act, is in collaboration with the public sector; that is. You want a trap debate here, but you're not going to get it. This law, Minister - and now I look at you - is not ambitious; it is not ambitious in transparency or technology assessment. They don't talk about what we really need to talk about, and I'm surprised, minister; I'm surprised because it was a good opportunity to solve the problems that the system has, which even the survey of its CIS says that health is the second problem that the Spanish have. Or what The Lancet magazine tells you. Every time he says "The Lancet" he's gonna get a rash. Minister, they do not address human resources problems or primary care problems. What a way to solve things by making it possible for there to be no collaboration with the private sector, with waiting lists of more than 700,000 people. He should be ashamed that at this time there are more than 500 days for people to access medicines. And they look the other way. Madam Minister, the cohesion law must be updated, of course, but in the right direction, with the reforms to be made, and this is not achieved either in substance or in form. It does not address the problems we have, nor the reorientation of the system, nor of the professionals. It does not address the funding model; nor does health have to have the necessary leadership and expertise to advance the health system. We certainly do not need proposals that are absolutely sectarian. Minister, who wins with this law? Do patients win? Do the pros win? Is sustainability improved? Is access to patients improved? Are tools put in place to improve quality? The straight answer is no, no, and no. [[Applauds]] My group has been and will always be on the side of those of us who have worked for years to improve the National Health System without ideological a prioriism and populist sophasia. Madam Minister, improving the health of citizens is the most important political task we all have. Let us return to the path of consensus that we reached in 2003; by the way, consensus that has lasted, as the PNV spokesman said, almost twenty years. The main objective - and I finish now, Madam President - that we must all propose ourselves, do you know what it is? Improve the health outcomes of our citizens. The rest, however important it may seem, is secondary, because improving their health, preventing and controlling their diseases, providing them with the best health care and ensuring equity through the individual solidarity of our taxes is the nuclear principle of the National Public and Universal Health System that I have always defended, which I defend and will defend on behalf of my parliamentary group, the People's Parliamentary Group, and the management that the people's governments, who make the autonomous communities, have made. Go back to the law of cohesion and quality. And today what I do to you is an amendment to the management that you have done all this time; four ministers and today you bring us a law, after these years, that is sectarian. By the way, it's gonna be complicated, minister, because you did what looks amazing last night.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u78	Mrs. Pastor, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u79	It's over now. And the amazing thing you know what it is? Try to please everyone who thinks differently. Get ready, minister, we're waiting for a few entertaining months. Thank you so much. I don't laugh so much, but I do defend the health of our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pastor. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u81	Good morning. Thank you, President. Minister, welcome to Congress of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the first steps of the Government of Pedro Sánchez was to restore universality to the public health system, a right that had been broken by a Government of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] With the law of equity, universality and cohesion we guarantee this right, because this law extends the rights of citizens to health care, because this law consolidates and strengthens our National Health System and because this law strengthens universality. This law will prevent new co-sponsorships and protect the most vulnerable people, because this is about people and almost no political group has been talking about people. It is a law that allows patients to participate and that, for example, sets the maximum amounts of the orthoprosthetic benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, this law guarantees the right to health protection to persons not registered or authorized as residents of Spain. We defend this law against the amendments to the whole, which have been tabled by the right-wing citizens, VOX and PP. Ladies and gentlemen, what it seems is that they distil rejection of public management of health services. Speaking of the cohesion law, Mrs Pastor, they put in that law tools that they never used, because the laws, in addition to passing them, must be applied, Mrs Pastor. The law complies with the agreements of the Reconstruction Commission, and I regret to tell you that in the People's Party, from the zero minute of this legislature, they refused to work, refused to agree and refused to consent. [[Applauds]] And, Mr Citizens' Spokesman, you have had to resort to a totum revolutionum that mixes labor demands, which I do not know if you know is the status of health workers, and I also say this to Mrs Pastor; you have mixed the pandemic, with distortions of concepts that do not correspond either to the object or to the content of this law. But you have chosen to shoot with cannon saves instead of working on a law that is necessary and convenient for our health system. In addition, haven't you learned that since 2019 there has been an interoperable e-prescription in Spain? Study, get to work for the people of this country. [[Applauds]] Go to any pharmacy-any partner in your political group - and you can check it out. Mr Steegmann, speaking of health, we too welcome Mrs Olona's early recovery. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as in everything in life, it is important to be clear where we are coming from and where we want to go, and the Socialists know it, we know very well where we are coming from and what our objectives are, also in health, because Spain has a government chaired by Pedro Sánchez that is strengthening public health, which has been thinned and weakened during the last seven years of the governments of the People's Party, and we have seen it with all its cruelty during this pandemic. Socialists know the way forward with important laws that guarantee public health policies promoted by socialist governments, such as the General Health Law, such as the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines and Health Products or the General Law on Public Health. In 2012 the People's Party, with the Royal Decree Law 16/2012, broke the universality in access to public health. This rule involved the implementation of co-payments and the failure of universality, thus leaving out universal access to numerous groups of citizens, including the unprotected right to health care for foreigners who do not have the right to health care. The exclusion of people from the health system is an attack on human rights and also puts public health at risk by preventing disease control. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government led by Pedro Sánchez is committed to the permanent improvement of the National Health System, but while the right wing are doing what? Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, Mrs. Pastor, who are you with? Are they extending rights or cutting them? Do you want to eliminate the copago or don't you want to suppress it? To protect the most vulnerable or not? I do not need to be answered because I already say the answer, because the answer is given every time they govern, reflecting in the BOE the cuts, the co-payments, the restriction of rights and the exclusion of people from the health system. [[Applauds]] Did you, Mrs. Pastor, support Royal Decree 16/2012 or not? Why are they opposed to all the measures of this Government that support citizens? You make people's lives worse, but this government is not going to leave anyone behind, because it costs a lot to win rights and you get lost very quickly when you depend on the right. It was a socialist government, as I said at first, that with the Royal Decree Law 7/2018 began the recovery to universal access. This is a government that eliminates co-payments so that vulnerable people and pensioners do not have to stop using their medicines - necessary for their health because they are prescribed by their doctor - for a strictly economic reason. And now, after the worst pandemic of the last century, it is up to us to continue to advance and recover and consolidate the public health that the People's Party with wrong cut-off policies had brought to the limit of its resistance. And this will be possible thanks to this law that we advocate to consolidate the equity, universality and cohesion of the National Health System; this law establishes new guarantees to prevent the occurrence of new co-payments and broadens the rights of the entire population to health care. We ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to allow this law to be dealt with in Parliament. The Socialists, my group, recognize the different sensitivities and we will work for the best text seeking maximum agreement, because the Socialists know where we come from and where we are going. We have many years of management in the Government of Spain and in autonomous governments, and we, in accordance with the principles that inspire our socialist ideology, will continue to promote measures for a more just, universal, equitable and cohesive health, and always with maximum respect for the competitive framework. You right-wingers always criticize different sensibilities, because you either don't know or don't want to agree. They prove it every day. We are people who understand and remember. And you know how we do it? Seeking points of encounter from the discrepancy, because it unites us all the common commitment to improve the life of citizenship, because consensus is a strength, because agreement is a strength and because agreement is what the citizenship of all of us expects. And I end with a sentence from the minister: it is worth being with the weakest, with the most vulnerable, because the raison d'être of politics, at least for my parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is improving people's lives. I want to thank the groups that are going to support the processing of this law and I want to express my gratitude to the Minister of Health, Carolina Darias, for her tireless work in public health. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs Prieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u83	We turn to the next item on the agenda: full debate on the draft Organic Law of the University System. The Minister of Universities has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u84	President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking for the first time in this House to present and defend the draft Organic Law of the University System, which was approved by the Council of Ministers at second reading, today precisely three months ago. I do so in defence of a text which I believe, not only as a minister but also as a long-term university, which fully meets the needs of a system which, since the adoption of the LRU in 1983 or the LOU in 2001, has grown and developed not only quantitatively, but also qualitatively and which must now meet the demand for Europeanisation and internationalisation with new capacities and instruments. At a time like the present, of change of era, in which knowledge and talent form an indissoluble part of the new models of growth and development, we need a university that is commensurate with the challenges posed, accessible to all citizens, regardless of their age, economic conditions or place of residence; a university at the service of society in which it is inserted, sufficiently funded, that defends knowledge as a common good open and accessible to all; a university that puts quality teaching at the same level as research and knowledge transfer, ensuring students the appropriate level of education and accompanying them in their full incorporation into society and workplaces... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u85	Excuse me, Minister, for interrupting you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. And if you want to have conversations, get out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u86	Thank you. A university where the working conditions - I said - and the stability of teachers, administrative staff and services are worthy and allow the necessary renewal before the obligatory generational relief to which we are engaged in very short time; a university fully articulated with the European university fabric, sharing titles, promoting mobility and research together. I would therefore like to defend, on behalf of the Government, the full opportunity and need to adopt this bill, with the changes, of course, that Parliament has, in order to complete the structural reforms already proposed in education by LOMLOU or, in the field of research, the recently adopted law on science. As I said, after almost 40 years since the LRU was adopted or more than 20 years since the adoption of the LOU, the Government is now committed to promoting a new law that will enable universities to meet the new needs that arise today. He said many years ago Michel Crozier that society is not changed by decree and many will remember to accommodate the right to reality. I say this because in these twenty-one years since the approval of the LOU the universities have changed enormously; they have done so through mechanisms in fact and I think they have changed for good. We have a powerful university system, which provides essential services to our society, but the current law does not accompany or facilitate this change, closing more doors than those that allow us to open. We need a new law that collects and normalizes the changes that, as I said, have already been made in fact and that project towards the future the university system that we have. The transformations in these twenty years are enormous and the challenges they pose are also enormous, not only in such significant issues as the energy crisis, raw materials, pandemics, climate change or demographic transition, but also and more specifically in everything more strictly university, such as the generation of knowledge, its transmission and implementation, knowledge in network, artificial intelligence, open science, citizen science and the demand for inter- and transdisciplinary approaches. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the units today represent 70% of scientific production and we must ensure that they can continue to contribute to the needs of the country, not only the public universities, but also the private universities, which we have incorporated precisely in the article devoted to the subject in an equally broad way. Research that maintains its quality standards and strengthens its capacity to transfer, so that universities, so to speak, remain universities. We therefore believe that this draft organic law provides the basis for further progress towards a university system that effectively contributes to the improvements that the country needs, combating inequalities and ensuring the agile and democratic functioning of universities and their essential quality. Twenty years ago, at the time of approval of the LOU, the cycle of setting up public universities had just been closed after the start of the last public universities that started, such as the Polytechnic University of Cartagena or the Pablo Olavide University of Seville, both just before the approval of the LOU. As that law said in its explanatory statement, it had culminated in that 200 - some will remember - the transfer to all autonomous communities of university competences, overcoming the differences that existed before between communities of 143 and 151, which it had previously governed. The LOU endorsed the defence of university autonomy enshrined in the Constitution and understood - I quote textually - that the competitive role of the autonomous communities would require more flexibility and acceptance of differentiated strategies of the different universities in a vertebral scenario. And in a very concise way, because it could not be otherwise at that time, reference was made to the prospect of a European Higher Education Area. Today, twenty years later, the ninety universities that currently have approved their activity, thirty more than those that existed in 2001, whether public or private, with or without profit, face-to-face or remote, are distributed on 360 campuses of two hundred cities and localities in the country and offer thousands of titles to 1,700,000 students, with 130,000 teachers and 65,000 people in administration and services. They are universities with very different profiles, serving audiences and social needs also clearly differentiated and fully integrated into a European policy of higher education, which has ceased to be a foreign policy to be an indissoluble part of our modus operandi. Let me emphasize a little more the subjects incorporated in this bill, starting precisely with the aspects of internationalization of the university system, to which for the first time in such a law a specific chapter is devoted. I do not believe that it is necessary to highlight not only the importance, but also the peremptivity with which this subject has been contemplated in the elaboration of the norm, not only with regard to the consolidation of the European Higher Education Area, which I have already mentioned and which is simply crucial, of internal policy, but also with regard to other areas which are very relevant to us, such as the Ibero-American Higher Education Knowledge Area. In order to achieve this objective, the project envisages the development, as it could not otherwise be, by the Government, and in collaboration with the autonomous communities, of a strategy for the internationalization of the system. In this regard, I would like to share with you a very good news that I cannot fail to stress, and that is that we already have twenty-seven Spanish universities fully integrated into the networks that form the European Union's commitment to building a system of so-called European universities, with their own and dynamic mobility titles that are every day passing more intense, in which we are enthusiastically involved. As it could not otherwise be, the international mobility of PDI and PAS students is also a priority in this bill, and it is also a priority to attract talent, as we continue to be asked by entities, companies and administrations. The Organic Law of the University System, if approved, will speed up the study visas, reviewing their current limitations, linking their duration to the studies they are studying, and it is proposed that at the end of university studies of degree, master's or postgraduate degree one or two years may be chosen to practice or work in the country. As many autonomous communities are already doing, LOSU also reinforces the attraction of quality national and international teachers in line with the science law already in force. Ladies and gentlemen, another essential objective of the project is for universities to be more connected with society, its problems, the changes and needs of its environment and to promote the development of the territories in which they are inserted, effectively contributing to the search for solutions to important social challenges such as inequality, training deficits, the climate crisis or depopulation. We have many examples of this - I have had the opportunity to see in these months that I have been serving as a minister and in the more than twenty-five visits that I have made directly to universities - on our own network of universities, from the Ponferrada campus of the University of León to the Teruel campus of the University of Zaragoza, the presence of UNED in many enclaves of Spanish geography or, in another dimension, the strategic and determining weight of historical universities, such as Granada or Salamanca in their enclaves. We could continue to mention many examples of this type that indicate the significance, the importance of the presence of universities in the enclaves where they are located, but we also need a much greater direct presence of universities in the PERTE and in the dynamics of innovation and transformation that European funds have launched. In this line of greater proximity to the environment and its needs, the project reinforces or incorporates mechanisms that I would like to highlight, such as lifelong learning, open science or the promotion of co-official languages, and also incorporates citizen science as a tool for broad collaboration between scientists and social actors. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already passed that stage in which by studying a few years at university one could exercise his whole life the profession for which he had studied without too many shocks. Since the European Union Social Summit in Porto Last year we know of the European commitment to ensure that 60% of European citizens have had training experiences in the previous months by 2030, seeking, as was said at the Porto Social Summit to which I am referring, a constant updating of knowledge and the adequacy of the whole population, regardless of their age. Microcredits, short courses, which have already been launched in many universities, are the European response to the search for a university for all ages - I stress it, a university for all ages - so that no one will be left behind. In short, knowledge is indeed a common good. We must be aware that, as long as the retraining needs of the working population continue to grow, the classical university population, from eighteen to twenty-four years, will be significantly reduced in the next twenty-five years, as indicated in the report Spain 2050. This will mean that we have two hundred thousand less university students than the current ones when, instead, our great installed capacity, to which I have previously mentioned, of all the universities of the system allows us now to respond to the requirements of training for everyone throughout life and to encourage the arrival of foreign students who take advantage of the quality of our system and the opportunities offered by our country. Obviously, addressing this set of challenges that the project incorporates means ensuring that public universities are financially sufficient. It is therefore another central axis of the project that all public universities have the necessary funding to carry out the functions of providing and guaranteeing the public service of the higher education entrusted to them. This means reversing the sharp and prolonged disinvestment, as a result of the reduction in public spending on higher education, which in the period 2008-2020 decreased by 20% in real terms. I repeat, it decreased by 20% in real terms. The project addresses this issue within the framework of the LOMLOU plan adopted in December 2020. This law envisaged, as you will recall, an increase of at least 5% of GDP for the entire education system, with the aim of reaching within the next ten years, seeking a progressive alignment of our education system with the average of the countries of the European Union. Since the percentage allocated to higher education is 20% of total expenditure on education, the LOSU sets a commitment of at least 1% of GDP devoted to universities, thus also following the steps of the science law, which set in its wording 1.25 % of GDP at the target to be achieved in the coming years. This commitment of the State, of course, must be implemented in a plan of increase agreed between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities in a transparent and shared manner, working in common with this objective within the framework of the General Conference of University Policy, where the law provides for a commission to be set up for this purpose. In this way, the draft organic law lays the foundations for a model that, taking into account the uniqueness of competences in the university sphere, fully guarantees the resources necessary to promote the transformation of the system that the law projects. Nor can we fail to mention the important change that the draft organic law establishes in relation to the student and its relevance in the system. Without students, college doesn't make sense. It is therefore key to ensure equal opportunities in access and permanence in university education, regardless of the economic capacity of families, as we are doing with the increase in scholarships or with the reduction of fees. Thus, the draft Organic Law recognizes the student's subjective right to access scholarships and study grants, and also integrates criteria and standards to ensure inclusive university education for all, including a cross-cutting gender approach, recognition of diversity and universal accessibility. To this end, it sets out concrete measures aimed at developing anti-discrimination policies, combating all forms of harassment and advancing the adaptation of educational institutions, programmes and methods for persons with disabilities. The LOSU also includes a number of measures to enable the student to take part in university activity. It therefore provides not only for a set of strictly academic rights, but also for more extensive spaces and mechanisms for their active and meaningful participation in university policies. In short, the project bets on students for a rights approach and a comprehensive training perspective that includes their participation in the management of services related to university life, mentoring activities, guidance services for their social and work insertion, their psychopedagogical orientation and something as important as we have seen in recent years, such as the care of their mental and emotional health. With regard to the teaching function, the aim is to enrich the training of university teachers with initial training in teaching methodologies and continuous training to ensure the updating of their skills. With regard to the academic career, the model proposed by the LOSU assures teachers of the full validity of the principles of equality, merit and capacity enshrined in the Spanish Constitution, as well as a predictable and stable professional itinerary. It reduces the access of the PDI, the teaching and research staff, to positions of permanence in the university, which now spans twenty years, reducing it to a period of ten years, thus allowing a rejuvenation of the whole of the PDI so necessary for the future of the university, today, as you all know, remarkably aged. In addition, the LOU introduces the necessary measures to reverse situations of job insecurity, setting the time limit at 8%, in line with what is established at European level as a quality standard for the public education sector. In turn, this bill guarantees equal rights and academic duties to all teaching and research staff, in comparable conditions on the official and labour tracks, and ensures fairness and transparency in access, consolidation and promotion processes. In addition, the project envisages specific measures to correct the wage gap between women and men; promote co-responsibility in care; and ensure the effective exercise of the rights to reconcile the working and family life of university staff. Similarly, the standard includes measures to promote the mobility of faculty between universities and research centres as a fundamental part of their academic activity and also recognizes this mobility for technical personnel in management and administration of services, it is stated that the project is re-evaluated by the recognition of the horizontal professional career and its continuous training. I'm finishing up. As we have consistently recalled, the quality of the system constitutes a fundamental axis of the project, which therefore reserves a specific title to this issue, referring to levels of quality that are inconsistent with internationally recognised standards and, in particular, with the criteria and guidelines established for quality assurance in the European Higher Education Area, in which our system is already fully integrated. Therefore, LOSU proposes a harmonised coordination model in the accreditation and evaluation tasks between ANECA, as an agency ultimately responsible for ensuring the quality of civil servants, and the respective quality agencies of the autonomous communities, always within the scope of their respective competences and, above all, the common criteria defined by the European Register of University Quality Agencies, better known as EQAR. In this way, the foundations are laid for a better and wider articulation between all the agencies and the principles that should govern these procedures, as I have said, in the European framework on evaluation and accreditation. I cannot conclude without emphasising the necessary reformulation of the governance system of our public universities on the line, as the project does, of strengthening their autonomy, so that through their statutes they can develop various issues relating to the governance, organization and management of the institution, including the definition of their centers and structures, but it is mandatory to establish the existence of some basic units of equality, diversity, university advocacy, inspection of services, health and psycho-pedagogical support and professional guidance, thus guaranteeing the rights of the university community as a whole and a peaceful, active and responsible coexistence. In addition, the law stipulates that universities must ensure the democratic functioning and effective representation of the different sectors and the different sensitivities that make up the university community, stressing also the fundamental role of social councils in the strategic orientation of universities through mechanisms of collaboration with the governing bodies and interrelationship with the environment that each university has. In short, the dilemma we have now is either to move forward with the help and work of all the parliamentary groups present in the House in a new regulatory framework for a university that looks to the future, facilitating and driving the necessary adaptation of our teaching and research system, or to remain anchored in the existing regulations, which no longer responds, as I have tried to defend, to the needs of the university system as a whole, which have changed enormously in these twenty years - which I can assure you after forty-seven years of university teaching - and which does not respond - and this is most significant - to the social needs of all kinds facing which the university system can and should be an important ally. The decision is in your hands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. Three amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. In defence of the amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u88	Good morning. Good morning, Minister. Junts per Catalunya we have tabled an amendment to the refund. The introduction of an amendment as a whole should not be interpreted, from our point of view, as something negative, at least not on our part, and that is what we have tried to explain from the outset in this particular case and on other occasions. An amendment to the whole is a parliamentary instrument which can be useful for negotiation, and in this spirit alone it is with which we register it, in order to be able to make it clear that the text before us does not correspond to what we consider to be the university system of the future of a country. Its presentation does not prevent us - and I say it clearly - from not being prepared to negotiate the amendments in the joint text if this amendment as a whole did not succeed. Our will, that of Junts per Catalunya, has been and is from the very beginning constructive and positive, although it is certainly regrettable that sometimes in different forums we are spotted otherwise. What happens is that we're demanding, that's right. We recognize, Minister, that the text has improved with respect to the first versions and, in this regard, we sincerely appreciate the work done by your ministry, but for us it has not improved enough and we believe that there are aspects that are model, philosophy, basic, essence, which cannot be resolved only with amendments to the joint text. That is why we consider the amendment to be precise as a whole, an amendment which also responds to the wish of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, represented by the Conselleria d'Universitats. You have the main reasons in the text that we have recorded, and I will now briefly explain them to you. A plural university model must be created. Many times and in many subjects - you have done so - Europe or other countries of the environment are mentioned to take them as an example, but why not do the same with the university system? Why is it not allowed to create a plural university system? There are many countries that have both research universities and universities of an eminently teaching character, which are more professional. The coexistence of both types of institutions is a value that enriches your university system. From our point of view, it is contradictory not to allow this plural model and, therefore, that strictly teaching universities cannot be set up, but at the same time also the research universities and that, therefore, Spanish students can exercise their international mobility in both types of universities, and that it is formally recognised to them, as is now the case. Could not its existence in Spain benefit international mobility? Internalization that you have pointed out is a priority. Allowing duality does not require, it simply empowers anyone who can choose to do it. Another issue is the autonomy of the autonomous communities. A basic regulation, by definition, must be basic, determine only what is essential, especially if we are in a sphere of competence of the autonomous communities, as is the case with Catalonia. Uniformity is not synonymous with quality, but with little flexibility. For example, the Bologna Declaration leaves it to the choice of who should decide whether the grades should be three or four years, i.e. 180 or 240 credits. Why? Because it was considered that it cannot affect the organization of studies, but rather their quality; quality is the important thing. Why then in Spain should it be determined that the studies can only be of four years? Why ban instead of continuing to allow each university to decide? Three-year degrees, in certain areas, facilitate international mobility. And I repeat, allowing does not force, but facilitates, offers an added possibility. Another example of this impact on the autonomy of the autonomous communities: Why should the Council of Universities check the curricula if they have already been verified by the autonomous communities on the proposal of the universities? This procedure, from our point of view, adds bureaucracy and limits or involves monitoring the activities of the autonomous communities. A third point to be taken into account is that the project also raises, in governance, a standardizing model, which, from our point of view, focuses on university autonomy. For example, a hired teacher is prevented from fully developing his or her professional career by vetoing the position of rector. This will lead us to a discriminatory situation between two people who will be able to have the same research curriculum, the same academic curriculum and with the same excellence, but one can be rector and the other will not be able to take up that position, simply because one will be a civil servant and the other will be employed. Is this equal opportunity? Isn't this discriminatory? We believe that there is no legal reason for this limit, but that this is an indirect way of forcing the faculty to choose the official path. And we came to the model of the professional career of teaching and research staff. Catalonia, as you know, has been developing its own teaching policy with the recruitment and recruitment of high-level teaching staff through the Serra Húnter programme, while stabilizing the teaching staff through calls for its own places. This has been done by establishing independent selection criteria that avoid endogamy. In Catalonia we have a teaching policy of our own which has proved successful. At Catalan universities, civil servants and contract workers are responsible; all of them must demonstrate, with their curricula, their teaching, research and transfer skills. We do not understand why it should be standardized and why one type of legal relationship should be prioritized against another. It is not so complicated to allow the coexistence of both models of relationship, the official and the labor, and that it is each autonomous community that chooses which priority, whether it decides to prioritize one model or another; the current legislation allows it perfectly. [[The Lord]] The essential point, from our point of view - also repeatedly expressed by the Conselleria d'Universitats - is that the link with the university is permanent. The stabilization of the IDP is essential, basic and necessary. In addition, the prioritization of the official way provided for in the bill could affect the shock plan in which the Conselleria d' Universitats is working, with measures to protect talent and promote the generational relief that the minister mentioned, a shock plan designed to hire associate teachers as full-time teachers. Finally, and not least, there is the budget allocation, which he has also spoken about. The project imposes many changes on autonomous communities and universities, but how will they be paid? The changes it proposes could mean for the Generalitat, at least, an investment of 67 million euros. This includes covering the teaching that is discovered by reducing the teacher's dedication to teaching and the obligation to hire teachers associated with more than five years of age and accredited as permanent work teachers indefinitely. I repeat, where will the resources come from to deal with it? Minister, you said that a sufficiently funded university is needed, and we share it 100%, but in the bill we lack a firm economic commitment. We do not think it is the plan that has announced that it should be approved, and we believe that it is necessary to ensure financial sufficiency and economic stability including its costs in the general budgets of the State, in order to transfer them firmly to the autonomous communities and that the Law on General Budgets of the State is complied with, not as it is now, that an approved amendment of 9 billion euros of COVID funds is not complied with. It is very easy to legislate by forcing others to make changes in areas that fall within their competence and to tell them to pay for them. And, Minister, since you mentioned the scholarships - I did not intend to go into this point - when are they actually going to transfer the scholarships to Catalonia? We've asked him several times. For years, other political parties and we, together, have been insisting on this issue, and we are always told that they are technical issues. I would appreciate knowing when these technical issues will be resolved. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we defend the Catalan university model, which is internationally recognised as successful, as it confirms, at international level, the position of Catalan universities in the best positions. It is a model that is recognized for its rigour, the quality of its teaching and the results in research; a model with its own uniqueness and an international European look. If something works, the question is, why should it be changed? In the Conselleria d'Universitats they are aware that the Catalan model is not perfect. It is true that nothing is perfect in this life, and in the council they work to improve it, and they do not consider that the new university system that is presented will contribute precisely to an improvement; on the contrary, they consider that the proposal presented will affect its essence, the essence of the Catalan university model. It goes against the work that has been developed gradually over the years and that has made it an improved model, it is true, but also successful. In short, we believe that the proposal does not provide answers to the current needs of the university system, does not take advantage of opportunities for change, does not comply with the principles that must govern such a reform and does not meet the expectations of the sector directly affected, which is the university community. From our point of view, which, I repeat, is the one followed by the Government of Catalonia through the Conselleria d'Universitats, a change in the university system must serve to lay the foundations of the university of the future, to promote its competitiveness, for its internationalization and for its quality. You mentioned it, but we do not share the way to do it; unfortunately, we do not believe that this is the case with the bill submitted. You have said that current legislation closes more doors than it allows to open; we believe that the bill not only closes doors, but does not allow to keep some that are already open. I therefore ask you to support the amendment as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u89	Thank you. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u90	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you started with a quote from a book by Crozier that says: Society is not changed by decree. I completely agree, but you will completely agree that your Government is constantly trying to change society by decree, and not just society, they are also trying to change reality to accommodate its ideological dogmas. [[applause]] I will explain here an old theory, which is the theory of the suspicion of the philosophers of the 19th, because when I read the joint, I have to suspect that behind the good words are hidden avious intentions, as suspected Freud, Marx or Nietzsche. They literally say that the end of this project is to ensure an autonomous, democratic and participatory university, which constitutes an area of freedom, cultural debate and personal development and at the same time is effective and efficient in decision-making and its management, but it is that we already know what this Government and its allies mean by cultural debate, that it is to prevent with violent squabbles that enter the university any political approach that opposes the official ideology, that pseudo-religion of the progressive left woke and its identity logomaquias that permeate the entire document. [[applause]] Thus, in Article 2 you include democratic memory or the fight against climate change; in Article 18 you speak of sustainable development; in Article 4.3, of gender equality in all university activities; in Article 44.5 you establish gender parity, without regard to merit; in Article 43.2 you speak of the creation of equality and diversity units in all universities; in Article 46.2 you speak of gender equality, etc. As is already the case in its disastrous primary, secondary and high school themes, all its dogmas now become the official doctrine of universities: feminism, gender theories that turn their backs on the biological reality of sexual dimorphism, climate fanaticism, inclusive language, globalism and relentless persecution of those who dare to disagree. That's what you call, in your Orwellian neolingua, the space of freedom. [[Applauds]] Space of freedom, yes, but only for its activists and only for those who impose their ideology on the university. They call cultural debate to attack any ideological antithesis, through the process of encapsulating these arguments with disqualifying adjectives. Thus, everyone who opposes these items of the left woke becomes facha, nazi, homophobo, macho, reactionary; that is, an adjective discourse, not a substantive discourse. In this way, the university, which should be the intellectual training temple of the nation, becomes the factory of semi-alphabet activists who, properly educated and bought with scholarships that do not reward the effort and the approved, because you have declared them a subjective right that is established only on the basis of economic criteria, constitute a force of shock against common sense, against the minimum political rationality necessary for a just social order. [[applause]] It has been a long time since this sluggish, extravagant and anti-national left has used the university to obtain, through deception, coercion, slavery and propaganda, demonizing the adversary, most of all my political party, taking advantage of the need and lack of preparation that young people carry, after a practically secondary education and a poor baccalaureate of only two years. The fundamentalist and anti-national lefts represent the official ideology of the globalist and separatist elites and have no more function in this social order that impoverishes workers, that attacks families, that devilizes life in the popular neighborhoods, consenting to crime, occupation of housing, insecurity and illegal immigration, than to turn school and university into an immense ideological trap, aimed at young people seeing a distorted reality and accepting their ideological fallacy. [[Applauds]] The globalist and anti-Spanish lefts, far from the real problems of the nation, prefer individuals who lack knowledge and are easily manipulated. This is why they replace the history of Spain with a hysterical, false and partial memory; therefore, instead of objective knowledge, they offer students ideological content, identity schemes, collectivization and substitution of rational debate by swallowing into emotional and sensitive content. For you it is a priority to sweeten the students, to remove them from the critical and philosophical knowledge of the real, to become activists who content themselves with the zoological works that the elites - to whom you do the dirty work - offer them in the form of a minimum income, unjust scholarships that do not reward the effort, established as a subjective right and therefore granted to the margin of objective criteria such as the student's academic performance. His interest is rather in having deans and rectors like his ideology that justify the slavery and violent attacks on teachers, lecturers or student associations, such as S'ha Finet!, who do not commune with his creed. We have seen - I acknowledge - an effort to clarify the recruitment system. We hope that this effort will help not to hire a person to teach in Complute for the merit of being the wife of the President of the Government. [[Applauds]] This project also constitutes a new attack on national unity by disconnecting from what has to do with the problem of Spain, its identity and those political programmes aimed at its survival within the framework of a terrible dialectic of States like this to which we are subjected, under the heading of a false and deceptive internationalism of the university, an internationalism contradictory to certain norms included here, such as, for example, the empowerment of vernacular languages, of co-official languages. Are you going to talk to the French and English in Basque or in bable? Of course, this will have to be with the imposition of English, because with these languages we cannot talk about internationalization. But you have not included the approval of the titles either. If the university is to be internationalised, the first thing will be to have a clear rule allowing for the approval of titles. In fact, what is hidden under this internationalism is Spain's submission to the globalist dictates and the loss of sovereignty, and with the excuse of enhancing the co-official languages, they enhance the dismemberment of the nation in taifas, in feuds that limit the mobility of Spanish university students and promote the rupture of a single university district by imposing these languages on students. [[Applauds]] In short, under the disguise of cosmopolitanism and autonomy assumes the real project where only the elites, the new feudal lords, have political rights and the citizens are reduced to their status as subjects. A new order where every form of dissent is persecuted, demonized with its adjective and false speeches; a new order of Orwellian coloration, as in 1984, the book of Orwell. Moreover, this preliminary draft lacks rational guidance to clarify the procurement systems. Nor does it clarify the funding. It is true that there will now be dual funding, because the autonomous communities have to be involved in financing up to 1%, which, by the way, will mean that universities in fiscally favoured autonomous communities will also have more opportunity to devote more funding to the university, which will further deepen the Spanish division, as already happens in high school and high school, where students and teachers in the Basque Country have more investment per year and also earn more money. This deepens much more in the division of the Spaniards and goes against a single university district. In addition to not clarifying this funding, in that deleterious wording we have only made clear what you want to harden the requirements for the establishment of private universities, which are very typical of the socialist government. The same thing that happens with concerted education in the field of middle education is now transferred to the field of private universities, which are the refuge of many people fleeing this indoctrination that you also want to impose at the university. [[Applauds]] In changing the matter, there is also no known economic memory that would allow us to know the credits for a new funding model or for the multi-annual plans that facilitate the new figures that they have created - this psycho-pedagogical accompaniment, vocational guidance -. In economic memory, we don't see how this is going to be financed; if you can, you'll explain it to me later. The proposal to include the Autonomous Communities in the funding will, as I said, widen the gap between universities and does not include the procedure for the approval of qualifications. All these reasons lead us to present an amendment to the whole that is mainly based on this interest that you have - contrary to your first sentence - to regard society as something manipulated and designed according to the government. What they have to do is let society itself create its own ways of life and survival. What they have to do is to facilitate a quality university, that at last there is a Spanish university among the best in the world. For that they have to be the best in university and for that there has to be a single university district and a university aimed at overcoming the very serious economic problems that we are going through, at promoting science, critical thinking, and not what we have today, which is an ideological pastiche, aimed at giving propaganda to a completely irrational ideology, which is opposed not only to common sense, but also to the opinions of the sciences themselves. When you include gender theory while feminism commits a profound contradiction, because both theories are incompatible, and I don't tell you, they call it classic feminists. [[Applauds]] You can't please everyone. The university has to be the factory of knowledge, it has to be oriented to the labor market and not to the promulgation of careers that they encounter with their students in unemployment, but - that is - very well educated to serve you as a ram and political activism. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u91	Thank you. To defend the amendment tabled by your group, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u92	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. A preliminary question. I am going to talk about the text, not its words, because we could generally share them. We're standing there. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a time of haste and a legislature full of outbursts. We are being hit by huge problems that are present every hour of the day at the tip of the information spear, and your ladies and gentlemen will think that a law of universities is not the greatest of our concerns. I'm sure they don't think the same when they remember their children, brothers, friends, doctors, scientists, teachers. It can't be despised, because it's very important. In this debate, I would like to keep in mind the more than 1 700 000 students who are starting their undergraduate, master's and doctoral studies these days; the more than 128 000 teachers and researchers; the 27 000 members of research staff; the 65,000 staff of administration and services; those who are in our territory or abroad, in Erasmus Plus programmes - including students who are at airports because they have problems with accommodation -, in Ibero-American programmes, in research rooms; the staff who fill the puzzle of the enrollment of the new course, and those who are distressed by an announced statute that threatens to return us to university education disconnected from practical training. Ladies and gentlemen, without university there is no science, nor most highly qualified professionals; without a strong and quality university, a country can hardly cope with modernity, change production systems. The university does not exhaust higher education, it is true, but it cannot exist without a university. An ankylated university, away from social challenges and not operating as an engine of progress is a big problem for any country. My appreciation, the recognition of my group to all of them, because sometimes they only listen to unnecessary criticisms, although, believe me, the greatest critics are themselves - if I may say so, we are ourselves - and if they ceased to be, the university would have disappeared as a space of freedom, thought, opinion and creation. We are facing them, therefore, a regulatory change that should be of the utmost consensus, in order to endure over time, offering legal certainty, confidence and stability. Minister, you know as well as I do that a change in the law is not a magic wand that automatically eliminates problems and allows you to reach the university we need as a country. What should certainly not happen is that a legislative change creates more problems than it solves, and today we are favouring you to present the bill, which without full debate could not do, and to tell you not only on behalf of my group, but by giving the voice to many academics and important social sectors, that this is not the law they need, nor the one expected by Spanish universities. [[Applauds]] It was recalled yesterday in the Commission that we should not generate any more frustration in the university. This is a matter of great concern to us, and that is why we have tabled this amendment, in order to reflect on and discuss the opportunity of this project on the basis of the content that the Government has wanted to give it, because it is not a question of legislating and opacity, or of fulfilling a milestone because they have committed it; on the contrary, the objectives must be very clear and the rules to achieve them must be well defined. Europe does not ask for any law; it asks for a transformative norm for the 21st century university, and in the diagnosis for a long time we have agreed a great majority, but coming down from the muses to the theatre is already more complicated, we also know it. From my group, are we opposed to a legal change? No, no, We are also grateful that, since joining the ministry, Mr. Subirats, you have taken us into account to inform us of the process and the progress; what is different is that you have responded to our proposals. Do we think there is a need for legal reform? Yes, for a long time, because in twenty years society has changed a lot. Is this the law we should pass? No, no, Does the university system resist more vavancies after two severe crises? No; we think it can come out very touched and many people in the university confess that they have thrown the towel, and neither the university nor the society in general deserve it. Neither the well-intentioned programmatic statements nor the sound phrases or the words reformed at the time of use constitute a good law, with the precise contents, instruments and mechanisms to enhance the Spanish university system. This project doesn't, let's not be fooled. In Occasions, in some parts of the project, one has the impression that the ministry has also thrown the towel, after incorporating an unintegrated summary of various interests, which try to annoy everyone a little and not too much anyone, but which do not converge in the defense of the general interest and which can end up setting up a law of saving anyone, but not the system. Much has been said, to justify this law, about remedies against precariousness, but we believe it opens up a new era of university precariousness and loss of quality. Even the students throw us out of our ears - well, for the time being the ministry alone - because we have not given the place due to the quality in the text they have presented to us, and we completely agree with them. Minister, we do not want our universities, for which Spanish society has fought so much, to become academies, however prestigious they may be. After carefully studying the text of the project and listening to the different sectors, we understand that it is unnecessary, due to inadequate and harmful, to enhance and modernise our university system; it does not respond to the challenges and needs of the Spanish university; it determines a relevant deregulation in many aspects that allow the existence of a university system, with a serious risk of disintegration from it; it does not respect the state teaching bodies, and it puts at risk the principle of equality in accreditation and the necessary mobility, including that of students, to attend any university in the public system. It therefore does not solve the problems, which need legal and non-regulatory instruments, and raises new ones. As you are well aware, legal reforms have been called for, and I will quote some points that are essential in all these requests. First, reforms that allow governance to be adapted in a more flexible way, to allow the development of each university, enhancing its strengths, its ability to differentiate and compete, but to achieve it is not enough with a chapter in a law that deals with the choice of rector and little more and only with one way. Secondly - it is a common place - the elimination of the asphyxiating bureaucracy that reduces time and efficiency to the work of teachers and researchers themselves, but no solutions are provided, and it is already known that the recipe to follow is defined by autonomy, transparency, accountability and accountability. Thirdly, there is a strong demand for the improvement of the relations of the company and the social fabric in knowledge transfer actions, but this law still does not deal clearly, modernly and decisively with private public collaboration and its impulse, among other instruments, through sponsorship. Nor is it properly connected and coordinated with the law of science, as if they were different worlds. The selection of the best for teachers and researchers is considered essential. Ladies and gentlemen, bringing a Nobel Prize does not solve the deficits of excellence, we must aspire to train and generate many solvent researchers, very outstanding and arrive at the Nobel from the teams themselves. The treatment of internationalisation cannot be limited to gathering some things that are already being done and announcing a strategy, little more, without real approximation to the European proposals and providing the system with instruments to enable it to compete on an equal footing with others. Only those of us who have been in the kitchen know how difficult it is, even with some changes that incorporate the project. And it is also said: And with sufficient and stable funding that allows for better planning, with clear objectives, for which the ministry and the government cannot profile and continue with the technique of I invite and you pay. In addition, you pay with what was planned at another time, with lower rates, with higher costs for inflation and the energy crisis, with the change of PDI model, with the change of PAS model and a long one etc. If less is entered and more is to be spent imperatively the references to the financing of the law are wet paper. With different approaches and proposals in the debate on university reform, there seems to be broad agreement that the current model is exhausted and some unanimity in the solutions. We did not expect, therefore, that a new law would continue to put patches on it. It has to face the model we want to achieve the benefit of everyone in a model of quality and excellence. We stop, in the time remaining, in one of the problems, in the star goal of reform: Eliminate precariousness in the university. No one has defined so far what we call precariousness. They want to eliminate precariousness. Perfect. Let's see. First. Do you want to raise the bad wages of workers and civil servants in all categories? To raise levels, to eliminate differences between autonomous communities, to ensure that there will be stable places for all those who aspire to them or at least for all the staff needed for the university? This isn't in the law. Two. Do you want to eliminate temporality? How? Without taking into account the peculiarities of university work that requires long-term academic training processes? What about the predoctoral science law students who are university students, the assistant doctors, the substitutes, the UNED tutors? Let us explain well to those who do not know the university reality that this project not only does not end part of the precariousness, but increases it, in this photo we see that it will be divided into two with total uncertainty. [[shows a graph]] It makes the associate indefinite when this contract, by law, can only be concluded with a professional with work outside the university. If the partner is a health worker, he will continue to be a fixed-term employee. Why? Why if you're a judge or an engineer in an international construction company, they make you indefinite? Because the opposite is precarious. But do they believe this? If you are a surgeon, there is no problem to bet on temporality and, moreover, we say that it does not compute in the law. But who are we gonna cheat on? And if they are false associates, without external work or with contract simulation we make them indefinite on part-time and with six hundred fifty euros of salary. Is that how we end the precariousness? We drown the system when the problem is faced by some universities in some autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u93	You must finish, please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u94	It ended right away, Mr. President. I do not forget that in the project they order to stabilize them, but also whatever their situation? And what do we do with who has been occupying the right square, working with academic parameters of excellence, accredited? What do we do? They're going out on the street? Because we won't have money for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u95	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u96	And endogamy, for whom? For those who have used the law of universities, teachers, but not for associates? How will universities plan this demographic problem that you have described perfectly?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u97	Your Honor, thank you very much, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u98	I'm on my way. How are they going to do with the ministry's precarious bag? The UNED tutors. They have not even looked after the Ombudsman. That is a bag of terrible precariousness that needs to be attended to and on which they have not said anything. So... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u99	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u100	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with amendments to the whole which have some arguments so solid that it is difficult to rebut them, because this bill has achieved the rejection of the vast majority of the university community. It is true that it has a long journey, but it has not achieved a minimum of consensus in this community, not even with the directors, as they have been making public on numerous occasions. I read the amendment to the whole of the People's Party and I do not cease to agree on the arguments it makes; with the majority, not all of them. It is true that it is very difficult to return to the corrals a law that has been claimed for a long time, because there would still be parliamentary procedure to improve it. That is why the urgency of bringing her to Congress in these conditions is surprising. In general, the law is a continuum of the LOU, it does not change the essentials and, however, it worsens some aspects of the academic career, although in the preamble it describes very laudable intentions, but which are not fulfilled at all. Indeed, there is a declaration of intentions such as the reduction of temporality, internationalization, financing, but the operative part does not respond to them. There are issues, such as that of associate professors, which have such a frontal opposition that it is misunderstood to come so, not by a question of criterion, but by simple logic. Key issues such as the replacement rate problem, the mechanism for devoting 1% of GDP to university and sufficient transitional arrangements for current temporary teachers are not addressed. It solves badly issues such as the equalisation of the way of stabilization, the way of work with the official, the accreditation system for teaching places, the fulfilment of 8% of the maximum time imposed by Europe, the model of governance, etc. Look, these are just a few examples of this bill, but there are many more issues to question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u101	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I want to tell you that there has been a major change with regard to the project before you are. We have not had dialogues because it has not been possible, but we believe that it is still clearly better. I share a lot of the things that the PP spokesman and the Catalan spokesman have said, but I think the time has come to take up the university's challenge. There is a fundamental problem; there is a problem of the employment situation, of all the conditions of both educational and administrative staff, of the future of the university and, above all, of putting us on the European line. We believe that the system of choice of the directors needs to be modified. We also believe that the choice of social councils should be changed in a different area from the one proposed in the draft law. We also believe that the connection of university research centres with what is the world, society and other types of companies is very important. And we also believe that we have to go to a university at the service of society and not an endogamic university. That is why the role of social councils must also be fundamental in deciding what studies are. One is horrified when they say that there are one hundred thousand jobs that Spain is not going to have in the next three years. Then, in the end, there is another type of study - both in vocational training and in university - where there is overbooking in order to have a job exit. You may have a lot of goodwill with this bill, but the main problem, in the end, to solve issues of university quality, personnel issues, compensations, hirings, quality, which all young people who want to have a university career can access is the issue of funding. Otherwise, this is wet paper. This is useless if there is no real commitment and a quantification of what it means to implement this model. That is why I would like to tell you that we will be tabling amendments, that we are prepared for the dialogue I have said to you and, above all, for a quality public university at the service of society, and that there is no young person in this country who cannot access it for economic reasons. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u104	Thank you, President. For our part, we share some of the aspects of the amendment to the whole that has been tabled by Junts concerning the competitive invasion, because the law proposes a number of questions in the field of prices and obliges a number of questions in the field of teaching staff and, however, does not say who will put the public budget for these changes, and as every time data on the investment of the State in Catalonia, in the country of Valencia and in the islands there is evidence of non-compliance, since it is normal for a law such as this to be mistrusted and seen with concern, which is also not accompanied by an economic memory. However, we do not share other aspects of the Boards amendment, and that is why we will abstain, primarily by returning to the three plus two. This was a struggle of the student movement, in particular with a very large involvement of the SEPC, the Sindicat d'Students dels Paísos Catalans, and it was managed to reverse; a struggle in the long cycle of struggles against the mercantilization of teaching that began with the Bologna Plan. Why? Because what is presented as a matter of academic structure, three years of degree and two years of master's degree, has a very clear economic background: the degree is at one price and the master's degree at another. In recent years, also thanks to the student struggle, it has been achieved the equalization of the degree prices with those of master's degree, and gradually progresses there, but this is the case of public master's degrees, it does not concern private master's degrees. In the case of Catalonia it is a small percentage that takes master's degrees in the private sphere, 12%, but it is somewhat higher that takes it at the UOC, at the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, which has higher prices than public masters. The master's degree continues to be more expensive than the degree; therefore, three plus two is more expensive than four plus one, and that has been a very clear struggle. All these are ways, in short, of raising prices and are the result of the European marketing strategy, and that is why we will not support the Junts amendment. As far as LOSU is concerned, presented by the Government, we will have time to talk specifically about it and put forward amendments. The formula by which it is said that the precariousness of associate teachers, the ever-greater presence of large companies in universities or the participation of students are very much improved issues in the law. On these issues, we will table amendments and discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u105	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u106	Thank you, President. Mr. Minister, I've left on guztioi. After more than a year of profiling and debating about the Law of Universities, three groups present amendments to the whole, each with different objectives. For our part, we are very clear that our objective is, first of all, to build a Basque university system made up of Basque universities, which meets the educational and research needs of our country and which help us to grow in knowledge and in social terms, as well as enable our development in terms of higher education and research and transfer. The LOSU presents us with a model of university in which we do not see the needs of Basque universities reflected. It is a law that does not take into account the uniqueness of Euskal Herria or that of the rest of the nations of the State. However, it is also true that, by comparing it with the law currently in force, this law presents significant progress, and in due course we will evaluate them. We announce that we will be demanding in the processing of this law, especially in two directions: first, in the light of the amendments that the different agents of the university community have submitted, we will bring these amendments to the parliamentary procedure so that they can be taken into account in the final procedure and, second, we will make contributions on the competitive aspect, since we think that the solutions to the difficulties that our universities have been experiencing for years will hardly come to be solved by a state law. We have no doubt that we need our own laws, also at university level, and that is why we will be demanding and rigorous in order to ensure that the competences we have in university matters both in Navarre and in the Basque Autonomous Community are fulfilled. On the basis of this, I come back to the initial point: the amendments tabled in their entirety by three groups. In the case of the People's Party, once again we tell you that you cannot afford it any more. [[Rumors]] You have had occasion during the years in which you have been ruling to have carried out the transformation and modernization of the university to which you allud and have rightly done the opposite, to perpetuate an obsolete model. They will use the processing of a law to confront the Government and extract political revenues. With regard to the amendment tabled by Together, we share a number of the points raised. We are also against a single uniforming model, we also disagree with the continuing reservation of the choice of the rector to the teaching staff and to the research staff of the doctor's office, because it undervalues the position of the hired teaching staff and the research staff of our universities, and, lastly, we do not share the fact that the teaching staff and the research staff of the office have to be majority. It must be ensured, for the autonomous communities with their own model of teaching staff and labour researcher, that they can maintain it and continue to develop and improve it. Despite sharing the above, we believe that an amendment to the whole is not the most appropriate way to improve this law. Let us not forget that the LOSU, in our view, is a step forward and that parliamentary procedure opens the door to further progress and improvements. That is why we will put all our energy into this and vote against these amendments in their entirety. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u107	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u108	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on, on, on, on. Having this law's positive and negative aspects, we announce from the beginning that we will vote against the amendments to the whole on the understanding that, while there are some aspects that have announced that they are not positive, however, it is those that have been stated as negative in some case, as in the amendment to the whole of the PP, which on the other hand we understand positive and encourage us to vote against these amendments to the whole. I am referring specifically to a general consideration, and that is that what we asked of this law was for it to be a framework law that would allow the further development of legislation by the autonomous communities to adapt it to their reality. The PP has understood in its amendment that it is a decafeinated legal framework, stating that many of the aspects allow the existence of a university system with a serious risk of disintegration. However - I repeat - what we understand is that this must be a framework law that must accommodate the uniqueness of the different existing realities, also because over the years different realities have been developed and built in each of the autonomous communities. In fact, we believe that it should reflect the diverse current reality that gives rise to different orientations of university policies, and that is why we believe that they must remain the autonomous communities responsible for the coordination of those that exist in their territorial sphere and their environment. For our part, we also value it as very positive - and we have claimed this in previous contacts with the ministry - that it strengthens the role of the autonomous quality assessment agencies. We have also, in line, called for specific recognition of all official languages other than Spanish, and we also consider it necessary for the law to contemplate a reality that is increasingly present in the European area, such as that of the Euroregions, given our involvement with a nearby environment. As for the professor, we ask for greater flexibility in contracts from the distinguished professor, and we like him to consider that all public universities or not constitute a university ecosystem from which we also request, and thus are included in the text of the bill, the explicit distinction between universities with and without profit and the recognition that within private universities there may be those of a social nature, including those of cooperative societies. We appreciate in a positive way something that already exists in Euskadi that we consider necessary, which is the establishment of units of equality and diversity of all universities, as we also consider positive to place human rights as the first reference of university functions. We also consider it interesting that universities have autonomy in establishing their own strategic lines and, above all, that is a fundamental aspect, the connection between vocational and university education. [[The lady]] However, we also understand that many issues remain to be improved, which is why we said that there are negative and positive aspects that we hope to improve in their processing. Thus, scholarships and study aids: we understand that the autonomous communities must have greater participation in this determination; dual training: we do not like that in the new article of the draft law any reference to university dual training is eliminated and we also believe that there is a need for a transitional period in its application; there is no talk of internationalization and it should be done; research, transfer and exchange of knowledge, exploitation, acquisition and recovery of foreign or immigrant talent, is also something to which the law should refer; continuing training and own qualifications: we would like to be able to introduce a provision to enable people who are not in possession of a university degree to have access and develop a degree of permanent training through the recognition of their professional experience. We also aim to facilitate the management of external funds for all universities. As far as public prices are concerned, we believe that in this case, and as has been mentioned with the PeCAT amendment, there is a clear intrusion into the competence of the autonomous communities, because the establishment of the ceilings limits the competence of each autonomous community and affects the reduction of their financial autonomy. Some aspects of university governance need to be improved by listening to the different actors. There is one aspect that has obviously been mentioned by several of the speakers, the teaching staff and the researcher. There are a number of aspects in which we believe that we need to fine-tune in the phase of partial amendments, which in any case we would bet that they are permanent and not strictly through the civil service. On this point, too, mention has been made of an issue - it gives the chance that I too am a tutor teacher of UNED - which unfortunately has not been addressed by any of the governments that have existed to date and which has been seen in a social abandonment, which we hope will somehow be repaired in this bill of universities. And finally, the autonomous quality assessment agencies. We will analyse aspects or proposals aimed at their improvement, since we believe that the existing one, even though it exists, can give rise to different draftings. That is why we have already announced that we are going to vote against the three amendments as a whole for very different reasons; of course, that of PEcCAT because we believe that many of its proposals can be resolved through partial amendments; with that of VOX we honestly do not agree in any of its approaches, and that of PP mainly because they have that centralized vision of the university that we do not share where the inspirational principle of the university is that of its autonomy, of course. I therefore announce that we will vote against the three amendments as a whole. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have again one of these debates which in this House are quite discompassed because it is not what should be an orthodox political and legislative debate. It is a disheartened debate because today we are dealing with the amendments to a whole bill, with the aim of returning it back to the Government, when this very week, yesterday, today and next week we will be in the appropriate committee with the agreed appearances so that the groups can hear experts about what should be and where the legal reform of the university system should be directed. The truth is that university experts are informing us about what they believe, what they think about this legal reform, when the bill is already on the table and, in fact, we are already working on amendments, amendments to the whole. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u111	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u112	Unfortunately, we have once again perverted the legislative process. In any case, we, in this reform of the university system, in Citizens, have a very special interest and, moreover, very much ours - let me tell you, Minister - because we are convinced that a good university system is one of the social pillars that guarantee future and well-being for all. Our position before this project is going to be critical, it is going to be a very critical position, but at the same time it is going to be a constructive, very constructive and very positive position. We believe it is important to acknowledge and thank Minister Subirats' attitude since his arrival in the government nine months ago. At this time we have had contacts, we have been told what the minister's objective and plan was after the change of title, we have been heard, and we believe that it is a good attitude on the part of a political manager. But it is also true that the legislative text proposed to us is not exactly what we were told or everything we were told, and in that we have to agree with some of the extremes that we have heard today in the amendments to the whole of them being debated. We do not share these amendments, we will not support them because they are all, but we must accept that it is true that the position of the ministry, and therefore of the Spanish Government, in regulating the Spanish university system, has been to reduce the role of the state and the presence of the state norm beyond what is, in our view, advisable. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this parliamentary term we have been attending proposals and statements from the Ministry of Universities, first from its previous head, Mr Castells, then from Mr Subirats, and on each occasion, for almost three years now, the position of the Government has been to continually change its mind on the content of its reform and on the very stalemate that it is intended to achieve. We believe that this shows that this government has not actually had a university model on its political agenda or, if there has been a model or several models, what is again the umpteenth controversy between the government parties to agree on what you want to propose to this Congress. If Minister Castells' initial proposals had nothing to do with the successive texts and the successive reforms and changes that came to light later, the current proposal still leaves many doubts to be resolved. I personally believe that there is indeed a problem in this bill that forces us to work hard to improve it and achieve the best possible legal standard. But I do want to make clear the position we are going to maintain in Citizens. We do not believe that the alternative of the Government of Spain to regulate the university system properly is justly not regular, not regular with a necessary reform that has also been called for and has been remembered today precisely by all the actors of the university system itself for years, because it is not a matter of failing to assume the competences that are specific to the State and not regulating anything by a misunderstood university autonomy, as is sometimes justified in this bill. That university autonomy, that we... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u113	Quiet, please. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u114	This university autonomy that we believe and respect as a fundamental right recognized in article 27.10 of the Constitution, we believe that it is not to leave universities the possibility of statutory self-regulation without subjecting themselves to homogeneous and stable criteria throughout the Spanish territory that are equal for all universities and that guarantee this equality of teachers and researchers, administrative and service staff and the student himself. It is this equality that must allow anyone to form or work in the Spanish university system with full capacity and with the possibility of moving between centers and territories, homologating situations and processes, eliminating precisely - and it is one of the objectives of the law that we like - endogamies. A law of the university system has to guarantee precisely these alternatives for the university world to move, move forward and progress. Moreover, this possibility is perfectly aligned with a university system in a European area and, why not say, global. Knowledge has no borders, and we therefore believe that universities should not have them either. That is why, precisely, we are not going to support amendments to the whole like that of Together, which we understand simply to make the university smaller and smaller, an institution which, by its very essence - which is so evident in its name in the very reference to the concept of universal human knowledge it houses and fosters - is totally incompatible with nationalism which denies people the rights to give them to the territories. Moreover, we cannot support an amendment that we have been told today to look at as something non-negative. Minister, this personally sounds like blackmail to me. But we also do not see any other amendments, such as that of the whole of the VOX, which simply label the project, like anything that he does not like, as woke, because it contains references to things as aberrant as equality, respect for the environment, the promotion of democracy or the guarantee of non-discrimination. His lordships of VOX claim the motto of Yale Lux et veritas, but ignore or silence that yes, the truth could be one, but that the best way to discover, promote and defend it is precisely with many spotlights of light to avoid shadows, edges and angles that prevent seeing precisely the whole of that truth. They just want us to see the light they want. Nor do we share the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party, but we believe that it is right to point out the shortcomings of the current university system, but that precisely these shortcomings must and can be corrected through political debate, the debate on proposals and alternatives, in that debate on the amendments that can be tabled and on which we can all negotiate. I reiterate the will of my group, Citizens, to work to improve this bill, to achieve the best possible law, because believe me, Minister, we really have an interest in improving the university system in order to improve the society to which that university must contribute knowledge and, above all, the future. You said it, we need a law that adapts the university to the new reality. That's what we want and on that path we'll meet. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u115	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas Valero. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u116	Thank you, President. One of the bases of a truly democratic system is to have higher education and, within it, the public university as its protagonist. We could say that, to more university, more democracy, more critical thinking, more research, more transfer of knowledge, more involvement in collective issues, more feeling of belonging and, in order for all this to make sense, the university must be treated as it deserves. It deserves resources, it deserves investment, it deserves a long look and it deserves dedication. The best way to demonstrate that we are concerned about the university is to dedicate the resources it deserves, to improve the conditions for PDI and PAS workers, but also to improve the conditions of the student, to be able to develop quality university models, as are the Catalan public universities, despite being underfunded. Ladies and gentlemen, this law will never be our law as long as it is based on a state framework, that is obvious, as independentists that we are, but it is even less so the law that we currently have, the Aznar government law, which not only did not have the Catalan model in mind, but wanted to end university autonomy in order to prevent the development of a model like Catalan. The debate we are having today is not about the final vote on this law. Today, we vote on the amendments as a whole and therefore today we decide whether or not we intend to influence the law. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u118	We can take advantage of the need for the votes of Basques, Galicians and Catalans, sovereignists and independenceists, or let this opportunity go. Our responsibility is none other than to defend the Catalan university model. We do not want the whole Spanish system to be like Catalan. We want them to let us decide what our model is, without barriers, without limitations and with the resources to accompany it. We want to be the ones who decide what our model should be. We want universities to decide what their model is. We do not want this to be decided from Madrid and, therefore, today, we do not compromise our final vote on this law. Our final vote is not and should not be decided until we have the final text, but we do make a bet to influence and ensure that the text opens doors instead of putting barriers, because the university community deserves it. The text of the law has many issues to address, many of which we share with one of the amendments tabled, but we believe that these issues should be defended in the negotiation, and we raise this in our amendments. However, we must also remember that the text has greatly improved in the last drafts that we have been able to analyse. It begins to align more with a 'basic law' or a 'decafeinated legal framework', as those of the People's Party criticize, which is just what we ask. Some of the requests made by our Republican Group, the Catalans' requests, have been included, and we must also underline this. We have made progress in equalizing rights between employees and civil servants... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u119	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u120	... in the autonomy of universities in governance, in the student's right of academic unemployment, in the right to know the language with which studies are conducted and a singular funding for universities with official languages other than Spanish, in the right to combine studies and work by the student, in a greater equality of the functions of the autonomous agencies and the Aneca or in the promotion of teaching. All this is being achieved thanks to a bet on the incidence because, from the beginning of the drafting of this law, we decided to be useful and to put our negotiating force of thirteen deputies at the service of the Catalan university community. [[Applauds]] The struggle for the defense of the Catalan model does not begin or end here. As we have already seen relevant changes in the text, we commit ourselves to continue to inciting so that there is more autonomy and recognition for autonomous agencies such as the AQU, so that the figure of the employee and his method of selection is preserved and promoted... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u121	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u122	... so that the cloisters remain genuine spaces for debate, that the right to academic unemployment is strengthened, that the presence of teaching is promoted, that the Catalan language is promoted in the university or that a door is left open to the universities of the arts. In the face of a model put forward by the right and the right, which aims to create an acritic and inaccessible public university for the private university and a homogenization of the university system, we and we will continue to fight for a public university, free of charge and of quality. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique i Saltor. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. There is a curious phenomenon in this House, which has no scientific explanation. The less time left to complete the plenary session, the more murmuring there is in the Chamber. Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor. I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u124	Thank you, President. I also share your reflection. Today we are discussing three amendments to the entire Organic Law Bill of the University System, which are actually amendments to the very idea of a public university, free, guaranteed and democratic. That is why we are going to vote against the three amendments. In its amendment the People's Party states that the LOSU is - he quoted - a project without a model of university and without objectives. And you say this, says the People's Party, which, of course, met all the goals with the university, specifically 20.1% less investment in public universities between 2012 and 2018 and the expulsion of more than eighty thousand students from the university system for their policy of scholarship cuts and study grants. [[Applauds]] The People's Party says that in this law the regime of teaching and research staff is incomprehensible. With LOSU, 25 000 associates throughout Spain, a quarter of the faculty, they will no longer be able to be fired at the end of the course without any compensation as a labor to use and pull, but that seems to be incomprehensible to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. In defense of the PP, I have to say that it is not that you have something against teachers, but that that people in general have a right and a stable contract is something that you have not just understood. That is why, when they were ruling, they left us a labour market with a temporary rate of 27% and that is why they voted against a labour reform that in just seven months has reduced the temporaryity to 22%. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] It also says the Popular Party - it has quoted - that the model of funding of the LOSU is ambiguous and has not been negotiated, and that is what the party of a minister, José Ignacio Wert, who vetoed any debate in the Council of Universities on the Royal Decree 14/2012, which concentrated the biggest cuts that have never been applied in the university sphere, all this despite the request of the president of the CRUE and fifty-nine directors; cuts of 9500 million euros between 2012 and 2019, which were approved without even listening to the directors. That is the dialogue that the People's Party preaches. [[Applauds]] In this legislature, by the way, the coalition government, which you so much denounce, has increased the budget for scholarships and study aid by 20% and the LOSU goes in that direction when it wants to shield at least 1% of the gross domestic product for public universities. In conclusion, the People's Party also says in its amendment that this law is not timely, that it is not necessary right now and that it only generates unnecessary tensions, but we already know that this is its answer for everything. Renewal of the judiciary? He doesn't touch it. Negotiation of the autonomous financing model? He doesn't touch it. Up from the minimum wage? He doesn't touch it either. What already affects you are measures such as eliminating the property tax so that the rich are even richer, as did Mr. Moreno Bonilla in Andalusia or Mr. Fernando López Miras in the Region of Murcia. [[Applauds]] I have to tell you that you are wrong, because here there is a government that will continue to govern and represent the interests of the working people and the families that voted for it. In the demonstrations against Wert's cuts we used to repeat a slogan: The worker's son, to university. The son and daughter of the single mother, of the immigrant who came looking for a better future, of the mason who barely arrives at the end of the month and of the taxi driver who sees his job in danger, to the university. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u126	Today we continue to work also for a higher education for all of them and for all of them. And if the amendment to the whole of the People's Party is already a misconception coming from who comes from, the VOX thing is on another level. I will read only the first paragraph of your amendment because I do not want to offend the intelligence of the rest of the Members thinking that I am inventing something: In recent times - says VOX - the world is witnessing the reinvigoration of a radical left ideology of Marxist court which, with the excuse of releasing certain preferred minorities and of ending the supposedly privileged classes, pursues no more or less than the dismantling of Western civilization and of classical rights and freedoms. This junk, I repeat, this real junk, is not a post from a Facebook page of canon's conspiracy followers, it's an amendment to the entire organic law of the congress of deputies. Therefore, first of all, I would like to say to the ladies and gentlemen of VOX that this is the seat of popular sovereignty and that it deserves a little rigour and a little respect, and work, above all. [[Applauds]] Neither Western civilization is in danger nor our rights and freedoms depend on saviors like you. Currently - we continue to say in its amendment - universities must be, according to the liberalized conception of the radical left, safe spaces in which any opinion that does not conform to the dominant ideology must be persecuted and destroyed; heretics are expelled, books are prohibited. So far the story of VOX, but you know the reality is very different. Without going further, you, Mr. Robles, have been teaching at university all your life, you have given talks at the University of Murcia against women's rights, which you call gender ideology. I went to his talks, when we were from the Association of Students of Philosophy of the Region of Murcia, where you said Spain had to leave the European Union. I heard that in a debate. You have had that freedom at university, but where you govern, instead, you impose parental pin and censorship in the classrooms and purge the textbooks so that our children know nothing about the sexual diversity or democratic memory of our homeland. [[Applauds]] We know it well you and I because in the Region of Murcia the education counselor - who is a VOX evicted, but at the end of the day VOX - has turned that counseling into a council of the Inquisition. The real danger to the public university is that you will ever reach the government. Can you imagine a minister of education from VOX, a minister of universities from VOX saying barbarities against women's rights or against the evidence of climate change? This new law of universities will do much for higher education. But the best way to fight for public college is to keep them away from it. I'm done, President. This Friday your ex-friend, Macarena Olona, is going to the University of Murcia and the university community has fully understood what you bring to the public university. That is why we are not giving them a second for their hate speech, nor are we giving them any space for fascism in the democratic university. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't stand in the hall talking. For the Socialist Group, Mr García Morís has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we expected a greater contribution from the Group of the European People's Party, but no. As he did with the Law of University Coexistence, he presents us with an amendment to the whole. It has not served the minister's and his entire team's hand at all, because once again you speak to us again of yourself the time is opportune or not to present a new law of universities; and it is that, if it had been for your group, in this legislature we would not have made university politics. Ladies and gentlemen, they base part of their amendment on the fact that the LOSU does not reduce precariousness, and this law does combat precariousness, this law does, and also the other policies that we have been deploying this legislature. Before referring to how the law acts against precariousness, let me explain where it comes from, because its origin lies in the measures that the last government of the People's Party promoted with its university policy. The cuts and reforms that you applied to the Spanish university system generated precarious scholarships and, in turn, expelled talent abroad, and also somewhat more serious, expelled students from university access because they could not afford to study. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, have you forgotten the limitations you imposed on the replacement rate on university staff? You prevented professional progress and led to the replacement of staff who retired as a precarious teacher. The direct cause of this precariousness, which we have been reversing for three years, is in its university policies. Ladies and gentlemen, access to the academic career is now at an advanced age. The average age of the assistant doctors, who, as is known, is the first figure in the academic career, is above forty years. Now this law, the LOU, establishes that the stable entry figure is that of assistant doctor, eliminating accreditation, but with commissions with an external majority to the convoking university, reducing bureaucratic procedures and allowing good curricula to be incorporated into the research teaching career once they reach the level of doctoral, without abusing other precarious figures in access and permanence, as has been done so far, thanks to their policies. [[applause]] They also say in their amendment that pre-doctoral contracts are not valued. This is not the case and not just because they are in the law of science and because both ministries work in a fully coordinated way, but because the budget has to be added to the normative framework, and I remind you that only for the National Programme of Training of the University Teacher there was a budget increase of 5 million euros, which will be increased in 2023, which will allow to improve the salaries during the realization of the doctoral thesis, an even greater bet than that of the previous exercise and which allows the generational relief in our universities. All this is aligned with the LOSU - as you can see, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, here there is no improvisation, nothing improvisation - and also in coordination with the policy of scholarships and fees that we have been deploying these years, of which you have not said anything. The LOSU recognises the subjective right - yes, Mr Robles, the subjective right - of university students to access scholarships and study grants linked to the socio-economic situation of applicants. [[Rumors]] And this is very important...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u129	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Garcia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to follow the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u130	Thank you, Madam President. He said that scholarship policy is very important because you facilitated the rise in university fees, tightened the criteria for obtaining a scholarship and reduced the budget allocated to them. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last budget almost EUR 2200 million has been allocated to scholarships, the highest figure in our history, because, unlike you, we, from policy, are working for equal opportunities and to make the Spanish university system one of the most equitable. [[applause]] Almost the same as you, right? Almost the same as aid grants for families who enter more than 100,000 euros, isn't it, Mrs. Moro? [[Applauds]] And then they dare to talk about taxation and taxes. In addition, this law marks the way forward for further progress in reducing public prices. And it is also important here to place you on the right in the face of your contradictions or, rather, to expose you and your policies. We can counter models. Mrs Ayuso assumed a few days ago that the drop in university fees in the Community of Madrid is the biggest drop in the history of the community, but what Mrs Ayuso does not tell us is that she does so because it obliges her to the policy of the Government of Spain. [[Rumors]] Nor does it tell us that when the government announced this measure Madrid opposed voting against at the General Conference on University Policy and, not only that, filed an appeal with the Madrid High Court of Justice. [[Applauds]] And what is Mrs. Ayuso doing now? It takes away, but we have to say things as they are: they reduce the rates by 20% per obligation, thanks to the measures of the progressive government of Spain, despite its own, because our measures have an impact on people. Look at you, talking about models: in my land, Asturias, socialist governments froze university fees during all these years, thus compensating your university, the University of Oviedo, and did not, like you, turn the crisis on the backs of our young people and their families. All this is progressive university politics and along this path goes the LOSU, in spite of you, despite those of always not, because you are the ones of no: no to the minimum wage, no to the rise of pensions, not to the aids in the transport, not to the top of gas... Ladies and gentlemen, no, no and no. And despite that extreme attitude, we continue to work, and that is why we propose a text like this which is being debated here today, a rule that encourages the reduction of the gender gap in research, in university governance structures and in university curricula; which is committed to the internationalization and mobility of teachers, to the central role of students, to lifelong learning, to open science and so on. It is a bet for a high-quality university that I hope will continue its parliamentary process today. Despite you, gentlemen of the PP and of the other groups that have tabled amendments to the whole, we will continue to work with the university community and with the other parliamentary groups in favour of our university system. I hope you'll join the process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u132	We conclude with the last item on the agenda, on the proposals for the House plenary's avocation of the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on the prevention of food loss and waste and of the draft law regulating the management system of the common agricultural policy and other related matters. These proposals will be put to the vote together with the rest of the matters just now, at the end of this meeting. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with the votes. We started with non-law propositions. No bill by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to defend the right to education in Spanish. Separate vote. First paragraph. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 66 against, 276.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u134	It was not adopted. Point 1 of the second paragraph. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 67 against, 189 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u135	It's rejected. Point 2 of the second paragraph. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 66 against, 191 abstentions, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u136	It's rejected. Point 3 of the second paragraph. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 66 against, 189 abstentions, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u137	It's rejected. - THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS MAY COMMON PODEM-GALICIA ON THE AMENDMENT OF LAW 9/2012 OF 14 NOVEMBER ON THE RESTRUCTURING AND RESOLUTION OF CREDIT ENTITIES; THE LAW 11/2015 OF 18 JUNE ON THE RECOVERY AND RESOLUTION OF CREDIT ENTITIES AND INVESTMENT SERVICES; AND THE REAL DECISION 1559/2012 OF 15 NOVEMBER, ESTABLISHING THE LEGAL REGIME OF ASSETS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF ASSEMBLY, IN CONNECTION WITH THE LEGAL REGIME OF THE ASSEMBLY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY PROCEEDING FROM THE BANK RESTRUCTURATION. [[File number 162/000953]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u138	No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United We Can-In Comú Ponde-Galicia in Common, on the amendment of Law 9/2012, of 14 November, on Restructuring and Resolution of Credit Institutions, Law 11/2015, of 18 June, on Recovery and Resolution of Credit Institutions and Investment Services Enterprises and Royal Decree 1559/2012, of 15 November, establishing the legal regime of asset management societies, in relation to the legal regime of the Asset Management Society from Bank Restructuring. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 59 against, 278 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u139	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u140	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the Government's intention to comply with the opinions of international bodies in order to comply with democratic and political rights in the Spanish State. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 68 against, 275.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u141	It's rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE CONCRETE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO SOLUTION THE POSITION OF SPAIN IN ENERGY AND SOLUTION TO THE RUIN OF SPAIN. [[File number 173/000167]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u142	Motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM(88) 347 final — Doc. Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 54 against, 289.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u143	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 63 against, 191 abstentions, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u144	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 64 against, 190 abstentions, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u145	It's rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 54 against, 289.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u146	It's rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 54 against, 289.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u147	It's rejected. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 63 against, 193 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u148	It's rejected. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 144 against, 189 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u149	It's rejected. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 63 against, 191 abstentions, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u150	It's rejected. Point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 153 against, 188 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u151	It's rejected. And point 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 63 against, 190 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u152	It's rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on progress in the development of the loss of the electric and connected vehicle and its impact on a strategic sector for the Spanish economy as a whole. [[File number 173/000168]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u153	Motion resulting from urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the progress in the development of the electric and connected vehicle's PERTE and its impact on a strategic sector for the Spanish economy such as automotive. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 157 against, 172 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u154	It's rejected. DEBATE ON THE APPRECIATION BY THE CAMERA OF THE PREVISION CONTAINED IN ARTICLES 135.4 OF THE CONSTITUTION AND 11.3 OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/2012 OF 27 APRIL, BUDGETARY STABILITY AND FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - No, no, no, COMMUNICATION FROM THE AGREEMENT OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS OF 26 JULY 2022, AS REQUESTING THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTATES TO APPRECIATE THAT SPAIN IS SUFFERING THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ESTALLIDATION OF WAR IN EUROPE AND OF AN ENERGY CRISIS WITHOUT PREVIOUS ENERGY, AS SUBJECT TO A SITUATION OF EXTERNAL EMERGENCY, TO THE EFFECTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLES 135.4 OF THE Constitution AND 11.3 OF ORGANICAL LAW 2/2012, OF 27 APRIL, BUDGETARY STABILITY AND FINANCIAL SUSTAINABLEITY. [[File number 430/00005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u155	Discussion on the assessment by the Chamber of the forecast contained in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Communication of the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 26 July 2022 requesting the Congress of Deputies to assess that Spain is suffering the consequences of the outbreak of war in Europe and an unprecedented energy crisis, which is an extraordinary emergency situation, for the purposes provided for in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Voting on the Government's request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 195 against, 53 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u156	The application was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u157	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the bill amending various rules to consolidate the equality, universality and cohesion of the National Health System, submitted by the Parliamentary Groups Citizens and VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 64 against, 191 abstentions, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u158	The amendments were rejected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u159	Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft Organic Law of the University System, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Groups at the Congress, VOX and Plural, Mrs Illamola Dausà. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 148 against, 193 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u160	The amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u161	Initiation of legislative initiatives. Voting of the request for the House plenary to approve the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on the prevention of losses and food waste, submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes; 337 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u162	The avocado is hereby approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u163	Finally, a vote was taken on the request by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of the draft law regulating the management system of the common agricultural policy and other related matters. Submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 336.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-22-CD220922.u164	Such action was approved. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was two and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
