ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. I ask you, please, to remain silent and to occupy your seats. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u2	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, only in seven days will you eliminate the crime of sedition to settle your debts with those who do not believe in constitutional Spain; it will reduce corruption; it will pass another ideological law with the reports against and without the approval of the experts, such as the trans law, and it has tried to change the system of appointments of the Constitutional Court through the back door. Is this the popular will expressed in the ballot box? Look, citizens are worried about coming to the end of the month; they are worried about the shopping basket, fired 15% this Christmas while you refuse to lower VAT; they are worried about the mortgages fired and are also worried about their harmful laws, such as that which has benefited 108 sex offenders and has already put tens of them on the street. Mr. President, to whom does your government defend? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Your Honor. To the social majority of this country, to the people on foot. [[Rumors]] We did it during the pandemic and we're doing it during the war. We govern for the nine million pensioners who are going to be revalued according to the CPI, we govern for the twenty million workers who have seen their labour rights recovered thanks to a labor reform approved by this government, we govern for the million students who receive a scholarship or the two and a half million users who today take free public transport thanks to the commitment of the government. [[Applauds]] And all these measures and many more, ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted them without your support, with you always find. These measures, moreover, are having a beneficial outcome for our economy. We are the fastest growing economy in the European Union and we have the lowest inflation in the eurozone. Even you recognize it because you no longer speak of economy; you have returned to the usual racca racca racca, you return to the racca racca de Gobierno légitimo, de Gobierno okupa, even I have heard your leader criticise that the Government of Spain will appoint the President of Post. But let's see, ladies, was Mr. Feijoo appointed President of the Post Office by Mr. Aznar for his long experience as a postman? [[Laughter and applause]] You have a particular way of interpreting the Constitution. According to the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution corresponds to the following: the citizens elect the Legislature, the Parliament elects the Government and the Constitutional Court and the General Council of the Judiciary, not we, the People's Party, appoint them. Your Honor, that is not what the Constitution says, and this government is going to enforce the Constitution, but not the one you say, but the one that is written and approved by the Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u6	Mr. President, you've only seen plots lately where there is legality. [[Protests]] Look, your problem, and I say it to you with all serenity and firmness, is that you believe that you are the State and the law, and fortunately, the rule of law works against all your attempts to degrade institutions. It turns out that going all the way was to push the rule of law, but the rule of law has doubled his arm, lucky for everyone. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] After the attention of the Constitutional Court and Brussels, he now says that he will do so again. The truth is that you remind us more and more of Junqueras and Puigdemont every day. [[Protests.-Several Members: Hala!]] Look, your intimidation strategy hasn't worked, but you will continue to pursue the dissenter because you only understand politics as the art of deception and imposition. But I say to you that the People's Party is not intimidated and that we will continue to defend the legality and, of course, the general interest of all citizens. [[rumors]] In addition, we offer a better government to all those who want to live their lives in a political climate of tranquillity, under the umbrella of the 1978 Constitution and in a country... [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u8	...where the law is equal for all and we are all equal before the law. The People's Party is here to offer the Spaniards a moderate, useful and responsible alternative. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u9	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u10	You only think of yourself, and we think of everyone. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you have said that you would do whatever it takes, and indeed you have gone too far, Mrs Gamarra, but to the contrary: failing to comply with the Constitution and blocking the renewal of constitutional bodies important for the proper functioning of our democracy. [[rumors]] [[Several Members: Nooo!]] I therefore ask you not to go further, to return to the point of departure and to comply with the Constitution. And if they don't, we transfer a message of tranquility and serenity to the whole population. [[Protests.-Applause.]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK THE GOVERNMENT DOES EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO HELP The people? [[File number 180/001119]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u13	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u14	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Mr. President. Do you believe that your Government is doing everything possible for the people, for the institutions and, ultimately, for the democracy of this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I believe that it is, and more so in a context as difficult as the one we have had to manage in this legislature: a pandemic, now a war, between a volcano, a Filomena, a DANA. Your Honor, if all that we have achieved in terms of social rights, in terms of achieving freedoms - which, unfortunately, are being resorted to by the right and the right in the Constitutional Court to curtail all those rights achieved -, if all that has been achieved in that context, imagine, Your Honor, what we would be able to do when the wind blows in favour. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: That's it!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u17	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u18	Thank you very much, President. Mr. President, I was talking to you about specific things. Above all, I was talking to him about what happened just 24 hours ago, about the judicial attack orchestrated by the right in this country. There is one thing that gives a lot of anger in life, and it is that one is told that of: I already told you. But we've already told you, we've already told you that the next ones are going to be you. We told him and the only thing that remains to be said is: welcome and welcome to the judicial war that took place a few years ago in his exemplary democracy against whom. You're already next. The question we have to face is: what now? What now? Apart from complaining, what do we do now? For many years Esquerra Republicana complained about the captivating interpretation of the Penal Code. This situation did not change until the Republican Left became involved in the change of the Penal Code. Perhaps now, in order to try to change part of the judicial power that works for the right and the right, in Republican Left we have to get involved in the change of judicial power. But I ask you: what now? That you want to present here a law that will recover the amendments that were laid down the other day in the Constitutional Court? Do it. Do it; there we are. That you want to dignify the Constitutional Court? Do it; there we are. That you want to dignify the General Council of the Judiciary? Do it; there we are. Because the difference between you and us and us is that we and we won't let you down. [[Rumors]] We will not leave them behind, and we do so simply by dignifying democracy, because first of all, before independenceists, we are democrats. So think about it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. You have indeed referred to what has happened in the Constitutional Court over the last few hours and have indeed made some criticisms of Spanish democracy. I want to share with you, and with you in particular, a reflection. It is clear that our democracy, like all democracies in the world, is perfectable; it is imperfect, it needs improvements, it needs reforms. And it is also clear, Your Honor, that all such reforms and improvements are to be made within the law and from the law. [[Rumors]] And I like to listen, and I want to acknowledge, to your parliamentary group because they have already assumed that democracy is, in fact, always based on popular sovereignty, and also on respect for democratic legality. [[Applauds]] And I think this is very important, Your Honor, because we can defend all the ideas we want, but it must be done within the constitutional framework and within democratic legality. And indeed, Your Honor, I believe that yesterday there were meetings, debates between the various parliamentary groups because, in short, what has happened has also been an interference of another power in the functioning of the Legislative Power. [[Protests]] It will therefore be up to the parliamentary groups to decide what is the solution to this institutional conflict that has created a conservative majority in the Constitutional Court. Indeed, a Constitutional Court, and also the General Council of the Judiciary, which have been blocked for months, years, by the irresponsibility of the main opposition party. Indeed, Spanish democracy has a problem; when the main opposition party does not recognize the election result, we have a problem. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MIRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THAT IN SPAIN IS THE SEPARATION OF POWERS? [[File number 180/001132]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u21	Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u22	Is there really a separation of powers in the Kingdom of Spain, Mr Sánchez? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u23	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u24	Your Honor, to such a specific question, the only thing I can answer is yes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u25	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u26	What is happening in the Kingdom of Spain, Mr Sánchez, does not come from now and it is not just a party, this is the result of a partisan war between the usual, between you and the PP. It doesn't go right or left or blocks, it goes from something as undemocratic as who controls the judiciary and the deep state in the Kingdom of Spain, the PP or the PSOE. This is Spain, and you cannot go on covering up your shames any longer; neither can you. We are not going to use the votes of the people who have given us their confidence to participate in the laundering of you take away from me, and today is a good day for you to explain to the Spanish citizens that the problem we did not have in Catalonia, that the problem was not Catalonia, the problem has been and is all of you, who were thought that suspending democracy in Catalonia was going to come out for free. We will not be among the naive people who believe that reforming Spain is about giving power to you, to the PSOE, as if the PSOE were something very different from the PP. It's the same PSOE that endorsed 155, like PP. The PSOE that in electoral campaign proposes to stop the president of Catalonia and reform laws to do so, like the PP. The PSOE who applauded the 'A for them', like the PP. The PSOE that, like the PP. [[pronounce words in Catalan]] The PSOE that said and that says we're criminals, like the PP. The PSOE which now places ministers in the Constitutional Court and in the Prosecutor's Office, such as the PP. The PSOE that doesn't pay Catalonia, like the PP. The PSOE, which, together with the PP, urged the Constitutional Court to suspend democracy in Catalonia. And we are not going to participate in this war of yours because, Mr Sánchez, there is an alternative for all the citizens of Catalonia, an alternative that is worth it. As our colleague Cervera said, the only guarantee to live in a full democracy that respects freedoms, progress and fundamental rights is unique and exclusively through the independence of our country. The trial will end not when you say, Mr Sánchez, it will end up gaining independence. Visca Catalunya free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u27	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you, as the saying goes: A river revolted, earnings of fishermen. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Really, Your Honor, what we're doing here has nothing to do with what happened in Catalonia. You broke the Constitution; you broke democratic legality. We want the Constitution to be enforced, from the first to the last of the articles. [[Applauds]] It is completely and radically different what this Government and the parliamentary majority are doing to support what you say. What's the problem? One, the problem we have is that the main opposition party does not accept the election result. [[Applauds.-Protests]] And, consequently, it blocks the renewal of constitutional bodies and the proper functioning of democracy because it considers that the judiciary is its own. That the legislative power emanates from the citizens' vote, that the government is elected by the deputies, but the judiciary is not, these are serious things and it is elected by the members of the People's Party. Man, Your Honor, don't tell me we're the same! Here we are defending compliance with the Constitution and they are doing the opposite. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Your Honor, why does the People's Party do this? Clearly, he does not like the laws passed by this House and the Executive. He does not like that we pass a law of euthanasia, he does not like that we pass a new educational law, he does not like that we approve a labor reform that recovers rights, he does not like the minimum income vital. That is why the ultra-right and the right are doing all this social progress before the Constitutional Court. And why do they do it? Because they do not have a parliamentary majority; they do not recognize that they are in a minority and therefore try to rule from behind by making the Constitutional Court, with its conservative majority, curtail those rights. [[Applauds]] And, Your Honor, what do you want me to say, that the trial is over, is it over? I didn't say it, Jordi Sánchez said it. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHO DOES THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THIS GOVERNMENT BENEFIT? [[File number 180/001124]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u29	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u30	Thank you, Your Honor. That is, the President of the Government says that Esquerra complies with the Constitution and the People's Party, no. Sounds like a joke, Your Honor! [[Applauds]] We have to see how the President has just delegitimized the Constitutional Court again, and this is very serious. But look, Your Honor, we must agree that transparency must be an obligation of any Government and, given the controversial recruitment of National Heritage that affects you, you now have the opportunity here to shed transparency on this matter, it will not be that your silence is more destructive than your explanations. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u32	Thank you very much, President. The question you have registered is who benefits from the government's economic policy. The truth is that the Spanish economy is resisting well in a very complex international context, but it must go even better than it seems when you do not want to talk about the economy. [[Applauds]] Week after week they come here and talk about ETA, Esquerra, Catalonia, try to embarrass all the good things in this country, damage the institutions, attack people, not to recognize and realize that the Spanish economy is going relatively well. The Banco de España yesterday revised this year's growth forecast upwards, up to 4.6%, giving us a solid basis for growth next year. Inflation has fallen 4 points in four months, placing Spain as the lowest inflation country in the whole of the European Union. We are presenting and preparing the addendum to the recovery plan to continue investing in the future of our country. In short, there is a government that gives tranquillity, confidence, acts responsibly and takes four and a half years with an economic policy that our country needs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u33	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u34	Madam Vice President, you are disconnected from reality. Let's talk about economics. This is the table - they are sources of the European Commission -. [[Show a chart]] In the years of his mandate, we are the last to recover - look - from the whole of the European Union; the last to recover economically and very differently, Your Honor. That is why the situation of Spanish families is more delicate. And I fear that also on this reality your silence is building a thick layer that hides an incapable government that leads us to ruin, but not only to economic ruin, but, as we are seeing, also to institutional ruin. It is true that you came from the European Union. Will you also participate in an express law to reform the Constitutional Court, without reports, against the dictates of the European Union, Your Honor? Yes or no? Because, Your Honor, you say many words, but there are few facts. The shopping basket is triggered and Spanish families suffer every day the consequences of their bad government. The flour has risen by 37%; the milk, by 31%; the eggs, by 27%; the potatoes, by 20%; the rice, by 16% more expensive; the mortgages go up; we lead unemployment in the European Union. How do you say the economy's going well? Your Honor, really, look in the mirror. Have you seen today's poverty data? We have 27% of the Spanish population at risk of poverty, with the public debt triggered. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the People's Party and lower taxes, the basic food basket. But, of course, this is not your priority. The Spanish see how their priorities are different: to agree with the independenceists, to legislate the dictatorship of the criminals, to depress the institutions of the rule of law - here today directly the president of the government - or even to threaten the opposition when we resort to them in amparo, ladies and gentlemen. When this happens - like now - Spain needs more People's Party than ever before. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you do not like this, but this is called freedom, this is called democracy and we will not be silenced or stopped... [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u36	...and they won't tell us what we have to do, which is defend freedom and defend the Spaniards. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u37	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u38	Thank you very much, President. The only thing we have seen from his party are threats: Spain is on the verge of bankruptcy. He said it married and he says it now Feijóo. But the Spanish economy is well resisting a particularly difficult international context, not by chance, but because it has a government that takes the right measures. While you are trying to boycott all the initiatives that can be good for the country, we are presenting an addendum project to continue using European funds to boost the investment of productive future thinking in the next generations. While you damage the image of Spain by harming the institutions and attacking our country's general interest in the European institutions, we, with the third vice-president in the lead, lead the debates to try to set a ceiling at the price of gas, energy, in Europe, a measure that obviously benefits all citizens. [[applause]] While you want to generate instability, we approve the State's third general budgets so that in 2023 the Spanish economy and all citizens will continue to live in a context of political and economic stability, which is what our country needs. While you are trying to embarrass, punctuate and poison the political environment, we remain focused on governing responsibly, rigorously, with temperance, always thinking of the general interest of our country, defending with patriotism the interest of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT OPINION DOES THE EVOLUTION OF THE SPANISH ECONOMY DESERVE IN 2022? [[File number 180/001115]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u39	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the year is over and it's a good time to assess how we're doing. Judging by the tone that you bring today and that you brought in the president a moment ago, surely we agree, because the reality is very simple- you want us to talk about economy - the reality is that Spain is still the only country in Europe that has not yet regained the pre-crisis level. We remain the country of Europe with the most unemployment, we remain a country in which the deficit accumulates year by year in the form of public debt that is growing to unsustainable rates and that you are going to transfer our grandchildren, and we continue to have the Spaniards with an inflation that impoverishes them month by month. Anyone would say things are pretty bad. But it is also true that they are not bad for everyone; that is true. A few weeks ago I said that there is no one in Spain who has prospered with your Government, and you told me about the people who access public education, public health, that people receive certain subsidies, as if that were to prosper. I am surprised that for you that is to prosper, because that may be to survive, but to prosper is to ostensibly improve one's personal situation, especially in economic terms. But then you told me something very celebrated by your bench, you recommended me to change friends, and I want to tell you that now I understand what you want to say. You mean that in order to prosper, that is, to improve one's economic situation, what needs to be done is to be friends with this government. And I have to give you reason, because it is true that in Spain precisely those who are close to the government are prospering: friends, party partners, family members. There are some who have prospered a lot, especially those who are close to you, Minister. So, from the privileged watchman who gives him his position, what opinion does the evolution of the Spanish economy deserve in this 2020? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u41	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u42	Thank you very much, President. The truth is, I didn't know if I was listening to you or it was the PP's echo, because the arguments are identical, as they usually happen. In fact, on the bench of the opposition from the first moment, since the year in which the motion of censure took place, the speech has been identical. We can no longer distinguish the right from the right from the right, in an absolutely destructive attitude that does not at all help - I believe - the general interest of our country. The truth is that this has been a very hard year; very hard from the point of view of the impact of war on Europe's doorstep, from the point of view of the inflation challenge, from the point of view of the challenges arising from the likely slowdown in the European economy. Spain is part of the European Union; we have important trade exchanges with the main economies in our environment and, therefore, it is clear that war has a negative impact on our economy. But fortunately we closed the year better than could be expected at the beginning and in February, when the war broke out. Week after week I have shared with you how the economic situation is evolving and in recent weeks we see that all the agencies review upwards the growth forecasts for this year, giving us a higher and stronger basis to enter 2023 with confidence and determination, to continue on a path of progress like that which our country has followed since the arrival of democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u43	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u44	Madam Minister, I think that in these months we have already talked a lot about how it is a falsehood to say that the Spanish economy is growing a lot in the sense that that is a good indicator, because we come from far behind and, as far as we grow, we are still the only European economy that has not been put at the 2019 level, see if it is serious. I mean, with you Spaniards are worse than when they arrived, that's simple. But not all of them, indeed. Not only their family members, not only their party partners, in Spain have also prospered a great deal: the seditious, the thugs, the floot-terrorists, the pederasts, the sexual aggressors, the rapists. These are the only ones that have prospered in Pedro Sánchez's Spain in 2022. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u45	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u46	Thank you, President. Record levels of social security membership and employment have been achieved in our country. We have over 20.5 million people affiliated with Social Security. We have a million more people with indefinite contracts than before the pandemic. One in two contracts at present is virtually indefinite. We have a situation of improving the wage level and rising the inter-professional minimum wage. We have a level of inequality that, according to the most recent indicators, has in fact been reduced - at least not increased - despite the pandemic and despite the negative impact of the war. We are taking decisive and also effective measures to contain inflation and ensure a fair sharing of the impact of war. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, citizens know very well that in these years we have had to go through very difficult situations, very hard situations, as I said at the beginning, but they also know that they can count on a government that always has citizens, as I often say, in the head and in the heart, always thinking and ruling for the general interest. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES EUSKERA CONSIDER A TRACTOR ELEMENT OF DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION IN THE NEW ECONOMY OF KNOWLEDGE AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001120]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u47	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u48	Good morning, Madam Vice President. Do you believe that euskera is a tractor element of digital transformation in the new era of knowledge and artificial intelligence?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u49	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u50	Thank you, President. Eskerrik asko. Yeah. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u51	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u52	As I feared, eskerrik asko and point, what exactly is his LOSS. Article 3.3 of the Constitution speaks of Basque as a cultural heritage of special respect and protection. I do not know if you are aware that there are families, that there are many people who live their day to day in Basque and who are also concerned that their descendants in the future can also continue to live in Basque, and that these people are European citizens and are also entitled to receive funds. You have a PART that defines it very well, unites PERTE of New economy of language, so, singularly, 11 billion. [[showing a document]] Now you have announced 2 million for the Basque, for all projects in the Basque. In parallel, they announce 20 million for the Intelligence Center of the New Economy of the Language, an observatory in Spanish. Evidently, CREA, CORPES XXI, MARIA, LEIA and the digitization of the Cervantes Institute are named in the PASTE, but nothing is said about Etxepare, in Basque. They're all projects in Spanish. If you take the sectoral axes - I will read them literally -, you can see the following: artificial intelligence in Spanish, science in Spanish, learning Spanish and Spanish in the world and cultural industries. No other languages are spoken. I've examined these axes. Money for languages other than Spanish, where can you get it? Well, about 195 million. You have already told us that 30 million for other languages and 2 for the Basque language. Of 11 billion,30 for other languages. Who needs the help most, the Spanishman you say you speak - and so it is - more than six hundred million people in the world or a Basque who has been out of school for so many decades? I guess we'll have to make a special effort. This PART is unfair. You have not reached any agreement with the Basque Government or the Basque Language Academy. It's just that they didn't even go to the presentation, precisely because of this. I ask you to change this model, to develop something that can be useful for all languages and to make a special effort for languages other than Spanish; otherwise, you will not count on our collaboration. Nothing more and thank you very much. This is an important part of us, of our own culture.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u53	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u54	Thank you, President. Mr Esteban, you know very well the enormous respect, the appreciation, the pride we have of living in a country that has different languages. I believe that it is part of our wealth, that it is part of what we are, that it is part of our identity, and therefore this Government has always supported and defended the importance of incorporating the multilingual dimension of our country into this growing new digital economy. That is why we launched this strategic project of the new language economy. I know that the Commissioner has visited all the autonomous communities that have their own language and has spoken with all the relevant institutions and therefore one of the first measures we have put in place has been, precisely, that transfer of resources to the University of the Basque Country, through the Basque Language Technology Centre, in the same way that we have not only supported the GAITU project in the case of the Basque Country, but also the AINA project for Catalan, the WE project for Galician and the VIVES project for Valencian. This is the first project we have launched. We have launched and are going to launch calls for a network of excellence in artificial intelligence, a national plan of language technologies will be made and we will try, precisely, to exploit all the synergies and all the benefits that derive from having a country in which not only do we have a language that, by the way, speaks six hundred million Spanish speakers worldwide, which is an absolutely extraordinary scale that must be exploited from the point of view of the economic power of the language, but also that multilingual dimension will allow us to have richer systems and develop a business ecosystem that can take full advantage of the opportunities of this new language economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT WILL THE GOVERNMENT FRONT OF THE POSSIBLE CHANGE OF PRICES BY THE GREAT PETROLEUM ENTERPRISES INVESTIGATED BY the CNMC? [[File number 180/001129]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u55	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u56	Thank you very much, President. Madam Vice-President, between 28 November and 2 December, the staff of the National Commission on Markets and Competition proceeded to inspect the premises of Repsol, Cepsa and BP in the search for indications of alleged anticompetitive practices that would violate the Competition Law and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As a famous man would say, it's no small matter. It is true that we are still under analysis, but taking into account the precedents of bad practices, which exist and many, we would like to know what the Government will do in the face of the possible price disruption by the large oil companies investigated by the National Commission on Markets and Competition.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u57	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u58	Thank you very much, President. I will answer you as the first Vice-President of the Government, but above all, and also as a former Director General of Competition. The support we give and the impetus we are giving to the National Commission on Markets and Competition to investigate, to monitor the evolution of energy markets and to act with determination to prevent any kind of abuse is total. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u59	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u60	Well, total, total, but they complain about lack of resources and means; that is, that you can certainly do something else, but then I'll come back to it. I think it is worth remembering what the net benefits of these companies have been analyzed today. Repsol, from January to October 2022, obtained €3222 million, 66% more profits than in the previous year. Cepsa, between January and September 2022, obtained 982 million euros, 97% more profits than in the same period of the previous year. Don't you think they've won enough? Someone was saying here, in a previous question, that only criminals prosper in the Sánchez government. Well, these companies have prospered a lot, and I don't need to go much further. In any case, what seems obvious is that their practices are trying to corner the rest of the small businesses. They control 60% of the 11,880 gas stations through direct or indirect management with subsidiaries and it seems that this is not enough. Do you have to fear an inspection and a possible sanction? The normal thing would be that yes, but the facts certainly give them the reason and it seems that not so much, because if we take into account the long history of small fines and large pardoned fines, really fear would have to be relative. To mention a few small ones, on 18 December 2020 they sentenced Repsol to EUR 5 million for price violations in July 2009 and in December 2013, together with Cepsa and BP, again the trio. On 26 April 2021 they sentenced Repsol to 850,000 euros because it failed to comply with the terms of a trade agreement, in this case with Petrocat. But the most funny thing is that on 13 July 2022 the Supreme Court annulled two fines of 30 million euros that had been imposed on him in 2015 for irregular practices in the period 2011-2013. More resources are needed for the NCMC, that is clear. We need to listen to them when they ask for more staff, we also need - and I know that this is a sensitive issue - more demand from the courts that they do not really condemn so many fines and we need, of course, less fines for these companies.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u61	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u62	Thank you. Two additional elements of response, Mr Matute. I totally agree with you that we need to investigate in depth and to its ultimate consequences, and there may have been anticompetitive behaviors. I also agree that fines have to be disincentives, they really have to ensure that they do not compensate for infringing the rules. And I also believe that it is important for all institutions to support a firm sanctioning regime against anti-competitive conduct, which are ultimately abuses that harm citizens as a whole. Support for the action of the NCMC is total. In fact, from the very beginning, since the rise in energy prices began, we have been installing and supporting them to act with determination in order to make a thorough follow-up of price developments and to identify any kind of anticompetitive behaviour. An investigation is now under way, we will support the measures proposed by the CNMC and we have also proposed, and have adopted, the establishment of an extraordinary levy on the benefits of this sector. I believe that this makes clear the determination of our Government to prevent at this very delicate moment, in which so many Spanish families and so many Spanish companies are being harmed by the rise in energy prices, there is someone on top who gets an extraordinary benefit and, ultimately, gets a situation of privilege or relative advantage as a result of something as terrible as a war at the gates of Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY MARIA VALENTINA MARTINEZ RARRRO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTRY OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND Vice-President: WHAT IS THE BALANCE OF HER RECENT TRAVEL TO ARGENTINA? [[File number 180/001125]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u63	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by María Valentina Martínez Ferro, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u64	Mrs. Díaz, you've been traveling to Latin America lately on account of the public erarium. He has been to Chile, Mexico, Uruguay, Argentina and has already announced that he is going to Brazil. It could well be so much travel to undo the miscarriages that Mr. Alvarez generates in the region - he has already seen the success that his visit to Mexico has had - or to defend even the Spanish legacy, but no, that would be working for everyone and his is a tour for his photos as leader of a non-existent party. The last stop of his journey was Argentina. On the same day that the Government and its partners decided to reduce the penalties to embezzlement, you were going to hold with Mrs. Kirchner your six-year prison sentence for a corruption offence. Who did you intend to represent when you're offering support to a former president convicted of stealing $500 million? Or is that not corruption for you? Or is it that since the corrupt is left-wing, it is not corrupt, nor is Maduro a dictator or a coup castle? Or has Mrs. Kirchner also been convicted by Mrs. Belarra's proficient judges? Do you consider the left above the law? [[Applauds.-A Member of the House: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u65	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u66	Your Honor, let me hear from you and your corruption party is a mess. The balance I make of these two trips is very positive. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u67	Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u68	Unable to answer. They are so convinced of their moral superiority that they claim to turn it into legal superiority, and everything to the cry of 'yes can'. Those who have a more than severe problem with democracy are you, those who call on disobedience instead of calling for law enforcement, those who came to regenerate the institutions and have degenerated them, those who came to cleanse them of corruption and lower the penalties of embezzlement. They neither respect the institutions nor respect the opposition, nor respect Brussels, which yesterday told them that the reforms needed prior consultations and you have replied as Junqueras, that you will do it again. Mrs Díaz, no one in democracy is above the law, no one, neither you nor Mr Sánchez, no matter how many lefts he may be. Democracy is to respect the rights of the minority and not to crush them, it should remind Mr Santiago. And it seems a lie that I have to remind you when you come from Podemos Galicia. Sovereignty resides in the Spanish people and in all the representatives elected by them. And if you don't like this minority, don't be afraid; call elections, because then the minority will be you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u70	Your Honor, I'm going to answer your question with data and I'm going to explain to you what institutional travel is for. Since we are in the Government of Spain, this Ministry of Labour, that of all Spanish and Spanish, has signed thirteen memoranda of understanding with thirteen countries with different political signs, thirteen memoranda of understanding that value Spanish labour legislation. We have ratified the European Social Charter with its protocols, although many of you said that this government was not going to do so. And look, Your Honor, you're a Galician like me, we've ratified ILO Convention 177; the 188, on fishing - does that ring a bell? Ask a Galician what it means to him - 189, about domestic workers and 190, about violence and harassment at work. Your Honor, today we are the country that has ratified the most ILO conventions in the world, unlike what happened when the People's Party ruled, which turned international politics into a swamp. [[Applauds]] They did not ratify any conventions. Your Honor, listen a little bit. We have even defended the first resolution in defence of the social economy in the United Nations Assembly and have obtained the support of many countries around the world. It is true that we have a different conception of institutional policy and its representation in the world. I have just made the same journey that the President of the People's Party, Mr Feijoo, has made, with a difference, Your Honor, that this Vice-President of the Government has respected the two legitimate governments in Uruguay and Argentina. I have had the same institutional agenda in Uruguay, right-wing, that in Argentina, unlike Mr Feijóo, who knows what he has done? Meeting with his friend Lacalle and, yes, with the opposition, Macri and Piñera. [[Rumors]] Of course we have differences with what you do in Argentina. Do you know what you are going to Argentina, that we know you very well in Galicia? Attracting vows. That's what the People's Party is going to Argentina for. [[Applauds]] Do you know what this is called in Galician? Carretaxe, and it is true that in that you are specialists. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND Vice-President: ARE YOU IN THE SERVICE OF GENERAL INTEREST? [[File number 180/001118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u71	Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u72	Thank you, President. Madam Vice President, you're going on a tour of Hispano America with the narco-communist group in Puebla to campaign as the leader of your Sumar platform and we don't know who's paying for it. Once there, I intended to make technical stop in support of a criminal, Mrs Kirchner, convicted of corruption, but, of course, who supports corrupt people does not miss us because in Spain they also do, although they are pardoned here directly. It aims to expropriate the savings to the owners who have more than five houses, in the purest Chávez style, and that in turn these owners can only charge rents of old rent, like those of old. With what law will they expropriate the houses, with that of 1954, which still have in force? They don't repeal it, even though it's anachronistic and older than the black thread. He abandons the officials of the Labour Inspectorate, suffocating himself every day with more tasks without seeking the right human means, and these warn him that they will go on strike, the first in the history of Spain of this body. There's no precedent for that. He proposed raising taxes to supermarkets, which he applauded during the pandemic, forcing them to offer affordable shopping baskets, and if he did not do so he would ban them from having their profits. It betrays the Spanish entrepreneurs by introducing a Bildu amendment to the Employment Act - Bildu, adalid of peaceful negotiation -, by granting without legal basis the functions of revision of the ERE to the Labour Inspectorate, which, as I have already said, it abandons, condemning to work more for less. After analyzing all this, are you acting in the service of the general interest? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u73	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. Yeah, just like the rest of the Spanish government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u75	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u76	For I believe that you are rather acting in the service of your own interest and your ideological agenda, apart from the interest of the Spaniards of all conditions. I don't have friends who have more than five homes, but I don't have friends who enjoy a 450-square-metre house, like you, where the Spaniards pay you their expenses with our taxes and you avoid the obligation to report how much they cost you. [[Rumors]] So, Mrs. Díaz, who would want in Spain to have five medium-sized dwellings that could be expropriated by being able to enjoy one of 450 meters free of charge, like you? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u77	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u78	Your Honor, defending the general interest is to prevent him from getting fired in this country when the workers are sick, and you are voting against it. Defending the general interest is raising the minimum wage by 3.6%, and we are going to raise it even more this year. To defend the general interest, Your Honor, is to make a labor reform that makes today we have 17.5 million wage earners in this country, with their vote against. To defend the general interest is that today in Spain ultraactivity is indefinite. Defending the general interest, Your Honor, is that we have improved subcontracting in Spain. To defend the general interest, Your Honor, is that we have, in fact, sector agreements that raise wages to workers. To defend the general interest is that, from January, we eliminate the cut in unemployment by the People's Party - its friends - and unemployed workers will receive an additional 100 euros a month. To defend the general interest, Your Honor, is to make a law for women domestic workers, with their vote against, who today have rights in Spain thanks to the Government of this country. [[Applauds]] To defend the general interest is to have a law rider - with you manifesting yourself at this door - so that the most vulnerable workers have rights. Defending the general interest, Your Honor, is, yes, that the people of culture, with Minister Iceta here present, have rights, and we will make the status of the artist and we will fulfill our obligations for this sector. Defending the general interest, Your Honor, is ultimately improving people's lives, something you would never do if you ruled. [[Rumors]] And do you know what's wrong with him, Your Honor? That you scream a lot because you have nothing to say to our country. [[Applauds]] - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHAT TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC SALES IS THE BARMAN PROJECT IN CONNECTION WITH THE SAFETY OF SUBMINISTRATION AND THE IMPULSION OF INTERconnectION WITH EUROPE BETWEEN THE MIDDLE PROJECT? [[File number 180/001107]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u79	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u80	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, why not reduce the emissions of an energy element, which is clearly harmful and polluting, in which you have become an expert producer? The smoke, the propaganda. Look, the last one. The President of the Government presented on 9 December the H2Med project - a month earlier he had announced it - which was transporting gas and hydrogen in principle and now only hydrogen. He announced an infrastructure without reports, without a project, without detailing who and how it is financed. A new tube of 500 kilometers that will have in the underwater part depths above 2500 meters and that will come into operation within ten years, or we will see. Smoke. Now, Mr Sánchez has achieved what you wanted: to liquidate the MidCat, Mrs Ribera, a viable short-term project with only less than 100 kilometres left to transport gas from Spain to France. A lot of effort and money has been invested for nothing. It would have been possible to supply non-Russian gas to our European partners thanks to the fact that we have six regasifiers and our coast and two pipelines with Algeria; well, no two, one, since last year only one thanks to the brilliant foreign policy of your Government, Mrs Ribera, with Algeria. With the MidCat we would have strengthened our political influence in the European Union for two reasons. First, because we would improve the price of gas to all our partners; and second, because they would reduce dependence on Russian gas. That's what you've been brushing, Mrs Ribera. Who benefits from this turn in interconnections? Spain, of course not. Can you give an explanation with discretion and rigour, please? Thank you. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u81	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u82	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I see him enormously dislocated, so dislocated that he has forgotten that it was the commissioner Miguel Arias Cañete and his services who determined in the cost-benefit analysis of the MidCat that it was an unviable, ruinous project, since basically it was to export the liquefied natural gas - at that time much more expensive - in a northeasterly direction, coming from the southwest, knowing that the vast majority of the continent received gas through a much cheaper Russian tube. Obviously, it is very easy to do past bull exercises and it is very easy also to forget that France does not have a system that allows it to pump gas to the German border. So, in fact, what we have done has been to work to maximize the existing infrastructures, greatly increasing the export of gas with an additional compressor in Irún direction France, with the installation of a system that allows us to transport metaneros from Barcelona to Italy and with the activation of that platform that represents El Musel in the coming weeks to logistically guarantee the arrival of liquefied natural gas and storage for when Europe needs it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u83	Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u84	Thank you. Another smoke bomb. Who brushed off the projects of Community interest the MidCat, Mrs Ribera? You, you at the Energy Council, and you know that. He does not lie in parliamentary office, which is very ugly. [[Rumors]] What happens to gas is the reflection of its energy policy. I'll give you two examples. One, with its Iberian exception, we burned 75% more gas than last year in order to be able to manufacture electricity that we subsidized to France. Two, when you came to the government in 2018 we import 0% of Russian gas; today it is 12%. You have turned Russia into the third gas supplier in Spain. Do you know, Madam Vice President? Do you realize that you're helping fund Putin's war with Russia? [[Rumors]] No idea. I only ask you one thing: who benefits from your energy policy? Because, as you've just shown, the Spaniards don't. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u85	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u86	Thank you very much. I see that it applies also to ignorance or bad faith. Basically, the project was discarded without any other alternative being put forward in the Energy Council. And basically, what we have done has been to guarantee the supply of electricity and gas to our neighbours. [[Rumors]] And I'm going to tell you one thing, six months of implementation of the Iberian mechanism has just been completed. Do you know what you've done for the pocket of the Spaniards? A saving of more than €4 billion. [[Applauds]] More than EUR 4 billion! Guaranteeing electricity supply between 2 and 3.5% of France's total, which requested support, and 35% of Portugal's electricity supply, whose dependence on hydroelectricity, in an extremely dry year, has been tremendous. We have reinforced the possibilities of electricity interconnection pending with France - it becomes a priority objective of France for the first time in history - and we do something very different from what you did: we anticipate. [[Rumors]] Because Europe will need renewable hydrogen and investments - if you want to listen to me - in hydrogen production and transport infrastructures, logically, have very important maturity dates. So, don't worry, it benefits... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u87	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA FIGAREDO ÁLVAREZ-SALA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD VICESIDENT THIRD AND MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WITH TWO MILLIONS OF HOUSES IN ENERGY POVERTY SITUATION, DO YOU THINK YOUR ENERGY POLICY IS CULPABLE? [[File number 180/001104]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u88	Question by Mr José María Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Mr Figaredo ÁLVAREZ-SALA: Madam Minister, according to the latest data, we have in Spain approximately two million people at risk of energy poverty. Why do you not ask the Spanish whether this situation is precisely determined by their energy policies? Don't you think this is so? [[The Rumors Continue]] Ask the question and get out of doubt. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u90	Thank you very much. He must have forgotten that in 2019 we approved the energy poverty strategy and decided to incorporate not only explicit indicators, but also what is called the risk of hidden poverty. And everything points out that the four major indicators of hidden energy poverty - that which represents a comfort below usual -, representing a significant percentage of the income in a family, have remained stable or decreased. I want to tell you something. For us this is an absolute priority: ensuring thermal comfort and ensuring that the bills, both heat and electricity, of households can be taken over by all families. By the way, we have missed them in those interventions, in those decrees laws that have been dedicated precisely to increasing, strengthening coverage or even creating new protection figures for middle-income families, which are also affected at such a tremendous time as the energy crisis that is representing the war, the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u91	Mr. Figaredo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u92	Madam Minister, the truth is that you are coming and telling us that the escalation of people in energy poverty is simply because they are now studying. Your answer is absolutely surreal. The reality is that since 2018, when you came to the government, the number of people at risk of energy poverty has only grown. It is clear that this situation is solely due to the energy policy that you are implementing, because all the substantive measures that you are carrying out produce an escalation in the costs of energy, both of transport fuels and of electricity, and the only measures you take to prevent this are subsidies. You're talking about the fuel subsidy, perfect! It is temporary, Minister; it is not a structural measure, which is what Spain needs. You are talking about the Iberian exception, which, again, is a subsidy that will be paid through taxes by all Spaniards. When you talk about savings, it's not savings, it's deferred payment. It's like you get to the restaurant and leave the bill to duty. That's exactly what your ministry is doing. So, you are implementing policies that increase the prices of energy products and all you do is subsidize to camouflage these shooting costs and, of course, limit the reputational and voting impact, which is all you are interested in. The doubt that arises here is who you rule for. For those corrupt socialists bribed by Morocco or by Qatar? Sure, power suppliers! In addition, you to Morocco then guarantees contracts to plant olive trees and make direct competition to Spain. You buy dirty energy from Morocco. In short, you do not rule for the Spanish. You don't rule for the Spaniards! Its measures are detrimental to all Spaniards. So, I beg you, ask. Ask! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u93	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u94	Thank you very much. We don't just ask, we follow up. This allows us to confirm that, from June 2018 to December 31, 2021, we have improved energy poverty data linked to disproportionate household spending, hidden energy poverty and inadequate temperature in winter housing. It has worsened slightly, however, with delays in payment of supply invoices, which, however, are covered by our regulation in the two exceptional situations we are experiencing, both on the occasion of the pandemic and on the occasion of the invasion and the disproportionate growth of the energy bill. We have expanded not only the energy with discount, but also the families who can access that discount. We have dedicated ourselves to investing in structural measures for better isolation from our homes, for accompanying families, complementing it with the minimum living income. And I'm going to tell you two very important things: in order to be able to seriously cover all of this, do you know what is needed? A progressive and progressive fiscal policy where those who have the most can contribute to the budgets of the State, precisely to accompany the social measures that are needed. [[Applauds]] And you need a second thing. Autonomous administrations committed to the poorest neighbourhoods, effective public services to identify who needs support. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u95	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JAIME EDUARDO DE OLANO VELA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: Has THE GOVERNMENT VALUED THE EFFECTS THAT MAY CAUSE THE REDUCTION OF THE PENA IN THE DUTY OF MALVERSATION, AS AND AS ANTI-DUMPING TAX HAS WARNING? [[File number 180/001127]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u96	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u97	Thank you, President. Mrs. Llop, one hundred and eight rapists or pederasts have seen your sentence lowered thanks to your law of yes is yes, as long as you continue to stand idly by. And for greater mockery, the victims have to listen to Mr. Sánchez say that he is proud of the law that exculpates rapists and pederasts. There's already sixteen of them out on the street. Why do they refuse to correct their law? In case this were not enough, with the law that lowers the penalty for the crime of embezzlement, they will do it again. You are a judge, how do you assess the effects of reducing the penalty for the crime of embezzlement? [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u98	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, what the government appreciates is its criminal record. The criminal plot that he also made about the misappropriation in the year 2015 the People's Party. [[Protests]] Your regulation, moreover, has taken us away from the regulations of countries in our environment, so I don't think you're going to be teaching about this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u100	Mr. Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u101	Thank you, President. Mrs. Llop, you answer like Irene Montero. We're barely going to be a minister of justice! You said yesterday that it is absurd for the General Council of the Judiciary to report a proposal for a law. Do you keep that statement, that real nonsense? The European Union already answered him yesterday afternoon when it told him that it could not be legislated without listening to the advisory bodies. The control of previous legality by the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State or the Fiscal Council is a guarantee, a guarantee to avoid irreparable errors by the Legislature. In other words, it is what protects the Spaniards from their incompetence and bad faith. But why don't you ask for these reports, Mrs Llop? Because you don't want to protect the public, you don't want to protect everyone's money. It is only a matter of paying with public resources Mr Sánchez's debts with his criminal partners, budgets in exchange for lowering the penalties of embezzlement to some gentlemen with names and surnames condemned by the process, and, by the way, to the last president of the Socialist Party, condemned for stealing almost 700 million euros. You, who accuse us of creating anti-democratic pathologies, do you not realize that there is nothing more anti-democratic than modulating criminal charges according to who commits the crime? Mrs Llop, all the prosecutors' associations, all of them, denounce what you are doing. Even the Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor is asking them not to step back in the fight against corruption with the reform of embezzlement, and warns them of a new drip of convictions and even the prescription of crimes, preventing the conviction of many corrupt. As much as they try to distort things, Mrs. Llop, misappropriation is stealing public money. Mrs Llop, with you rapists and pederasts applaud, criminals draft the Penal Code, corrupt people rub their hands, and the others hope to put the ballot boxes to put an end to the worst government of democracy. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u102	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u103	Thank you. Your Honor, listening to you, from the People's Party, the only party condemned for corruption in this country, I find it surprising. [[Protests.-Various ladies and gentlemen: No, no, no!-Various ladies and gentlemen: Yes, yes, yes!-Applause]] And after listening to you, I have to tell you something, Your Honor. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u105	What this Government has wanted and what it intends to do is to return institutional normality to Spain, which is obviously impossible given the anti-democratic obstructionism of the People's Party. I will refer to two constitutional bodies. You constantly insist on blocking the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. Yes, Your Honor. And, therefore, the General Council of the Judiciary cannot perform its functions either, nor can it appoint the judges of the Constitutional Court because they have been infected with that undemocratic germ that is really a pathology. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u106	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u107	And in the other constitutional body, the Constitutional Court, with its appeal - an appeal, moreover, which has surprising extensive effects from this House to the Senate - have prevented the processing of very important reforms, precisely, to avoid those pathologies that have exclusively created the People's Party and its leader. So, Your Honor, what you have to answer to the citizenry is why it bothers you so much and why you criticize so much a way of legislating that you have used as well as the most. Are we talking about who amended, by amendment, the law of aliens, nothing more and nothing less than the law of aliens, in a bill of the Organic Law of the Judiciary? Are we talking about who amended the Competition Law, nothing more and nothing less than the Competition Law, by amendment, in a draft law on the legal regime of the public sector? Are we talking about who amended the regulation on assisted reproduction, by amendment, nothing more and nothing less than a bill on public sector information? They had to be ashamed of themselves with that resource, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF PRESIDENCE, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE DECLARATIONS OF INDEPENDENT LEGISLATIVES TO CELEBRATE AN ILLEGAL REFERENDUM IN CATALUONE? [[File number 180/001126]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u108	Questions to the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u109	Minister, after hearing the last case of corruption in the Valencian Community of the Socialist Party, are you going to recommend to Mrs De la Vega to resign from the Council of State? [[Applauds]] Pardons, sedition, embezzlement, referendum. These are steps that Pedro Sánchez has been climbing, trampling on the dignity of our nation. What will be next? Look me in the eye, please, that today you have no teleprontore, and answer me: how does the government value the statements of the independence leaders to hold an illegal referendum in Catalonia? [[rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u110	Mr President, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's talk about a referendum. Do you know when two illegal referendums were held in Catalonia? When you ruled, when you ruled. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Yes, of course, two illegal referendums, two disconnection laws and a unilateral declaration of independence. Because you, when you ruled Spain, were a catastrophe managing Catalonia and managing the rest of the country. [[Applauds]] And, therefore, I ask you to make less jokes and more to comply with and enforce the Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u112	Mrs. Montesinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u113	Thank you, President. Look, Minister, it is unusual, indeed, and petty for you to blame the People's Party at this stage, because even Mr Iceta resorted to that, which was the sole and exclusive responsibility of the independenceists with whom you all today agree, absolutely all, the laws and reforms. [[Applauds]] It is unworthy of you, indeed, Minister. You no longer have any credibility, absolutely no credibility. Even the European Union has told you that they are monitoring you. That's all there is to it. And yesterday he endorsed the Constitutional Court's actions. [[Rumors]] In democracy, the image they have conveyed these days is intolerable. His appearance was improper for a Democratic minister, warning the Constitutional Court what it may or may not do, what it should or should not stop. And regrettably, what underlies in this new assault on an institution, the Constitutional Court, to place its candidates in this way: a high office of Moncloa and a former minister with a clear tone and sanchoist pedigree, who signed the shameful insults of his government partners. And in these circumstances, anyone might think that their intention is that no one can stop the referendum demanded by their partners, those who did, generated and caused the 2017 coup in Catalonia. And neither the Constitutional Court nor its role in guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards would deserve this. You, who are soaking up the vices of independence, already have a new slogan: we will do it again. Even so, the Constitutional Assembly is putting down its sluggish way of lawmaking, they have already announced that they will do so again. As the European Union warns them that judicial reforms require prior consultation, they will do so again. It doesn't matter, because you will repeat over and over again everything that goes against the rule of law and the separation of powers... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u115	Thank you, Madam President. You have a very stormy relationship with the truth. [[Protests.-Laughter.]] What you say about the European Commission is rigorously false, false, and you come here to use that as an argument of authority, when it is an absolute falsehood. Obviously, the European Commission has not made any ruling on the Constitutional Court's decision. [[Several Members: No, no]] By the way, what does it mean when Mr Feijóo says that he will go as far as it takes to protect the judiciary from a legitimate government, chosen by Spanish citizens? What does that mean? What are you talking about? What are you two trying to say? Does this mean that you are able to push democratic institutions, such as the Constitutional Court, to the limit? [[Applauds]] Never, in 44 years of democracy, in no European country has there ever been any interference by the Constitutional Court in the parliamentary activity of democratic courts. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Never, ever. And you have strained to the limit the Constitutional Court, by the way, with a reputational cost to the Constitutional Court very difficult to understand... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u116	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u117	... For those of us who are democrats. [[Protests]] You reach the limit with a single purpose: to be able to be a majority, even if the Spaniards do not give it to you, to try to prevent the social laws of this government to improve the lives of citizens, because you are always finding all the social advances of our democracy, of the law of abortion, of the law of education, of labor reform, of the law of euthanasia, of all the advances. You want to rule when you have majority and when you don't. That's why you're a little democrat. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u118	Thank you. - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WILL THERE BE A SEPARATIVE REFERENCE IN CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/001116]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u119	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, will there be a separatist referendum in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u121	Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u122	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u123	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Don't you? Well, look, I'll answer him: yes!, because it turns out that last week Junqueras explicitly announced that there would be that referendum, and, moreover, he did it by walking around, recalling all the promises that Sánchez had made and that he has not fulfilled in relation to pardons, embezzlement and sedition. And any consequence, Minister, that Sanchez has agreed, with convicted criminals, to impunity for the crimes committed and for those for which they may commit in the future, because, among other things, in this very House they have announced that they will do so again. So, get out of the way and let's get things in place. You know that this separatist referendum is a key part of the coup that Sánchez and the separatists are giving against the Constitution and its ultimate foundation, which is the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, and a coup that is also being fought against the separation of powers and the rule of law, sponsored and promoted by the Government and its partners, exerting unprecedented verbal violence against political opposition and judges. Insults, threats and lies to the left of the media. Fortunately, before yesterday, the Constitutional Court resisted the instigation in defense of the law and fundamental law of parliamentarians, and therefore today you announce a new assault, again in law fraud and forcing the procedure, because you know that submitting to the Constitutional Court is fundamental to Sánchez for many things, and, among other things, to be able to convene the separatist referendum in Catalonia that Junqueras demands and announces. So, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the blow continues. Faced with this, VOX will continue to fight to prevent Sánchez from stealing from the Spaniards the homeland, coexistence, democracy and freedom, and also for him to have to answer to the courts for his faults. Friday, first chapter. Spain will win. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u125	Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you were a member of the People's Party when the People's Party was summoned to two illegal referendums in Catalonia. Therefore, you are no authority to talk about this matter. [[Several Members: Nooo]] We have managed to move on to the year 2017. Because I guess there's not going to be any solution that's divisive of Catalans, that chronicles the conflict, that chronicles the confrontation. We are in solutions of the year 2022, that pass through the dialogue, that pass through to have bridges of understanding, that pass through to comply with the law and the Constitution, the law and the Constitution that you do not comply with nor did they enforce in the year 2017 in Catalonia. Therefore, why don't we look at today's Catalonia, in the Catalonia of 2022, which is the one that gets a thousand million dollars worth of investment, such as the PART of the electric vehicle, which gets the pipeline between Barcelona and Marseille, which gets the only vaccine in Girona that is strictly and exclusively produced and manufactured in Europe? That is the Catalonia of 2022 and it hurts you, because you are indeed in it again, in which you would once again tension Catalan society, again tension Spanish society with its policies of confrontation. You are an ultra-rightist party that is born in the heat of territorial confrontation, you are an ultra-rightist party that is going to languish in the heat of territorial solutions for Spain, because you can only live comfortable in confrontation and conflict, your statements and interventions are just that: conflict, hatred and confrontation. That is why I simply want to end by highlighting what is the far right in Spain: it is not a novelty that the far right intends to put in prison democrat socialists, it has always happened. [[Rumors]] Therefore, I ask you to do democracy, please do an exercise of respect for the ballot boxes and the Spaniards who have democratically chosen this to be the government and Pedro Sánchez its president. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE FRENCH BAL DEPARTMENT, IN SUPPORT OF THE INSIDE DEPARTMENT ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE JUDGES ARE TO BE HEARD? [[File number 180/001121]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u127	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u128	Mr. Bolaños, do you consider, as Patxi López, that we should give the judges a touch of attention? Is this the way you have to defend democracy in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u129	Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u130	Good morning, Madam President, thank you very much. Mr Bal, the People's Party has been blocking the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary for four years; the Constitution in Spain is being implemented throughout the country, except in Genoa 13. You guys are doing water dancing, like that's something natural. Not only have they been blocking the Council for four years, but they have also prevented the Council from appointing two judges of the Constitutional Court, and they have recently also pushed the Constitutional Court to the full to issue unusual orders in the history of democracy in Spain and Europe. And I ask you: does that not seem to you, as a democratically elected Member in these Courts, to be a touch of attention to the Democrats and to the Members, that the free exercise of the legislative activity of this House can be prevented? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u131	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u132	Does it not seem to you that, as Europe says, we could tomorrow change the system of selection of the General Council of the Judiciary, as I have offered you so many times, and we would end the problem? [[Rumors]] Do you know who you're protecting? They protect partners convicted of sedition and embezzlement, protect corrupt and embezzlers, and protect future criminals, who will do so again. You leave the Spanish Constitution, the rule of law and the Spanish nation without arms and defence. You do not confuse, please, your particular interests and those of your partners with those of the Spanish, when you trade with the Penal Code as a currency of exchange of budgets to protect those who broke the coexistence in Catalonia, to protect those who broke families and friendships, to protect those who silenced the voices of millions of Catalans and Spaniards. You do not confuse those desires and interests that you have with those of the Spaniards when you won - yes, of course you won - the elections by deceiving the people, saying that you were not going to compromise with Podemos or Bildu, silently the pacts to bring the prisoners of ETA to the Basque Country and give them prison benefits, saying that you were going to bring Puigdemont, that you were not going to pardon, that you were going to define the illegal referendum, that you were going to fight corruption. That's a laugh, fighting corruption, you guys. If he was so handsome, why didn't they put him on the election program? You don't have a word, Mr. Bolaños, you don't have a word. When you say that there is going to be no amnesty, it is going to be amnesty; when you say that there is going to be no referendum, they are already setting a date for that referendum. Have you heard Mr. Rufian say that he will help you to cease the judges? Can you imagine that tomorrow a majority will legislate against LGBTI people and the Constitutional Court will bring down that legislation? Will they also be coupsmen? The clothes are torn and you have been sharing the Constitutional Court with the People's Party for forty years. But, well, at least he says he's going to comply with his resolutions. Man, I'd just miss it, less bad. Stop your attacks on the Constitutional Court. Stop your attacks on the judiciary, for the reform of the crimes of sedition and embezzlement, and you will be protecting Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u133	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bal, if you were really a centre and liberal, you would be horrified by what the People's Party is doing with the General Council of the Judiciary and would be equally horrified by what you are doing tensioning democratic institutions to the maximum so as not to accept a parliamentary majority that wants to legislate, but you are unfortunately not, and that is why you are constantly dancing water to the right. What you would have to do if you were also liberal, is to recognize the rules of the game, which are as simple as when the law is in force, it follows, and when you want to change that law, you get a parliamentary majority to change it and to reform it. It is quite simple, this you would call it a liberal democracy, I call it simple and plain democracy. Well, because you don't do it, the right, the big block of the right that you make up, the People's Party, VOX, the right, the right, you don't obey the law, so you don't comply with your constitutional obligations. And, of course, you are part of that ultra-right group, because it is also quite simple to tell the Spaniards that they recognize the legitimacy of the government that emerged from the ballot box, democratically elected by the Spanish and Spanish. Why don't they? Why have they always been questioning the legitimacy of the government for four years? Why do they not recognise the social progress being made by the parliamentary majority in this House? Why don't they recognize the laws, the aids, everything we're doing to protect citizens? You now - I don't know in a while - continue to call yourselves Citizens, but what you do is politics against citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE SERGIO SAYAS LÓPEZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: HOW MUCH DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK FOLLOW DEMOCRACY IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001117]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u135	Question by Mr Sergio Sayas López, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u136	Minister, how far does the government intend to go in its attack on the Constitution?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u137	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u138	Thank you, Madam President. The questions and the tone, as the House can observe, are perfectly interchangeable between the far right, the right, the extreme right and a transfugue of Navarra, it gives the same, they all say the same. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That is why I think it is very daring that you should be the one to ask a question about democratic quality; you, the first thing you would have to do is to fulfil the mandate of your constituents, to leave the record and not to be a transfugue. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u139	Quiet, please. Mr. Sayas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u140	Look, Minister, you have very little time to be a minister, we already knew that; now we see that you also have very little time to be a Democrat. [[Applauds]] We will talk about transfuguism later; first we will talk about democracy. It is intolerable to have seen ministers threaten judges of the Constitutional Court. It is inadmissible to see the President of the Government, the President of Congress, the President of the Senate and yourself trying to discredit the Constitutional Court. Throughout this week they have prevented Members from going to a guarantee court when we see our most elementary legislative rights trampled on, and they do so because you do not want Parliament to control the government, what you want is a government that controls Parliament in the purest Bolivarian style, but Spain is a democracy and in a democracy no power can be above the law. I already know that this is what Junqueras, Forcadell, Puigdemont thinks, but now this is also what the Socialist Party thinks, because of so much compromise with independence, you have mingled with it. There is no longer any difference between sanchism and independence. [[Applauds]] You come to talk about state covenants when with one hand you offer the Constitution and with the other you hit it, offering to remove sedition, embezzlement and illegal referendums. Today he told Esquerra that he wants to be in the Constitutional Court, will he also give that to him? Are you going to put the enemies of the Constitution to take care of her? Don't answer me because, in total, his word has no value. [[Applauds]] You speak of transfuguism, I will tell you one thing: I look at you, Mr Sánchez and each of the Socialist Members who, by their vote, have endorsed this attack on democracy and I think that they are the greatest case of transfuguism in the history of Spain. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: There!]] Because the leaders we sit here are not the presidents of the political parties, the leaders we sit here are the Spaniards, whom you have lied to, betrayed and humiliated! They told them that with Podemos, no; they told them that with Bildu, no; they told them that they were not going to pardon thugs; they told them that they were coming to fight corruption, and what they have done is reduce the misappropriation. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] You have built a government around a massive lie and a collective deception. Now that all Spaniards know the truth, take them out in the ballot box so that, with transparency, they can choose the future of Spain. [[One Member: Take it now!-Several Members: Very well!-Applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX, with some standing positions]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u141	Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u142	Thank you very much. I congratulate you. Clearly, today he has added points to integrate into one of the parties on the right or the right with his tone and with the content of his words and, therefore, he has certainly fulfilled the objective of his question. [[applause]] Why does it bother you so much that Spain is advancing at such a difficult time, first with the pandemic and then with the war at the gates of the European Union? Why does it bother you that the President of the Government has managed to raise the price of gas, and therefore electricity, in our country? [[Rumors]] [[The Rumors Continue]] Why does it bother you that you have achieved EUR 140 billion for the benefit of the Spaniards, the minimum living income, that we have passed a climate change law, that we have passed the labor reform or also a law to protect LGBTI and trans collectives?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[applause]] Why does it bother you that Spain is moving forward? Why do you not recognise the legitimacy of this government and this parliamentary majority? [[Rumors]] I will tell you one thing: of course democracy feels beaten and weakens when, for example, the General Council of the Judiciary is blocked, as does the People's Party, a party to which you aspire to belong. [[rumors]] Of course, democracy is weakened when the legitimacy of the Government and the parliamentary majority is not recognized, as does the far-right party you aspire to represent. And do you know when democracy is further weakened? When there's a case of transfuguism like yours! Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIRL PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: DO YOU THINK THAT A BAD LAW MUST BE CORREGED? [[File number 180/001128]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u143	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies of the PSOE, what is Minister Montero still doing on the blue bench? [[Applauds]] Palma, year 2015. A 19-year-old girl meets a boy through the Badoo social network. Following his instructions, he stays with him at his home, but he realizes he's not the guy in the photos and asks him to leave. Weeks later, with another false profile on the same network, the man comes back and rapes her. It was not the first time he used this method; he is known as Badoo's rapist, and, thanks to his law, last week he saw his sentence lowered. Monday, Zamora. It reduces by two years a father who repeatedly raped his two daughters, between the ages of twelve and eighteen, and between the ages of seven and nine, one of them with disabilities. And so up to one hundred and eight conviction reviews; nineteen rebates only on Monday, and last Friday, twenty-two. There are beneficiaries in sixteen autonomous communities and up to sixteen convicted have already been released. Is it true, Minister, that this law is not wrong and must not be corrected? What else has to happen if someone in this government is to take responsibility for something? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u145	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u146	Your Honor, thank you very much. This law allows for the first time to protect all victims of sexual violence, to whom they report and to whom they do not. [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u147	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u148	In any case, I know that it is a bit difficult for you to understand, but who is the one who decides in a rule of law whether a law needs to be reformed? You, Mrs. Prohens, the People's Party or the Legislature? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u149	Mrs. Prohens.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u150	In short, Mrs Montero, you are not going to correct the law. If you're not going to correct the law, it's because you think it's right; if you think it's right and you don't need to correct it, that's why you ignored all those who warned you that it would happen: the General Council of the Judiciary, the People's Party, the associations of judges and prosecutors or the association of lawyers Themis. And if you didn't listen to them and don't want to correct it, is it because the law has achieved the goal you were really pursuing? So we already have the reason why it passed this law that it does not want to correct, and now thousands of citizens wonder why. Why cause so much pain to the victims and their families? You, who came to regenerate political life and run a feminist ministry, ended up rewarding sex offenders and leaving sex offenders on the street. [[Applauds]] And no, here the only sexist thing is your law, Minister, and the touch must be given to you to resign. Dismiss, Mrs Montero, not because the People's Party is asking for it, not because the feminist movement is asking it on the streets, resign for respect for the victims and for dignity. [[Applause.- Various Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: All right!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u151	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u152	Thank you, President. Mrs Prohens, in the opinion of the People's Party, all feminist laws are wrong, but then you set up a few days on trans law, like last Friday, and we discovered that the problem is not that the law is wrong, but that you bring people into this House to say that trans people are sick and that LGBT people are not well. [[Applauds]] I mean, the problem is not that the law is wrong, but that you feminist laws don't like it. They have brought to this House a proposal for criminal reform of the law of the one's own, it does not say anything about comprehensive measures of protection to victims, reparation, prevention, early detection or comprehensive care, which does not have the support of any expert and which, oh, surprise!, what it does is to recover the scheme based on violence and intimidation, a scheme from which all international agencies ask us to flee because, as Adela Asúa says, it supposes a probative calvary that ends up producing a double victimization in women who would not have resisted enough. And to finish, you in that proposal lower the penalties for the victims between sixteen and eighteen years and do not put transitory. So, Your Honor, a little respect. When the law on gender-based violence was passed in 2004, in its first years of application the law had 187 issues of unconstitutionality raised by the courts themselves, so there were many women, hundreds, who were paralysed in the courts. An increase of 158% in dismissals, women who did not receive the appropriate response from the State, because when there is a profound criminal change, there is always a moment of transition. But eighteen years later no one doubts that this law is an unquestionable democratic advance that allows us to better protect women. And the law of only yes does that: allow for the first time that the State can effectively protect all women, that they have specialized psychologist social worker or free legal advice and that their samples can be collected, and all without the need to complain. [[rumors]] I want to remind all women that 016 works for all victims and 24 hours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u153	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u154	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group to the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory on the actions that the Government will take to prevent parties that violate national sovereignty from conditioning the political life of Spain. For your defence, Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[applause.-Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, not to remain in the halls, so that we can continue with the plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u155	Thank you very much, President. Minister, in this urgent inquiry by our VOX Parliamentary Group, what we are asking you, which is on behalf of the Government, is what you intend to do to prevent those who want to destroy national unity by trampling on the Constitution and disregarding the national sovereignty of the Spaniards from achieving their goal. It is terrible that we have to ask this question, this urgent interpellation to a Government of a nation, because it should be understood that its main reason is to prevent the enemies of the nation from achieving their objectives. [[Applauds]] But you, Minister, have been fulfilling the road map marked by the separatists, by the coups, by the enemies of the nation; and you have done so from the first minute; step by step, sitting to sitting. This government was born of the great lie, of the great electoral fraud that was that betrayal and transfer that they made to the enemies of the nation, betraying their own voters, their own voters when they promised the candidate for president in the elections, Pedro Sánchez - who has put you there - who will never deal with those who have blood-stained hands; that he will never deal with those who had given a coup d'état, with those who wanted to destroy Spain; and that he will never and would never be able to sleep peacefully if he deals with those of the ration cards, the communist totalitarians. But he gave in. He gave in to sit there, on the blue bench, and you can sit there. The first major assignment, Minister, I could see it sitting on the benches of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, when the State Attorney's Office was instructed that what was a clear and clear accusation of crime against the Constitution, of rebellion against the coups, of magic, not of assignment to the coups, became, at the stage of prosecution, a charge of the State Attorney's Office of crime against public order, of sedition. We are now beginning to understand this latest reform of the Criminal Code, because they do not want the crime of sedition either. And then, Minister, then what came? Do you remember? Then came judgments from the Second Chamber, and since they could not avoid that condemnation, came the wretched, unworthy and unwarranted pardons, contrary to the law, for each and every one of the condemned. Do you remember who the Minister of Justice was? I'll tell you, Mr. Campos. Does that ring a bell? He is one of the candidates who now want to put in the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] Minister, are we still talking about divestitures? Then came the assignments to the protera. The ETA had to be whitewashed and the Democratic Memory Act created. Well, memory and democracy have nothing, but assignment has a lot. Assignment to the ETA to write the story; yes, the story, because then the Transition is delegitimized, the Crown is delegitimized and tributes to terrorists are favored, of course, scorning and trampling on the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] Then came the assignment to the PNV, minister, remember? Bildu, and PNV. Prison powers had to be transferred so that such health reports could be issued by the Basque Government itself. For what? But what do you think, that we don't realize? Then came the next session, Minister, the approach of prisoners to Basque prisons!, as a step before health reports that allow them to go out to the street through a fraudulent third degree. Minister, then came the divestitures removing any presence from the state. His majesty the king could not hand over the offices to the magistrates of the judicial career in Catalonia. The head of State had to be hidden because he represented national sovereignty, he represented national unity. Therefore, you do nothing for the withdrawal of national teachings and flags in so many public buildings in Catalonia, the Basque Country, Navarre, etc. Why? Because the presence of the State annoys its separatist partners and, therefore, a new assignment. Then came the assignment, that old claim from the fucking terrorist gang ETA, you know what it is, don't you? That the Navarra Civil Guard had to be removed. New assignment to proletarian separatism. Then came new assignments. How is it that the National Director of the CNI dares to investigate our coup partners?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But where did this come from? In what rule of law is information services allowed to investigate those who want to commit very serious crimes and make coups d'état?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It was immediately ceased!, and in addition, the CNI was instructed in no way to dare to investigate those who give coups d'état or those who prepare them, or violent RCDs or groups declared by various courts as terrorist groups linked to separatism. Information services aren't for that, no. According to you, of course. New assignments. Absolute unprotectiveness to Spanish. Of course, that the judgment of the Supreme Court ratifies the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that protects that vast majority of Spaniards who want to educate their children in the mother tongue, the common language, minister, the common language, Spanish, at least in that miserable 25%, when their partners, from the Generality, approve that decree that prevents schooling in Spanish, you do not resort to it, you do absolutely nothing! These assignments we see here every day. Do you remember, Minister? The University law, you've got it on the agenda. You have to turn off the Spanish. Do you remember the Sports Act, also dealt with in this House? International competitions must be allowed to go to the national selections of the autonomous communities as if they were countries. Do you remember the railway law, also dealt with in this House? It is that we could list all the laws, because in all there is the tuff of the assignment to the enemies of Spain. [[Applauds]] I told him that if he remembers, Minister, the railway law, which also has it on the agenda, because I know he has them all pointed out. In the morning you tell them what to do and then you come here and do it. Under the railway law, infrastructure of general interest, which has been attached to the national rail network of ADIF or Renfe for centuries, can be decommissioned and delivered on a tray to the autonomous governments, dismembering a basic national transport infrastructure. And so we could follow law after law, assignment after assignment, minister. Are we talking about the Court of Auditors? Do you remember that assignment? They called him on the phone and said, "Don't forget, we have opened a file, a very serious case in the Court of Auditors for misappropriation of public funds, the money fund of all Spaniards. The coupts diverted money, minister, from all the Spaniards, and there was an open case in the Court of Auditors. And what did your government order in a new assignment? That the State Advocate did not file in time and form the corresponding claim, and it was filed. New assignment to collapsing. Are we still talking? Are we still talking, Minister? We have seen it here a few days ago, general state budgets to the dictate of the PNV, of Bildu, of Republican Squerra, to the dictate. By the way, remember what Otegui said? Well, it's worth supporting some budgets if this allows us to bring our killers closer to the Basque Country. And those budgets plagued and plagued with departures, of money to favor the coup-makers, those who hate Spain, for example, with the embassies abroad, which are a new sign of contempt for that exclusive competence of the State that is foreign policy. You allow them to discredit the state and to speak as if Catalonia or the Basque Country were nations, Galicia also do not want to forget the Galician embassies. Or when you use TV3, for example, that machinery of hatred and propaganda at the service of Catalan separatists, which you also water in budgets. And so, Minister, cession after cession after cession in these general state budgets. The last payment we all know has been political today: the crime of sedition had to be repealed, that general amnesty covered by the coup. From rebellion, which they did not like, we went to sedition. From sedition we go to crimes against public order. The next thing, Minister - come on, courage, imagination! - is that, instead of a crime, we give you a subsidy for a coup d'état. [[Applauds]] Minister, laugh, but it is the sad reality of what you are doing in Spain; you can laugh and smile, but to the Spaniards it does not make any grace what you are doing, I say it absolutely with regret. [[a Member of Parliament: Very well!]] [[Applauds]] The embezzlement was also another of the divestitures. Since many of its partners are accused or convicted of crimes of embezzlement, penalties had to be reduced. Moreover, by way of an absolutely dantesque procedure, with lightness, premeditation, nocturnality, without presenting it as an organic bill to avoid reports, and doing so as a bill of the parliamentary groups, hurrying and running to see if we do not realize and change the Penal Code so, for the bajini. The last, Mr Minister, is the terrible attack on the rule of law, on the judiciary, through the reforms, which have now been suspended - I say for the time being - by the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court in order, first of all, to ensure that there is no remedy of unconstitutionality - such as those of the states of alarm, which have prospered thanks to VOX - so that you can continue to pass the laws that will please you without a Constitutional Court stopping you and - who knows, Minister, to see if I am imagining too much - to favour a separatist referendum and that there is no Constitutional Court declaring you unconstitutional. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. Minister, do not ask VOX, ask the Spanish people and history, will you do something to prevent the coupsmen, the separatists, those who hate Spain and want to destroy the nation, national sovereignty and the Constitution from achieving their objectives? Or are you going to keep scrubbing that road map that leads us to suicide? It is a pity, Minister, that we are here to denounce it and soon, in the ballot box, the Spanish people to put a stop to it. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. Then I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u157	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. I believe in the usefulness of Parliament, although listening to some speeches, because one has doubts, but I believe in the usefulness of Parliament as a place of public debate in which we can not only push public policies, but also, from different ideological points of view, face reality. So, if I may, what I will do in this inquiry is an effort to explain to you - which I know you understand with difficulty - that this Parliament and this House which you see is Spain; that when you say here that you are speaking on behalf of the Spanish people, I regret to say that you represent a little more than 10% of the Spanish people; that the Spanish people are represented by this House, each and every one of the deputies who are part of Congress, everyone and everyone! [[applause]] Therefore, even if your intervention is not an example of calm or an example of too democratic terminology - because this talk of the enemies of Spain, do you want me to tell you what it reminds us of? I am sure you know it as well as I do - in this context, I will make a reasonable and reasonable effort to explain what we are doing from the government, and also to explain the agreements we have reached in this House. You are concerned about issues that are fortunately already overtaken. Catalonia and the political situation in Catalonia was the main problem of the Spanish according to the CIS in 2017, the main, the first, and sometimes the second. Now that problem is placed by the Spaniards, whom all of you represent - you are a little over 10%, but the House in its entirety represents the Spanish people - in position number forty-five of your concerns, forty-five. This, Your Honor, has been the result of a policy of understanding, of dialogue, of building bridges. We know what was the result of the policy that the People's Party set in motion when it was in government, and that you pulled - in fact, it got you fattened as a political party and have the representation you now have - the territorial conflict. You live not only with normality, but I would say to you that almost with joy there is a territorial conflict in our country so that you can try to cast votes in other places than Catalonia. Therefore, acknowledge the policy that the Spanish Government has done in Catalonia, acknowledge that this policy has worked, acknowledge that today the sovereignist process has ended, and it has ended not because the government says it, that we say it, but because the independence leaders say it. And you know what we've done? Useful and intelligent policy, unlike other policies that they did was to throw gasoline into the fire of the territorial conflict in Catalonia. This for you, who are so concerned about the unity of Spain, should be a source of joy. But you are not happy that there are no territorial conflicts in Spain, but you are glad that there are those conflicts in order to try to catch some vote outside Catalonia. Of course, I am not going to be found in this rostrum, in this House, ever in that mud with which you are committed to staining all politics in Spain. They'll never find me. I could answer, one by one, the entire catalog of falsehoods that you've been defacing from this rostrum, a catalog of falsehoods that will pass to the anthology of lies. You say the Civil Guard will no longer be in Navarre. With the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez, there are three hundred more civilian guards in Navarre, and what they are not going to do is deal with the traffic!; by the way, an agreement reached by Mr Aznar in 2000. Therefore, when you come here and to substantiate your political position what you do is to distort reality, you will agree with me that some argumentation problem has your speech, because it is based on falsehoods, pure falsehoods. You have also criticized here the judgment of the second chamber of the sovereignist process. To you, who is very clear what the charge was - in fact, it was part of that charge - I have to say that the Second Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court considered the crimes to be others, not the ones you defended. But he comes here to criticize the judgment and to say against wind and tide that you were right and that the Supreme Court did not have it. And so a long et cetera of falsehoods that you have poured into this rostrum, such as that of national selections and many others. What we are going to continue to do in the remaining year - how long the four years of the legislature have been done to them; the longer the next four are going to be done to them, I'm telling you; but how long, how long have they been done to them! - is to establish agreements. Parliament, I repeat, is Spain, this House is Spain, and what the Spanish voted for is the most fractional Congress of Deputies in history. And we, of course, have had to agree with different political forces to take forward initiatives, to bring out laws, to make Spain move forward, so that at a time of difficulty, as was the pandemic or as it is now, with a war at the gates of the European Union, what we do in our country from the government is to protect citizens, always with their vote against and with the vote against the right, because, as I say so many times, you are essentially interchangeable, you are against all the progress of our democratic society, and that is noted. But we, to the deal, to get deals. We have already managed to adopt 183 legislative initiatives in this House, but this week they are going to pass more. Look, the Sports Act, which you fake in this atrium, is finally passed in this Congress this week. The balance sheet of the legislature, I regret to tell you, is very positive for the Spaniards; the same for the right and the right is not, but for the Spaniards it is. During the pandemic, we were able to protect 3.6 million jobs. Do you remember when you were talking about mass layoffs and mass ERW? Well, it was fake. What we did was protect the workers, protect 3.6 million workers. Instead of losing jobs, as sure as it would have happened with a right-wing and far-right government, what was achieved was to protect them, and when companies overcome the economic difficulties, they were able to return to their jobs. But we help the self-employed with a cessation benefit, we help the companies with direct aid, we help the Spanish citizens to spend a time of difficulty, as was the pandemic. You will remember another tragedy that we had to address, as was that of the volcano of the island of La Palma. We also helped, with more than 500 million euros, that island of La Palma, which has never been so close to the hearts of the Spaniards and never so close to the Peninsula. We did it, of course, with your vote against, because you are against what it is to protect or what it is to help; you to your own, but we to our own, which is to govern for people, to protect citizens and to do so when there are more difficulties. You are also against the aid we have put in place, for example, in the field of fuels. You have also criticised the negotiation made by the President of the Government in Brussels, with an Iberian exception. Do you remember Mr. Feijoo talking about the Iberian thymus? What an opportunity to have let silence win the game, because what he called the Iberian thyme finally represents the model of the whole European Union to face a deorbited price of gas. [[Applauds]] It has therefore assumed that the bill for light can be lowered and, therefore, it has assumed that today Spain is the country of the European Union and of the eurozone that has the lowest inflation, thanks to the policies of the Government of Spain; listen well: thanks to the policies of the Government of Spain, today we have the lowest inflation in Europe. Of course, with your vote against; that is neither necessary nor necessary. They also voted against the general state budget, because, of course, 6 out of 10 euros went to social investment, social policies. You are in other things, but we are in protecting and caring for the citizenry. You are also opposed to including in these budgets the largest share of scholarships in history, I repeat, the largest share of scholarships in history, and a specific share for primary care in public health, that public health where the right or the right rule deteriorates every day with its policies. I'll tell you something I think you'll be interested in. You are making a very tough speech on the amendment of the Criminal Code, to Europeanize, by the way, because it will seem to you that the Spanish Criminal Code, which was in force in 2017, is exemplary, but the truth is that it is not recognized by any European court, by the Italian courts, by the Belgian courts, by the French courts, by the Germans and by the Court of Justice of the European Union, the ECJ. Something was going on with the Spanish Penal Code, wasn't it? What was happening was that it was not homologated to the rest of Europe; what was happening was that it was absolutely disproportionate to the rest of Europe; what was happening was that the People's Party made a reform in 2015 that drove us away from Europe, and what we have done has been Europeanizing. This issue matters to you very much and therefore makes it the main point of your intervention, but it draws my attention to the fact that, being so important to you, what you call on the Constitutional is that the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional is unlocked; that is, when assessing what is important, for you the important thing is that the Constitutional Court is blocked, with a conservative majority. That's the important thing. The other, well, is accessory, however much you try to give great importance in your interventions. I finished my first surgery. We're doing politics for the social majority. We are, of course, doing so with other parliamentary groups. We do so through agreement, through understanding, through seeking solutions that are consensual to achieve majorities in this Parliament, and we do so, without any doubt, unlike the right and the right, within the Constitution and within the law, and we do so because the Socialist Party - I remind you - was a founding party, creator of the Spanish Constitution, and that is why we will always defend Spain, we will always defend it; we will defend it from those who want to break it and also from those who want to divide it, like you. That is why the Socialist Party is a guarantee of coexistence, understanding and the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you have started your speech by saying that you believe in Parliament, in parliamentarianism. Really? Why did they close this Parliament so that we could not control their fraudulent, declared, alarm states thanks to VOX, in-cons-ti-ti-cio-in-the-em? Why is your mouth filled by saying that you respect Parliament if you are then willing to hand it over to those who just don't believe in anything that comes out of this Parliament, because they want to set up their separatist sovereign parliaments? [[Applauds]] You then said, Minister, that this Parliament represents Spain. Man, let me do a math, represent the Legislative Power, Spain is much more. There is also a judicial power, which is not in here, and an executive, to which this Parliament should control, although unfortunately, as you, together with the People's Party, have devoted yourselves to carrying out any kind of division of powers, this Parliament has no real capacity to control the different executives. But Spain is much more. Spain is his story. Spain is millions of Spaniards who, because of people like you, do not feel represented in this House, because you have created an absolute separation between fiction and real politics; Spain which is in the fields, in the markets, in the workshops, in the queues of unemployment, that Spain, the real Spain, which is cold because of its negationisms and its policies of absolute climate fanaticism at the expense of foreign powers, that Spain which is cold or cannot put air conditioning by its policies does not feel represented in this Parliament. [[applause]] You say that we are committed to repeating over and over again that there is a very serious problem, a very serious threat and a very serious risk of breaking up national unity. But do you think there's only one Spanish, including you, who doesn't see it? He says that this problem - as you have defined it - of separatism, of Catalans, of so-called Catalan leaders has already been overcome. You said, "It's been overtaken." But who told you that? Otegi? Ruffian? Because they are achieving their goals through Moncloa, through conditioning the Government of Spain. [[The Lord]] Minister, you say, and you boast, because we have heard it here many times and we have heard it from Sánchez, who, thanks to you, was able to protect many workers in the pandemic. How many? It will be for those who did not stay on the road, unfortunately, because of their negligence, for those who did not lose their lives because you were unable to put the sanitary means in time, because you dedicated yourselves to denying reality, and when we had it on, it was late for many of them. Are you referring to the thousands who lost their jobs by fraudulent states of alarm in which you forbade them from exercising their work? Because you decided that only certain jobs were essential, as if bringing bread home was not essential for every worker. [[Applauds]] You have repeated, Minister, in the speeches preceding this inquiry and in your own reply to the inquiry, between sixteen and eighteen times the word ultra-right. Then you are those of the talent, those of the tone, the educated gentleman, the minister. [[Laughter]] I'd be very easy to get up here and answer one by one to those seventeen times. It would suffice me to say that, speaking of ultras, high treason is what you represent; the ultra futility to solve the problems of Spain is what you represent; the ultra cowardice to confront the enemies of Spain is what you represent. [[a Member of Parliament: Very well!]] [[Applauds]] In short, they represent the ultra-left very well. But do you know what's going on? That what concerns us are the problems of Spain, not what you are. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u160	Thank you. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. I see you don't like us calling your party ultra-right. What do you want us to call them? What are you guys? Aren't they the extreme right in this country, aren't they the extreme right? Are you guys downtown now? Let's see if they're going to be the cowardly far right at this point. [[Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco: VOX]] [[Several Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: No]] [[Applauds]] You have used your five minutes of replica again to tell things that are not true. As you well know, not only was this Parliament not closed, but it was the Parliament in which there were more appearances by the President of the Government and the ministers. [[Applauds]] If you want me to give you examples of a regional parliament that was closed, where you, the far right, had the majority with the People's Party, like the Madrid Assembly. That one did shut down. It's completely closed. [[Applauds]] There was parliamentaryism here, there was debate and there was clear discussion between different political positions. I have also drawn a great deal of attention in your speech to the fact that you consider that national sovereignty does not exist here. [[Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco: You didn't say that.]] Yeah, yeah. I repeat: this Parliament is precisely Spain, because national sovereignty resides here. There are other powers of the State, such as the Judiciary, which is so and which, by the way, says the Constitution emanating from the people, but national sovereignty resides in these General Courts. I therefore believe that you should be clear about this, because this is where the Spanish and Spanish, with their vote, decide who we represent. You have a little over 10% of the votes of the Spanish and Spanish, and therefore you cannot speak on behalf of the Spanish people and much less, as you have also said, on behalf of history. It will be the blackest story in our country, in the name of the only story that you, the far right, can speak of in this House. You continue with your speech with very old reminiscences, of very outdated stages. He speaks of foreign powers; you have failed to say the perfidious Albion. This speech that you are trying to inoculate in Spanish society, which is a speech of confrontation, of hatred, of which we do not make a useful policy, is simply unacceptable to a Democrat, unacceptable; confrontation with other sovereign countries, with us, among Spaniards, between autonomous communities. Therefore, what I ask you, since they are not ultras, is that you foster coexistence in our country, that you recognize the diversity of our country, the territorial and also the ideological. That will be a first step to stop being ultras and we won't have to call it that. With this Government, the Constitution is fulfilled. Not in Genoa 13, where you continue to violate every day the Constitution and the law, thrown away by you, of course, and not renewing the General Council of the Judiciary, but except in that village where the violation of the Constitution, which is Genoa 13, is the seat of the People's Party, thrown away by the far right and thrown away by the high center, today the Constitution is fulfilled in all the territories of our country, in all, like it or not like it. You - not you, but in this case the right, the People's Party - were unable to enforce the Constitution in Catalonia with the laws of disconnection and illegal referendums, but also with the Ibarretxe Plan a few years earlier in Euskadi. We enforce the Constitution, and the only ones that violate the Constitution are you, the bench of the right and the extreme right, when you do not renew the General Council of the Judiciary. You, in particular, when talking about the Constitution, remember those things that you want to repeal the Constitution, which you have said publicly. You want to end, for example, the state of autonomy. One VOX deputy tells me that no and another VOX deputy that yes; agree, to see if you want to end the state of autonomy or not. [[Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco: Reforming, not ending]] I think they need internal debate, because some say yes with their heads and others do not. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Yes, yes, you debate, you debate, because it was you. One said yes and another said no. Well, when you agree, you tell us if you want to end the state of autonomy. You say we don't protect the workers. Look: 3.6 million ERTE to protect workers in times of difficulty. Today we have the highest figure in the history of Social Security affiliates: 20.5 million Social Security affiliates. [[Applauds]] Moreover, a job with rights, without precariousness; a job reform to which, of course, you voted against. So, we're going to keep working, we're going to keep reaching agreements, and we're going to keep making our country better every day. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY ON THE INSTITUTIONAL CRISIS PROVIDED FOR BY THE GOVERNMENT'S ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES IN RELATION TO CONSTITUTIONAL BODIES, THE TERRITORIAL STRUCTURE OF THE STATE AND THE CRIMINAL REFORMS TO REDUCE THE GREAT DETERMINATION OF DEFINITIONS. [[File number 172/000261]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u163	We turn to the urgent appeal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group to the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, on the institutional crisis caused by the actions and initiatives of the Government in relation to the constitutional bodies, the territorial structure of the State and the penal reforms to reduce the seriousness of certain crimes. For your defence, Mrs. Arrimadas García has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bolaños, I invited you to participate in an interesting exercise. I'm going to read you political phrases and you have to tell me if you think it's a separatist politician or a socialist politician. [[Rumors]] First sentence: I refuse to accept as normal that the Constitutional Court should tell us what this Parliament can vote on. Socialist or separatist? Separatist: Mrs. Carme Forcadell. Second sentence: I hope that the Constitutional Court will not prevent this Parliament from doing its job. Separatist or socialist? Socialist, indeed: Mr Patxi López. Third sentence: The Constitutional Court cannot paralyze the actions of the Courts. Socialist or separatist? Socialist, Mr Bolaños: yourself. Fifth sentence, referring to appeal to the courts: It is the new version of 'everybody on the ground'. Socialist or separatist? Separatist: Mr. Jordi Turull. And finally, the phrase: In the 23F they wanted to stop the Plenary with tricorns and today they do it with robes. Socialist or separatist? Socialist, indeed: Mr Felipe Sicilia. [[The Rumors Continue]] Look, this would be fun if it weren't dramatic, because it shows the degradation you've been subjected to in the Socialist Party. Do I need to give you more examples to see that you have brought the Catalonian process out of the Catalonian Parliament to the Congress of Deputies and the Government of the Generalitat to the Government of Spain? Do we need more examples, Mr. Bolaños? You no longer compromise with separatism, you imitate them, you follow them, you do the dirty work, you do the work of separatism from the Government of Spain. Mr Sánchez said today that the separatist process is over. Of course, because the sanchist process has begun from the Government of Spain, which is much more harmful, much faster and much more effective for separatism, which is that you do the dirty work from the Government of Spain. [[applause]] Of course, the separatist process has ended, because it has been overcome by sanchism and the sanchist process. Look, you've taken the speeches of 2017 separatism and translated them into Spanish. You are doing absolutely the same thing, and before you come up here and tell me that we attack democracy and that we do not let it be debated in Congress, etc., think that the Socialist Party of Catalonia in 2017 did exactly what we are doing now. It is true that we had to throw them a little bit and trail them, but they went to the Constitutional Court for amparo without waiting for the laws to be passed. [[Mr Zaragoza Alonso: Liar!]] [[Protests.-Mr Zaragoza Alonso: That's a lie! Suspend a deal!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u165	Quiet, please. Mr. Zaragoza, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u166	You even left the Parliament of Catalonia not to vote, nor did you vote in the Parliament of Catalonia for the shame it gave you at the time. That's what you did in 2017 the same ones you read now to Pedro Sánchez doing the same thing that separatism is doing. [[Rumors]] Because you don't have any principles! [[Applauds]] You've lost them on the way. The last time the Socialist Workers and Spanish Party was acting as a state party was in 2017, when they left the Parliament of Catalonia with us, when they appealed to the Constitutional Court for protection, when they denounced the barbarities that were made in those bad days and when they declared 155. From there, there is no more Socialist Workers and Spanish Party, nothing more than there is a Sanchist Party, because you are no longer socialists, you are simply Sanchists. [[Applauds]] That's what happened to them. Look, this isn't about a legal debate of constitutional law professors, it's not just that. Do you know what happened in Catalonia in 2017 when governments started questioning judges, when governments started attacking the opposition? Do you know what happened? [[The Rumors Continue]] That there was social division, company flight, broken families and economic ruin for Catalonia. And that's what you're willing to do in Spain so long as Pedro Sánchez stays in power. Look, you come here and you say that separatism is very quiet, that they no longer declare independence, that they no longer make illegal referendums. Well, of course, if you don't need it. I've told you many times, thieves don't pop windows when you give them the keys to the front door. But do you know what's going on in Catalonia that you guys cover? That families are being pointed out for asking for education in Spanish. It is that there are linguistic fines for labelling in Catalan, it is that from the public media it is insulted to more than half Catalonia, it is that it is expelled from small villages from the interior of Catalonia to civil guards and national police and it is pointed out to their children in the school. It's just that that's still happening in Catalonia and you're complicit in it happening and hiding, and that's not going to have forgiveness in the history of Spain. What is to be expected, Mr Bolaños, after these gentlemen made a coup d'état a long time ago and publicly announced that they want to do it again, the expectation of a Spanish government is that you will strengthen the state, put more mechanisms in place so that these gentlemen will not even try. But do you know what you have done to the contrary? You know very well, Mr. Bolaños, because you're the grinder of all this. You know what? I think many Spaniards imagine the conversation you had with Mr. Pedro Sánchez. I think many of us imagine that Mr. Pedro Sánchez would call you and say, "Félix, we need to stay in Moncloa at least until the end of the legislature." Talk to Esquerra, tell them to tell you what they need to do and do whatever it takes. [[Rumors]] And you'd ask him, "Whatever it is, Mr. President?" And Sanchez would say, "Whatever it is, Felix, whatever it is." And you would pick up the phone, call Mr. Oriol Junqueras and say, "Oriol, what do you need to support our budgets and give us parliamentary majority until the end of the legislature?" And Mr. Oriol Junqueras would say to him: Man, Felix, get us out of jail; man, Felix, we changed the Penal Code so that when we do it again we don't have to go to court, not go to jail, no, nor go to court. [[The Rumors Continue]] Man, Felix, what you have to do is control the Constitutional Court so that when we do the referendum you are going to give us, they declare it constitutional. And you'd hang up the phone and say, "Ostras, and how do we do this without the opposition on us, without the media telling us that we're doing this, without the judges preventing it?" [[The Rumors Continue]] I have an idea, I'm going to take the speeches of 2017 separatism, I'm going to translate them into Spanish and we're going to start attacking the opposition, the judges and the media that don't support us. And that's exactly what you're doing. Unfortunately, I'm sure the conversation was very similar to what I'm saying here today. You, Mr. Bolaños, you don't believe what you're saying, do you? You don't think once you have a parliamentary majority you can do what you want in the Congress of Deputies? Don't you believe that, Mr. Bolaños? Do you really believe that you can skip all the procedures to change three organic laws through the back door, without preceptive reports, without appearances and without the set deadlines? You don't believe that, do you? Don't you think that resorting to amparo is attacking national sovereignty? That you don't say national sovereignty, you've already been stuck with the Puemite discourse, now it's popular sovereignty for you. You don't believe him, do you? Or do you think that your 2017 Socialist Party colleagues, who filed an amparo appeal, are anti-democratic slices that want to gag the Parliament of Catalonia? Do you really think so, Mr. Bolaños? Or is it that the degradation of sanchism is such that you are able to do what you know is harmful to Spain, but it doesn't matter to you because it is good for Pedro Sánchez? [[Applauds]] Look, you have an obsession, and it's controlling the Constitutional Court, because it has to endorse your misdemeanours, because it has to allow you to settle in power, because it has to validate the referendum of independence in Catalonia. [[rumors]] That's why they're doing everything they're doing. Look, do you know what a government that defends Spain should do instead of Pedro Sánchez's chair? Call, if you like, Mr. Oriol Junqueras and say, "Look Oriol, do you want to do it again? For we are going to stop it again, and when you do it again, instead of being sedition it is going to be rebellion; and when you do it again, the penalties and sentences are going to be much more severe for embezzlement; and when you do it again, where there was in Catalonia a civilian guard and a national police officer now there will be two. What do you want, to remove the police station of Via Laietana? Well, let's do an extension. What do you want? Will the electoral law continue to give you more seats than you deserve? Well, we're going to eliminate your overrepresentation. What do you want? Maintaining the linguistic immersion that points to families and violates children's rights? Well, let's reinforce the high inspection. That is what a Spanish government should do, defending Spain and not an unscrupulous president! [[Applauds]] You repeat the speeches of separatism of 2017, and I have to tell you that I am repeating the speeches of 2017 because it is all you deserve. Mr. Rufián said the other day: The last time I heard Mrs. Arrimadas speak like this our comrades ended up in prison. No, no, I didn't put them in jail. I warned them that they were going to prison, and in the end it happened. I warned them that they were going to break Catalonia, and it broke. I warned them that they were going to ruin our land, and they ruined it. That is why, just as in 2017 I say to you, Mr Bolaños, textual words I said to Mr Puigdemont: It will not work for you because Spain is much stronger than you think. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think it would be very good, and the Spaniards would appreciate it very much, that the tone of the debate, as it were easy to say, did not look like what you just used; that is, that it was a polite, calm tone. [[Protests.-Mr.Hispan Churches of Ussel: Are you going to force us?]] And let it be, if possible, a real story and not a science fiction story like you came to this rostrum to tell. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Clearly, you are an ultra center game, there is no doubt, and your tone has made it manifest. There is also a second thing that has become apparent and is that you were stopped by the clock in 2017. His speech ended in 2017. [[Applauds]] They have not been able to get up from there and continue to do an analysis of Catalan society and Spanish society, which are those of 2017. Of course that was a confrontation and there was an unbearable tension. Of course! Of course, the law and the Constitution were not complied with. Of course I do! And that's why the courts intervened, of course they did! Of course there were companies that came out terrified of the situation that had been created in Catalonia, of course they did! But, Mrs Arrimadas, if the first thing we are saying - very deeply disparaging from the Constitutional Court's decision - is that we must abide by that decision of the High Court, of the interpreter of the Constitution, considering that this decision is absolutely unusual in the history of democracy in our country, of the General Courts and of any European democracy that can be approved by the Spanish. I'm sorry to tell you that in your science fiction story reality doesn't correspond to what you say. It's that simple! You come here and show us that you can continue to deliver a speech of 2017, calling for confrontation, calling for tension, seeking all kinds of conflicts, when today Spain of 2022 is precisely overcoming the territorial conflict in Catalonia. And it is doing so - it was said before to the representative of the far right and I repeat it now to the representative of the ultra center - because in 2017 it was the first concern of the Spaniards and today it is the concern number forty-five of the Spaniards. Something will have to do with a policy of understandings, of agreements, of weaving affections and complicitys within our country, within Spain. [[Applauds]] That is why the Constitution and the law are being complied with in Catalonia today. The only place where the Constitution is not fulfilled is at the headquarters of the People's Party, which continues to block every day the General Council of the Judiciary, blocking the Constitutional Court and demonstrating with its words and facts that the Constitution does not go with them. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] By the way, thrown by you, the high center. If you really were a liberal party, a moderate party, a European party, you would be appalled by what the People's Party does, blocking every day the General Council of the Judiciary and the renewal of the Constitution, because the Constitution says that the judges of the Constitution are for a period of nine years. The Constitution does not say that it is a period of nine years more than the People's Party wants. No, no, nine years, that's what the Constitution says. It is therefore surprising that you are praising those behaviours of the People's Party, which are very high in the Constitution and completely anti-democratic. [[Applauds]] I'm telling you what I was saying to your colleague Edmundo Bal a few minutes ago in this very House. You, as a deputy democratically elected by the Spaniards, should be concerned that there will be an order from the Constitutional Court during the parliamentary process, because also in that your account was of science fiction when compared to what happened in Catalonia. The honourable Member, Mr Zaragoza, has made this very clear to him. [[Rumors.-Mrs. Arrimadas García utters words that are not perceived]] Nothing to see! The parliamentary handling of these General Courts - because national sovereignty resides here - is sacred. That is why neither in forty-four years of democracy nor in any European country in our environment has what happened this week with that resolution of the Constitutional Court. And you, as a Member, should be affected. You should think that your work as a parliamentarian should not suffer any interference from any power other than the Legislature. That's what you should be worried about. But it has not done so, it has held that resolution, it has seemed very good to it, and let us hope that it will be an exception, that it will be a page of the Constitutional Court - not precisely the brightest - and that it will not happen again because it is an interference in this House to prevent the processing of social progress, of social laws, which have always been dealt with here when there have been progressive majorities. You know - and if you don't know it you can ask your fellow banker, who is a state lawyer - that in Spain there is no previous remedy of unconstitutionality. [[Mrs. Arrimadas García: Appeal for amparo]] It existed until 1985 and was repealed in 1985. And do you know why he got out of the way? To prevent what happened this week from happening. That's why he got out of the way, so there wouldn't be a previous appeal. And, of course, what the Constitutional has to do is to review the constitutionality of the rules once they have been adopted, not during the parliamentary process, because that involves interference between powers. [[Applauds]] And this is the law, this is the law, and this is the reality. That is why state laws cannot be suspended by the Constitutional Court. It is the Government of Spain that decides whether to request the prior suspension, the interim suspension or not. This, Mrs Arrimadas, is the reality, and I like you to talk to Mr Bal and to see that what I am telling you is the law and the history of law in our country. You do very well! [[Mrs. Arrimadas García: That's what you think!- Rumors.-Applause]] And, by the way, I'm very glad what you're talking about, it's good news for your own party as well. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You say that you do not like to have the laws amended in a parliamentary process, which draws my attention because, being a Member of Parliament, you should want to do your parliamentary work to amend the laws, to improve the legislation and to try to ensure that the needs of the country at every moment are covered by the laws that you all dictate. You asked: How can you make an amendment to an organic law through an amendment? And what do you think that during the majority of the People's Party and with Mr Aznar's government the Criminal Code is being amended by amending the Arbitration Act? How about you? You ask me things, I ask you things too. Do you know what the Constitutional Court said and what the right said at the time? As you can imagine, the majority of the People's Party amended the Criminal Code by amending it in the parliamentary process of the Arbitration Act. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: End the sentence!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u169	Quiet, please. Mr. Hispan, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u170	On the right, he does not like us to remind him that what is not good for them when we rule, is good for them when they rule. The law of the funnel altogether is what they try to apply. I ask you another question, Mrs Arrimadas, how do you feel that during the majority of the People's Party, in this case Mr Rajoy's Government, an organic law is being amended to stifle the emeritus king during the process of the civil service law. [[Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel: With you]] How about you? [[A Member of the European Parliament: Fantastic]] Well, as you think it's fantastic, what I'm surprised is that they resort to the Constitution for the same parliamentary procedure. It is clear that it is mathematical: when the right does it to you it seems very good and when a progressive majority does it they use all possible tricks to try to avoid it. As you will, if that door opens, with laws of social advances, because for you, for the right - forgive that it includes the ultracenter at this time on the right - it is the same, because you are against all laws of social advances: the law of abortion, the law of education, the law of euthanasia, labor reform, the law of equal marriage; against all and all. You, the ultra-center, who are not against all of you, however, rejoice when you have managed to get an interference from the Constitutional Court in the parliamentary process of this House, opening a door that for you, for the General Courts, is a door that will be difficult to close. And I'll tell you more. It also draws my attention to other behaviors from the right and the right. Has Mr Feijóo and the People's Party ever explained to you why they consider it so important to continue blocking the renewal of the Council and the judiciary? Because I imagine that you, who with so much enthusiasm leap to the right and to the far right when you block the renewal of the judiciary, will have explained it to you, that you will understand it and that you will share it. Because if not, it is truly strange that a liberal party is in favour of the People's Party failing to comply with the Constitution every day of the year, every day of the year! Did they explain it to you? Why do you support with that enthusiasm that the People's Party tramples on the Constitution every day? Because it's weird, it's weird. You won't tell me no. Have you explained why they also block the renewal of the judges of the Constitutional Court? Have you confirmed that what the People's Party wants is to try to overthrow social laws that pass the progressive majority in this House? That's what the People's Party wants. What are you guys doing there? What are you guys doing there? The People's Party is going to resort to all laws to expand the rights of the LGBTI collective, women's rights, abortion,egalitarian marriage, and now, with this door, it can even prevent them from being passed in its parliamentary process in this House. Tell me, what's the ultra center doing there? Can you explain it to me? Because it is clear the benefit of the right and the right with this blockade of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court, but what do you have? It's just that I think this is a very pertinent question because, to me that the ultra-right - with forgiveness - supports the right in this seems normal to me, but I find it strange that the ultra-center is there, so I ask. In any case, I tell you that the Government - and, of course, with the parliamentary groups - will take all the initiatives necessary to comply with the law, to comply with the Constitution and to release the Constitutional Court once and for all. And I also tell you, Mrs. Arrimadas, that if you were a center party you support them, but, unfortunately - your speech has made it clear - at this time you are not, you are a non-center party and you are a party anchored and with the clock stopped in 2017. And it's unfortunate, because at some point you could mean a different thing, but today you don't mean it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u171	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs. Arrimadas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bolaños, you devote much of your speech to saying what we have to be, what we have to do and how we have to stand before many issues. Let it be clear to you that the further we move away from the ideological drift of this sanchist government, the more center, the more liberal and more progressive we will be, because you do not give the cards of progressiveism; you have abandoned what is absolutely reasonable and logical for a Social Democratic party, because you are no longer socialists, you are simply sanchists. [[applause]] And as I see you very interested in our things and our internal issues, I ask you, please, to leave us alone, that everything you touch will ruin it. [[Laughter]] As far as I am concerned, my party is not going to be used to whitewash the last few months of the legislature, let alone extend this Frankenstein government. I'm just telling you one thing, you're acting like an ultra-sanchist, and I remind you that those who came up here to defend Pedro Sánchez with so much momentum - I can remember Mr. Ábalos, I can remember Mrs. Lastra - didn't even have Mr. Pedro Sánchez's backing. Do you know what we are? We are radically free, free to be able to agree on what we believe is good for our country, to be able to support social progress and promote them, but, of course, also to guarantee economic freedom. You come here and say, "If we're going to abide by the Constitutional Court's ruling. Of course, and they're already in a hurry to control him through the back door with another procedure, so they won't shoot him this time. What do you want to take care of him, a quarter of an hour until they control him? It's a laugh, Mr. Bolaños. And, moreover, it says the same thing as separatism: If the conflict generated it you. Of course, those of us who denounced that they were going to declare independence, that the laws were being jumped and that the companies were going to run away were the ones that generated conflict, weren't we? You're just like the separatists. By the way, Mr Bolaños, do you know what your fellow members of the Socialist Party of Catalonia said in 2017, when they did not even vote in that plenary? In the plenary sessions of 6 and 7 September - long before 1 October, long before the declaration of independence - in which the separatists did the same thing as you did the other day, your colleagues said in text that it was a radical breakdown of democracy and that it was an annihilation of the rights of the Members. What times were those when the deputies of the Socialist Party of Catalonia were as wide as any deputy of Ciutadans or the People's Party. Look, you asked for the suspension of the plenary, you left without a vote and filed an application for amparo with the Constitutional Court. And do you know what Mrs. Batet reminded me of the other day when she left at midnight to defend the government? That the president of Congress has to defend congressional deputies, and it is you who have put a gag on us, it is you who prevent a debate as God commands of an electoral law, it is you who prevent us from having the consultative reports to position us on an organic law and such an important law. It is you who want to make changes in forty-eight hours and it is you who want to make us pass important laws at midnight. Therefore, if there is someone who is putting on a gag, if there is someone who has been interfering in the Congress of Deputies, do not seek anyone out because it is you from the Government of Spain who are causing it. [[Applauds]] And, finally, you're a law graduate? Are you doubting here that a remedy of amparo can be filed and that the remedies of amparo can have precautionary measures? Is that what you came here to question? Let's see who's gonna have to consult with who about legal terms. [[Rumors]] And besides, do you know what's going on? I am very pleased to see that when he goes up to the rostrum he has to devote himself to criticizing the People's Party, to saying that they have divided themselves to the judges, to saying that they did not face nationalism. And you know why I'm happy? Because you are demonstrating the need for Citizens, because none of that can be said to my political formation. That is why you are wishing that Citizens are not, because at times like this you are wishing to pull the argument that you have been using for forty years: that if corruption, that if you have agreed with nationalism, that if you have also distributed to the judges... That's why it's so important Citizens. Do you know what citizens have done that have not been done by the People's Party or the Socialist Party? Go to Europe and meet with Reynders, who is of the liberal family - I have met personally with him - to explain to him the misfortune we have in this country that the two main and old Spanish parties think they should control the judges. That's why we're radically free and we're going to stay free. Finally, all those who have faced Spanish democracy, all those who wanted to destroy or weaken it, have failed, and you too will fail, because governments pass, but the state, and more so the Spanish state, our democracy, our Spain, will prevail. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u174	Thank you, Madam President. It is curious to say that we say what you are and what you are not and yet dare to tell us who we are socialists and who we are not, it is very curious. [[Applauds]] I just tell you that you say you're one thing and you do another, that's what I tell you and I'll always tell you. I have been very drawn to the attention that you have come up to this rostrum to defend the People's Party. It has drawn my attention because, frankly, there are things that the People's Party does that are indefensible, such as trampling on the Constitution every day and blocking the General Council of the Judiciary, every day failing to comply with it. That is why I am drawn to the attention that you have come up here to defend the People's Party. You are faithful followers of the right-wing and the right-wing strategy. Honestly, you will be radically free, but when you fall you always do it on the right and right side. And then, regarding the procedure that has ended with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, he asked: why do you think that ever in an amparo appeal related to the parliamentary handling of a law was declared the most precautionary suspension without listening to the parties? Why do you think this hasn't happened in forty-four years? Do you have any ideas? I mean, do you think that never occurred to anyone? Or do you think it's not provided for in the law anyway? What do you think? Because to appeal against the laws there is the other remedy, which is that of unconstitutionality, which is presented to the Constitutional Court, which has rules of suspension of the very specific laws, for state laws and for autonomous laws. Don't make people commulgate with mill wheels, so citizenship is so worried about what's happened this week, because it's a door to prevent this House from doing its job and making and enacting social progress laws. Because, what, on the right seemed good to him, for example, the law of abortion, the law of education or the law of euthanasia? Why did they not file an application for amparo with a very temporary suspension of these parliamentary proceedings? Well, answer that question and you'll realize what happened this week. I believe that it is compatible with a moderate, European and liberal environment that you go up to this rostrum to criticize the government as opposition that you are, what I think is less compatible is to deny legitimacy to the government that has left the ballot box and that the Spanish have decided. I know that this on the right side doesn't like to hear it at all, that's why I'm going to repeat it once again: Pedro Sánchez won the elections in Spain, won democratically, had the majority of votes of the Spanish and Spanish, and that's why he is president of the Government of Spain. You don't like it, but the Spaniards like Pedro Sánchez as president of the government and that's why you voted for him. I am sorry to remind you, but it is a matter of democracy, the Socialist Party is the majority party, the majority political force in this House because the Spaniards supported us with their vote and did not support you. Of course, opposition can be made, but without 'opupation' of democratic institutions, without blocking them as the right does, without breaching the Constitution, without breaching the law, which is what the People's Party does every day of the year and you are jealous. [[applause]] We could use the interventions here to talk about a country project. To you, who have prophesied so many disasters for Spain - for example that black autumn that we were going to suffer the Spanish - I have to tell you that those who have turned out to be a disaster have been you as prophets, because today we continue to grow at a good pace: yesterday the Bank of Spain renewed the rate of growth of our economy, above 4.5% this year. We are the economy of the eurozone which is going to grow during the year 2023, according to international agencies. We have 20.5 million members, we had never had a higher figure, and we have more social protection network thanks to the laws passed by this Government. More protection, of course, for workers in this country with labour reform, for riders, for women, for all people who need care and protection in a society, and that is what we do from a social democratic perspective, because we are a Social Democratic Government. I would like you to have a project for Spain and not come here to make a science fiction story, to disqualify yourself, to deny the legitimacy of this government. I'd like you to have a project for Spain, but I'm sorry to tell you that you don't have it, and that's why the right wing doesn't win the elections in our country, because, beyond the insult, they don't have another project for our country. Legitimacy is won in the ballot box and demonstrated in this House by the parliamentary majority, and if you were at the centre, you would not have to remember it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u175	Thank you very much, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, for the Government to explain the events that have taken place on the border of MELLIA THE ADJUSTMENT OF 24 JUNE IN THE CONSEQUENCE OF THE AVALANCE PRODUCED BY SCIENTS OF PERSONS WHO ENTRY INTO MELLY, AND THE INFORMATION APPROVED IN PRESS ON THE CIFRA OF FALLECIDS AND HERITAGES WHICH SUBMIT A HIGHER CIFRA TO THE DATA PROVIDED BY THE MINISTER. [[File number 172/000262]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u176	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to have the Government explain the events on the Melilla border last June 24th as a result of the avalanche produced by hundreds of people trying to enter Melilla and the press reports on the number of dead and injured who claim a higher figure than the data offered by the minister. For your defence, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Marlaska, you believed that the controversy over the release of violators with the law of yes and regular to the dictate of the criminals the crimes of sedition and embezzlement were going to cover up and forget their political responsibility for Melilla's tragedy, but it was wrong, there are not enough scandals of sanchismo to hide their political responsibility for lying with twenty-three dead and more than seventy-seven disappeared, not even the assault on the judiciary that they claim at night. [[applause]] Years ago you were a judge who defended the law and the rule of law with dignity, who acted firmly against terrorism. It should then be part of that which his Government and his party call the judicial right. By the way, you are the living proof that it is nothing but a fallacy, sitting in the PSOE government and We can who a few years ago were vocal of the General Council of Judicial Power proposed by another majority. What was your price, Mr. Marlaska, power, fame? What are the thirty coins of silver for which you have betrayed the noble cause to which you served as judge, attacking now and delegitimized the General Council of the Judiciary, of which you were a party? [[applause]] Many Spaniards wonder - we ask ourselves - when did politician Marlaska end up with judge Marlaska? Mr. Marlaska, today we questioned you because in your last appearance your answers were a series of excuses, half-truths and bold lies. Look, according to a survey published by El Español, 72% of Spaniards do not believe their version of Melilla's tragedy. Because he does not believe him, he does not believe his own party: only 34% of socialists believe him. But not only do the Spanish not believe it, neither does the Ombudsman believe its version, neither does Amnesty International nor the NGOs believe its version, neither does the European Commissioner for Human Rights believe its version, nor does the European Parliament believe its version. And, you, in the face of the call to appear in the European Parliament, refuse to go. Almost all the Spanish media that you attack for your research work do not believe your version and all the parliamentary groups represented here in Congress, except the PSOE, do not believe your version. [[The lady]] If no one believes you, why is he still a minister, Mr. Marlaska? Why is he still clinging to the couch, wrapped in scandals and lies? In this country's security policy there is a great gap in border management, a great gap in prison management and a great gap in the management of the best personnel anyone can have on their team, which are police and civilian guards. That void is almost as big as your pride, and only you are responsible. Minister, border protection requires effective policies, combining firmness in the face of violent assaults and humanitarian treatment, for the phenomenon of large-scale immigration. Firmness and humanity, but you have shown that you have neither the one nor the other. It seems that the firmness has dedicated it to retaliate against the civilian guards and police officers who are not happy with it, rather than equipping them with personal and material means to defend the borders in Ceuta and Melilla, seeing that violent and massive jumps are more and more frequent. And humanity understands it only to benefit bloodthirsty ages who do not repent of their crimes and do not have it with the deceased and disappeared immigrants, which you continue to deny today. You claim yourself to be a human rights defender while you hide human deaths on the border of Melilla. You went from self-proclaimed human rights defender and from welcoming the Aquarius for humanitarian reasons to now hiding the deaths and disappearances on the border of Melilla. In your appearance last November 30 you said that Spain is a host country for any asylum seeker who knocks on our doors, but who cannot allow anyone to try to knock them down by force. We can share this statement with you, although these are words that are not subject to the facts. Minister, we are aware by the press that there is a young Sudanese of 24 years who survived the Melilla tragedy on 24 June, who has come to the Spanish embassy in Rabat to seek asylum, claiming religious persecution in his country and fear for his life in Morocco. His father and one of his brothers were killed when he was a teenager in an attack, from which he was seriously injured. After the massacre, he fled his village and took refuge with relatives, but they ended up threatening him if he did not convert to Islam, so he undertook a flight in search of a safe place, until he ended up immersed in Melilla's tragedy. Today, Minister, your life in Morocco is in danger, for reasons that no one is missed, and you, Mr Marlaska, have not yet opened the Spanish door, to which he is urgently and desperately touching. Do something, because if we haven't hit him twice with the door in his nostrils. Are you going to guarantee the right to asylum? What's going to happen to this case, Mr. Marlaska? You, as a minister responsible for border security, have failed us all, and in particular you have failed the members of the Civil Guard and the National Police who face the difficult mission of ensuring Europe's border security. Minister, in Ceuta and Melilla you do not have an action plan, you have no strategy, you have never dealt with it or you have never dealt with it. You improvise every day. His party is the champion of demagogy in this matter. With Zapatero, they installed concertinas and defense systems in the fences of Ceuta and Melilla, they even sent to the Legion, and when they were in the opposition we had to endure shows like that of the socialist deputies exhibiting, with imposture, in this House, pieces of concertina, that same concertina that the socialist government had installed. In the opposition, they appealed to the Constitutional Court the only legal basis for the rejection at the border, which was introduced by a Government of the People's Party. And now, in the government, they use rejection more than anyone else, even with the help of Moroccan forces on Spanish territory. By the way, Minister, after a year's suspension of the Citizens' Security Act, we were urgently called upon to continue this very afternoon with its repeal. Will it repeal the rejection at the border, which is the last instrument of protection of the Civil Guard in Ceuta and Melilla? Are you going to dare that after Melilla's tragedy? Two days after the end of the ordinary session the repeal of the law on citizen security will be processed urgently, so that no one will find out at Christmas. Yeah, I'm repealing it now, when it's more cornered. You, Mr Marlaska, will come to be remembered as the minister who put his political head before the security of the Spaniards; as the minister who, in the face of the lies in the grave tragedy of Melilla, being cornered by all his parliamentary partners, decided to cede and repeal the law of citizen security, leaving abandoned and without instruments to defend the forces and security forces of the State and the Spaniards, all in order to save his political head. He will be remembered as the minister who was saved politically in exchange for leaving a Spain more insecure. You will be saved, but you, by repealing this law, not only seek to unprotect civil guards and national police, but what you and your radical partners seek is to disarm them. With Sanchez and you in the ministry chaos is total. The assaults on the fences are occurring more and more frequently and more violently. The Civil Guard is abandoned, with no troops and no support, and the National Police, too. The cities of Ceuta and Melilla are forgotten by the Government. And border security is relegated to the agenda of his ministry, in which the priorities are other: to please Bildu's partners by bringing terrorists closer; to please the independence partners by withdrawing the Navarra Civil Guard and removing their powers in Catalonia and purging those who are not of their liking, and to hide all that a minister does and does not do, which has become the darkest, most arbitrary and inefficient of all we have had, wrapped in the permanent lie. All the Spaniards ask us a series of questions, which should answer us here today. What is the deal you have with Morocco? Are your lies about Melilla's tragedy the fruit of that pact, Mr. Marlaska? What does Morocco know about you and Mr Sánchez to have to cover Morocco's brutal performance in Melilla? What does Morocco know about you and Mr Sánchez so that Sánchez would immediately say that the Moroccan security forces have been thoroughly employed, that it has been a well organized and perpetrated assault, but also well resolved? Ladies and gentlemen, the cold words of the President of the Government that day are troublingly trying to conceal this tragedy of extraordinary magnitude, with twenty-three dead and seventy-seven missing. Any claim that the truth was not known. And the saddest: what does Morocco know about you and Mr. Sánchez so that it does not even defend the Civil Guard from the recent so serious accusations that Morocco makes about them? Mr. Marlaska, he ends the year and, with him, the little prestige he had left; he ends the year and, with him, his lies. Thus he will be remembered by the Spaniards, as the most lying minister of democracy. You are the political leader of the lies in Melilla's tragedy. You are responsible for lying, and only you can do something to remedy it. First, to acknowledge here today that he lied and apologized to all Spaniards, to apologize to the state security forces and bodies and to apologize to all the families of the disappeared and deceased in the Melilla fence. [[Applauds]] I was one of those deputies who voted for him for the General Council of the Judiciary, for those people who supported Judge Marlaska, not Minister Marlaska, and therefore I sincerely tell him what the second thing he should do: let him occupy his place with capacity and will and let him defend the truth in the face of this tragedy in Melilla. [[several honourable Members: Oh! Oh!]] Today, the People's Party asks, with that same loyalty with which it supported him, [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u178	The Minister for the Interior then has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u179	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Your Honor, in response to the request for an inquiry made to me by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies, I have brought you, Mrs Vázquez, some things that I will bring to you in this plenary. Journal of Sessions of 27 June 2022, where I attend two oral questions at the plenary session of the Congress, one of which was made by his colleague from the Popular Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro. Journal of Sessions of 21 September 2022, where I appear before the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies also to report on the events in Melilla. Document number two, which we'll hand you over later. Journal of Sessions, as I have also said, of 21 September 2022, where I appear before the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies to report on the events also taking place in the fence of Melilla. Journal of Sessions of November 15, 2022, in this case, of the Senate, where I answer an oral question formulated-I am sure you also know him - to his lordship Senator Tellado Filgueira. Journal of Sessions, also of the Senate, of November 22, 2022, in which you will be able to consult the answer to this same question and, in addition, you will be able to see a historical fact, see the person who says he is the spokesman of the Interior speaking in the Senate; I tell him that it is something very unusual. And finally, also the Journal of Sessions of 30 November of the Congress of 2022, where I appear before this very Plenary to report on the events in the face of the appearance of new articles of opinion on this issue. In these five documents you will find an exhaustive and detailed chronology of the events that took place on 24 June. You will find the necessary consistency between the account of the facts, because, simply, there are no others. As much as you, from your prejudices towards me and this Government, as we have seen today in detail, or from your preconceived truth, would have liked the reality to be another, it is not, Mrs Vázquez; it is not. And, as it is not, you will find that the events of June 24 were tragic events that should never have occurred. You will find that what happened, Your Honor, was a violent and intolerable attack on our border, which is the border of the European Union. You'll find that yes, that we had to regret the loss of human lives. It will also find the Government's empathy for the victims and solidarity with their families. He would also find that it had to be regretted that fifty-five officers of the Civil Guard had been injured of various importance, as had been wounded by various members of the Moroccan security forces. And you will find that these are events that happened, mainly, outside our national territory, which is why we did not have to regret that no tragedy took place in our country, because, simply, the Civil Guard acted proportionately to prevent a violent group from entering national territory. No more or less, Your Honor. That's what you'll read, because that's what I've been saying since the same day June 24th and what I'll repeat as many times as necessary, because - I insist - those are the facts and there are no others, no matter how much it weighs. It seems to me that both in your intervention in this inquiry and in all the statements made by the leaders of your party - although I believe that the propagandist and irresponsible words of public office of the People's Party will be massively adjusted the reality of who they are and what they say - it is grave, very serious, Madam President, that they cast doubts on the performance of the Civil Guard, however much they say no, doubts that add to the trajectory of your party. Because, you see, with you every day there were five less agents of the state's security forces and bodies, and Spanish society felt more insecure. With you there were no investments to improve the security of our border infrastructures. We have invested more than EUR 50 million in infrastructure over four years at the borders of Ceuta and Melilla. With you there were no vehicles, no cars, no equipment, no means for our agents to do their work more effectively. With you what there was was a discredited Ministry of the Interior, an irregular use of its means and less resources to protect our streets, our borders. These are his facts, Your Honor, the abandonment and, today, the attempt to discredit the work of the Civil Guard, no matter how much he strives to say otherwise. No other matter can be deduced from the facts you have reported. That's his trajectory: abandonment, cuts and contempt. And you've done it, no matter how much you come here to stand as their spokesperson. Look, you know Mr. Esteban González Pons, right? Do you know him? Sounds like something to you, doesn't it? Well, paraphrasing another illustrious Galician of your party, that gentleman I'm talking about said something as serious as this, and not long ago. Broocomillas. 'It is very serious that wounded and killed are hidden in national territory, that aid and care are denied to those who are dying in our country and that Moroccan gendarmes are allowed to enter Spain to take the wounded and the dead.' That is, the People's Party, by the mouth of its spokesman, and certainly by written suggestion of the person responsible for the Interior, accuses the Civil Guard of three things in these statements, and it cannot be deduced otherwise: first, to conceal information about the wounded and the deceased in our territory; secondly, not to assist the injured persons; and, thirdly, to allow the illegal transfer of the deceased outside the national territory. Your Honor, who do you think you are to talk like this about public employees, to talk like this about the Civil Guard that protects our borders? When are you going to apologize? When are you going to reprimand Mr González Pons's statements, or have you also invented them for me? [[Applauds]] [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: Don't lie!]] Isn't that intercomilada? So bring them, bring them, bring them, write them...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u180	Mr. Hispan.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u181	...and bring that video, because it's three falsehoods, three lies, three insults against our public employees that you said from your headquarters, paid as it was paid, and that you haven't rectified today. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: Lie!]] Make it clear that I, who have been in the public service for more than thirty-five years and in which I will follow, act, of course, in another way; as Minister of the Interior, who I am today, also; as public responsible for the work of the Civil Guard, also; as a person who gave the order to protect our borders when he received a violent attack, too. I'm not going to shut up, and I'm always going to stand in front of the Civil Guard and the State Security Forces and National Police, not behind, as you do, by covering your face, but using them. That will never be done by this Minister of the Interior, but wherever we go, he will obviously go ahead of them, being a pride and an honor to me. They will have me in front of me and, as I told you, the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: Pinocho!]] It is very serious to sow such doubts about the performance of the Civil Guard, and from these expressions one cannot deduce another question - I'm sorry, it is so - how serious and irresponsible it is to manipulate reality and try to confront some institutions with others. You have manipulated reality, as you have done your party since June 24. First, they have denied the government's empathy for the victims, which is a lie, and there's the hemerotec. Secondly, they have twisted the work of such a professional, objective and serious investigation of institutions as the Ombudsman or the Attorney-General's Office. You've practiced that. I give you some examples, and I open quotes: even the Ombudsman says that Marlaska lied. I close quotes. His party's national secretary of interior said that last November 14. On the same day, not me, not my team, in some department of the Government, but the Ombudsman himself says that this is a document more than a month ago, he says that the Secretary-General of the State of Security has given him an answer and says - most importantly - that he had not yet given his opinion on this matter. That manipulation of your Home Ruler is still on social media. You're also manipulating talking about video concealment, Your Honor. I know that you, who have been a professional policy for a long time, as you have said, may not know something that is normal and common: in an investigation it is normal for anyone who investigates to ask for more information - it is something normal -. And the requirements were met, as it has done with Parliament, specifically with this House: in addition to four appearances, in addition to five oral questions, in addition to hundreds of written questions to the Government, the members of the Interior Commission, like you, were in the Command of the Melilla Civil Guard, at the border post, where they were given the precise explanations. If you didn't hear all of them at that time, maybe it was because you preferred to be away for a moment and leave the head of the Civil Guard and go do some demonstrations. That is the case, as well as that the videos were made available to the Commission on the Interior, with eight hours of recording, the whole recording, and you also decided to be absent or not to see them in their entirety. It's your right. Its drift and that of its party - I tell you again - is worrying. You've been trying to discredit this Ministry of the Interior team for weeks, but using the state security forces and bodies of the Civil Guard in a sound way. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]] That's right. Also last week he tried to do something as serious as trying to undermine the legitimacy of the Spanish Government. You are really irresponsible, you are dedicated to practicing the policy of burned land, that the only thing you do is miserably debate and the normal functioning of the institutions. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. For you it is all right, whether to deny the democratic and parliamentary legitimacy of the Government, to block the functioning of the constitutional bodies or to question the actions of the Civil Guard, which - I insist - was impeccable, professional and absolutely proportionate.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u182	You have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u183	I'm done, President. Thank you. You, in your second turn, in the reply, have the obligation - I understand - to give explanations about your insidiaries towards the forces and security forces of the State, but, above all, you have the opportunity to abandon that improper attitude of a party that is said to be a State and to shelter itself in democratic values - they are losing them more and more - and constitutional in a policy such as the border, which should also be a State. But for you that no longer exists. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u184	Mrs Vazquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Grand-Marlaska, the only one you have to explain here is you, not the Member of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That's what we're asking you for. He brought me five documents, five documents that I have, underlined and studied, which you should not have done, and in the five you lie. Five o'clock! And, look, yours are opinion articles, not research articles, the ones that dismantled your lies, and now you're trying to denigrate the media and the people you've been working on. You have a capacity to lie and not to change worthy of recognition, truly, worthy of recognition! You're the only one who used and you're using the Civil Guard not to face Melilla's tragedy. [[Applauds]] You're the only one who's put the future of the Civil Guard in Bildu's hands. What lessons will you give me, Mr Marlaska, when you have just betrayed the Civil Guard in Navarre and when you are going to take away expertise in the field of explosives and maritime safety in Catalonia? What lessons will you give, Mr. Marlaska? You are not aware of the ridiculousness that you have done and that you continue to do today with your lies about Melilla's tragedy. After his last appearance, he managed to get all the national media, that is, all the media, to say that you lied. It's on the record. Mr Marlaska, indeed, seeing how you behave, I have come to the conclusion that, probably without knowing it, Sánchez appointed the right person to be the Minister of the Interior of his Government. You have perfectly fit into the profile of a politician without values and without scruples, of a leader with as much ego as ambition as Mr. Sánchez, of an executioner who has no reservations about doing what his leader expects at every moment and to whom nothing hinders him to prove who is the one who has the power. He's lying again today. He has been lying since June, simply to hide and cover up Morocco's aggressions in Melilla and Spanish territory, and on top - I see him laughing - he does not get that cynical smile that he has when I intervene or every time we remember him in the Chamber. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Ms. Cantera de Castro utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u186	Mrs Zaida, please don't ask the Presidency. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u187	And, Mr. Marlaska, are you going to defend the Sudanese youth's right to asylum? Yes or no? Or are you going to knock the door again, Mr. Marlaska? Mr Marlaska, the lie in democracy is unacceptable. That is why I announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will present the motion to this House with the reprobation of Minister Marlaska. I hope that most of the parliamentary groups, who do not believe in Marlaska's lies about Melilla's tragedy, will support the reprobation. Mr. Marlaska, I refresh your memory. Look, we reproach him for lying; we reproach him for abandoning the forces and security forces in Melilla; we reproach him because, out of a device of one hundred and twenty agents, half were wounded for lack of means to defend the border; we reproach him for not giving his face and hiding using the Civil Guard; we reproach him for hiding the greatest humanitarian tragedy on a Spanish border; we reproach him for not defending human rights; we reproach him for not guaranteeing the right to asylum; we reproach him for respect for those who lost their lives in the Melilla fence; we reproach him for hiding Morocco's brutal action on Spanish soil; we reproach him for saying that the Moroccan authorities warned of the massive arrival of immigrants to the Civil Guard, when it is false; we reproach him for hiding 470 rejections at the border; we reproach him for hiding recordings. Today you say again that there are eight hours of recording, but where is that hour and a half that you're hiding from us, Mr. Marlaska? Where is he? [[Applauds]] We want to see her, because she's never been taught. We reprimand you for denying that there were mortal victims in the Spanish area; we reprimand you for hiding information from the Ombudsman and the Public Prosecutor's Office; we reprimand you for denying the entry and performance in Spain of Moroccan forces; we reprimand you for your erratic immigration policy; we reprimand you because you must not follow a minute longer as a minister. Mr Marlaska, if you do not want to wait for your reprobation in February, I remind you that lies in democracy are paid for by resignation. Out of respect for the truth, out of respect for political decency and out of respect for our democracy, go now, Mr Marlaska. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u188	To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u189	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vazquez, very briefly to make two points. It is no longer just Mr González Pons, today you too have attacked the Civil Guard directly. He said: it was allowed or allowed - good, Minister of the Interior - that Moroccan gendarmes will enter and attack in Melilla, in national territory. That's what you said today and you're in the Journal of Sessions. Who allowed the Civil Guard to enter and act on those terms? That is what you said, not just Mr González Pons, so I understand that it was you, as spokesman for the Interior, who told Mr González Pons what he had to say. Navarra. I think he deserves it from the civilian guards and the civilian guards of Navarra. They know perfectly well that there are more civilian guards now than in June 2018 in the Foral Community of Navarre. They know perfectly well that all the civilian guards who want to stay in Navarre will stay, have more means of all kinds than ever. And there was also talk of the subject - not something new - in the Civil Guard Council I will tell you what date, January 27, 2020, in front of all the associations, because they were interested to know, asked to know, and they were told how their rights were going to be. That's also documented. Look at him and see if what I'm saying is a lie. They know they'll always have protection. And in that regard let me also tell you, regarding what you have made reference, that you seem to be unaware of what an investigation is. I do not interfere with the media, I say that the media have a role, but the investigation falls under the media of the relevant State: Prosecutor's Office, courts, etc. The media have another role and purpose in this regard. I do not interfere, I say that we respect the division of powers, although last week we have seen that you do not respect that division of powers, but that you tension all the powers of the State in order to pervert the very spirit of the Constitution. I say to you again that we will never allow a violent attack on the borders of Spain, which are of the European Union. Or were you going to allow it? And all the requests for international protection are being studied and we have a Asylum and Refugee Office that certainly has nothing to do with what you had in June 2018, and I refer to all the offer of public employment, how we have restructured it and how we are working on the precise conditions in a rule of law and debating the demands that are being demanded in that regard. And also by giving all necessary and precise means to our Civil Guard and our National Police. I tell you that we have already recovered - and I will repeat it as many times as necessary - in four and a half years, the 13,000 troops that were lost with the governments of the People's Party, and by more means, with many more investments, more than EUR 1 billion in infrastructure investments for the Civil Guard and the National Police, which you had not done at the border of Melilla. We will have for summer the intelligent border, both in Melilla and in Ceuta; higher investments, as I have already reminded you, to 50 million euros. That is to look after the forces and security forces of the State so that they will necessarily provide the public service that our Constitution, which you so much fail to do lately, confers on them in article 104. That's right, and that's how we'll keep doing it. And today you have again questioned the performance of those public officials, understand it as you prefer. And I will conclude because I always say these questions. You talked about the media. You don't have the latest information from the BBC, do you? Your Honor, I ask the People's Parliamentary Group, and I extend it to the rest of the groups for future debates, to descalate, to lower the tone, to stop accusing the Civil Guard without any evidence, to respect the pain of families who have lost some loved one in these events. I ask you, in short, to do something as simple as what the BBC has recently done, which has decided to withdraw the mention of all its articles to bodies without life on national territory, and has done so simply and simply because it has come to the conclusion that there are no elements that can support this statement. And let us leave the investigation to whom it belongs, which is to the institutions of the State, so that they can really determine what they understand from it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u190	We continue with the point concerning the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives, and in particular the one referring to the draft Organic Law of the University System. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative, I have the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, who will also set a position in his turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u191	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I support the amendments to the political formations of the Joint Group. The PRC already had a very critical intervention with this law last September. With the amendments the draft has changed little and really to worse. The few changes introduced seem to be concessions to some party, which does not seem to be anything new. In particular, solving a problem that only exists in Catalonia or Valencia, such as that of associate teachers, harming the rest, does not seem right to me. I can say that this problem in Cantabria in particular we barely have, and this change is going to cause associates to lose their jobs and, due to the reduction of credits, as my contact at the University of Cantabria informs me, they may have to cut subjects, with the danger of losing even some degree or degree. In addition, there is no well-defined academic career, with a clear process of stabilization; in fact, it is contradicted to include a figure that is temporary for six years, teachers assistant doctors, when the labor reform limits the temporality to six months. The temporality is greater than the current one and to reach 8% exclude certain figures from that own accounting. On the other hand, they overly relax the choice of rector, whose minimum requirements are vague and generalistic. In general, they make universities have a worse model of governance, and again probably to pray to their partners in Catalonia, who have different needs than the rest of Spain, and in particular the University of Cantabria. There are not enough transitions for current temporary teachers and they change the rules of play to half the game, and worse for them. It is a very vague law in many respects and too specific when it comes to pleasing whom we all know. Finally, with the amendments, nothing important has changed so that we can change our critical position. While there is some small change that can benefit some collective in general, most of the amendments, as I said at the beginning, are concessions to the investiture partners and go against the university community of the rest of Spain. Key issues, such as the replacement rate problem, the mechanism for devoting 1% of GDP to university without transferring responsibility to the autonomous communities, remain to be satisfactorily resolved, and, in short, as I said in September, is generally a continuing law of the LOU, which does not change the essentials and which, however, worsens aspects of the academic career, despite the fact that the preamble describes very commendable intentions, which are then not fulfilled at all. Indeed, there is a declaration of intentions, such as the reduction of temporality, internationalization, financing, etc., but the operative part does not really respond to this. I'm sorry, but we can't support her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u192	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Botran Pahissa.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u193	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the ministry team for their willingness to inform the groups and to make us partakers of all the steps that have followed the law, because this certainly works better. Even so, we will not support the law for the reasons set out below. But, first of all, a precedent related to the Constitutional Court, the protagonist of the last few days. In 2001, this court ruled that the scholarship policy should be transferred to Catalonia and noted it with two other judgments, in 2015 and 2016. Disobeying the Constitutional Court involves fines or aggravating prison sentences, provided you are not the Government itself, in which case you can disobey the Constitutional for more than twenty years. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u194	Wait a minute, Mr. Botran. I'd appreciate it if you could keep quiet because you can't hear the person who's intervening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u195	Entering into the content of the law, there are some aspects that are progress, surely highlighted by the minister in his intervention, and other aspects could be considered progress but we still have many doubts about its implementation, the main one is the stabilization of associate teachers. Because the idea is good, but without funding there is no possible stabilization, and in the law there is no economic memory indicating how it will be ensured that universities do not hide themselves in the lack of budget to open these places that allow the academic career to the false associates who want to realize it. We fear that this could mean a worsening of the conditions of the partners, which will go on to give fewer hours of class without the guarantees that they can benefit from this academic career, and to place the unions to ensure that this stabilization is implemented properly. Another dubious advance is that of academic unemployment. We continue to worry that it will leave out the form, let us call it a traditional strike, that is, with a general appeal, without having to go through any organ, which can be translated into a demobilization; precisely the student movement has been at the head denouncing the process of commodification of university education, which comes from afar and which the Bologna Plan has accelerated. In this sense, there are things in the law that we miss, because, especially when it comes to a ministry of the United Nations We can, we would have expected something more in defense of the public regarding the private, and I refer especially to the treatment of private universities or the presence of the great private capital in the social councils, for what I use the example of the chair of Energy Transition - it has guasa - that the University of Barcelona maintains with Repsol, paradigmatic enterprise of fossilism capitalism. In the same vein, the enthusiasm with which the law speaks about the process of internationalisation, which we have wanted to highlight with the amendments, runs the risk of deepening the social differences within the university between those who can access the European circuit, let us call it that, and those who cannot. We will vote no, hoping that time will not give us reason with all these doubts about not lowering the guard against the privatization and precariousness of the university world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u197	Eguerdi on guztioi. Today, once again, we see that the laws that are designed, processed and put into effect in this House respond in a disoriented way to the reality of Basque society. This law has had a long process, more than two years making contributions, contrasting different points of view, trying to reach consensus. The truth is that for lack of commitment it has not been, even if we have not arrived at the port we wished for. By the way, what most of us have agreed on is the need for a new law on universities. In the 21st century, if we consider ourselves a modern society, our universities need regulations and laws that respond to the needs generated in their day-to-day lives, without losing sight of what may arise in the future. He will agree with me that a knowledge-based society needs a strong university framework and, in addition, a public system that is accessible to all citizens and of quality. There was also a need for a law that will begin to put limits on this network of private universities that have been growing over the past decade, but we have met during these two years of work and seeking consensus with the ministry's imperative to maintain too many balances. Ladies and gentlemen, there are aspects that universities have missed for years and that should have been left behind in a modern law. We find ourselves, in our view, with an unambitious law that does not improve the university system as much as it could. This law, therefore, is a missed opportunity; we improved, yes, but not as much as we wanted. Euskal Herria Bildu has been clear from the start in this process. We put on the table what are contemplated by the statutes of autonomy of Euskadi and the law of Navarra improvement: complete competence in the field of education. We ask for the law to be enforced, it is not something so uncanny, and he has not been the answer. We also felt it was important to respond to the situation of the workforce, which was so important at the University of the Basque Country and with a long history of struggle for the creation of their own staff. Therefore, we propose to give this body the same rights and duties as the official staff, including the possibility of being rector. This issue, after lengthy negotiations, has been achieved in extremes. Another major issue in our amendments was funding. In this case, there has also been no minimally acceptable wording until the last minute. On the other hand, the democratization of the university system was another axis of our negotiation. In our amendment 531 we proposed, with regard to the election of the rector, that all the groups present at the university should have weight, limiting to 51% the representation of teaching and research staff and permanent or permanent teachers. In this case we have not gone as far as we wanted and we understand that from the progressive point of view it is a missed opportunity. In the same vein as deepening democratisation, we have tried to do so through different amendments; with the 527, to limit to the rector or rector his weight in the election of the composition of the governing council, or with the 526, giving power to the cloister for the approval or modification of the statutes of the universities. We believe that this law will strengthen the vertical model of universities, fostering the role of the governing team through the appointment of a third of the governing council. And we are also critical because we think that this law should have strengthened participation, giving voice to those collectives who, although many in number, have little voice in the decision-making bodies of universities in this law. This law therefore takes a step back in the internal democratization of universities. In conclusion, I would like to say that, seeing the reality that we are living with regard to mental health in all areas of society, it seemed to us very important to ensure psychological service for the entire university community in the university itself, an aspect that has in the end contemplated this law. We welcome that. Obviously, this law should respond to the precariousness of workers, improving their working conditions and increasing their job stability. Part of this is achieved by our amendment 515, and we hope that the reality of many women workers at the Navarra Public University, among others, will improve with it. [[The Lord]] We recognise that sixteen of our amendments have been negotiated, but the majority are down. That's why we're critical. We are going to abstain; we are doing it out of responsibility; we are doing it because we have not been able to respond to a historical demand from the Basque university: the possibility of working staff being rectors. But it leaves us very bad taste of mouth because it strengthens the governing team of the governing council. That said, a missed opportunity to make a good law that could have responded to the needs of Basque society. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u198	Thank you so much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u199	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This law is not our law, it is not the law of our university system, of the Basque university system, but we will vote in favour because there has been a very broad work. I would like to thank you for the work that has been done by your team for years and for the willingness to agree that you have manifested and demonstrated throughout all these years, both under the leadership of former Minister Castells and with you, Minister Subirats. I want to thank Marta Cruells and Aniza Garcia for their work. As a result of this work, the text that is being put to the vote today offers some very significant progress and, above all, does not prevent the future normative development that our university systems require in order to be able to advance and improve with ambition, which is what we intend to do. Therefore, from the beginning our request was for the law to be a general law, a framework law, that would allow within it to give way and enable this normative development of the different university systems that exist. We are keeping ten amendments alive, which I take for granted, and I would like - in these five minutes that I have - to be able to explain to you quickly, as a decalogue, ten important aspects which have been incorporated into the amendment phase and which are very important. Firstly, something very important for Basque territory, which is on both sides - in the Spanish State and in the French State -. The autonomous communities, connected with other European regions through the Euroregions, are being strengthened in the field of cross-border cooperation. This is very important for Euskadi, Navarra and Iparralde students. In this way, the autonomous communities participating in Euroregions will be able to promote the automatic recognition of studies that facilitate access to the university. Secondly, the university sphere is a reference point in language standardization through the promotion of official languages in the territories. The text strongly reflects that the promotion of the language of the Autonomous Communities is not limited to dissemination and learning, but primarily to its use as a language of academic transmission. Thirdly, the evaluation agencies of the Autonomous Communities are moving towards the perspective of European agencies with full competence, strengthening their accreditation and evaluation functions. Before the amendments tabled, these agencies of the autonomous communities had limited their functions to the local level in a nuclear field of university policy such as that of personnel policy. In the future, they extend their competence to the accreditation of all teaching and research personnel, both in the field of the workforce, which they already had, and in the field of civil servants. What's new: this situation enables workers to enjoy valid accreditation for mobility between university systems. Fourthly, governance and democracy within the university are strengthened, so that permanent staff can be expanded in universities, recognizing the ability of this collective to access other levels of governance, for example, to gain access to the position of greater responsibility and rank in the university, that of rector or rector. Fifthly, the explicit mention of dual training, a reality implanted in the Basque universities, which was ignored in the text, is introduced. The Basque strategy University + Enterprise is recognized through the explicit mention of dual training in law, a training initiative promoted from Euskadi and that has been the subject of multiple political initiatives both in Congress and in the Senate by our Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] Sixthly, autonomous powers are advanced and strengthened, both by setting the maximum prices for public prices and for the scholarship and study aid programme. Changes are also incorporated to respect the budgetary powers of the Autonomous Communities. The capacity of the General Conference on University Policy to set ceilings on public prices is eliminated. The exclusive reference to the State as the sole guarantor of equal opportunities in access to university is eliminated through the system of grants and grants, while recognizing the competence of the autonomous communities in this area from their own budgets. Seventhly, greater autonomy of the Social Council is being promoted, both in the budgetary and policy fields, to support the progress of universities towards excellence and its impact on society. Eighthly, in the context of lifelong learning, which is included in the draft law, persons who do not have any university qualifications enabling them to access continuing training qualifications and who are able to demonstrate professional or professional experience with a level of competence equivalent to university academic training will be able to access continuing education by means of a procedure for the recognition of professional experience, which is very important in Euskadi, where we have a great connection between the enterprise, vocational training and the university, and persons who have acquired their knowledge and training in the field of not always university and in the field of vocational training and enterprise. Ninth, the door is opened so that private non-profit universities, declared of social interest, can also participate in public programmes to promote research and technological development. And, in the tenth place, the guarantee of autonomous competition. Both university autonomy and autonomous competences are safeguarded, establishing a clear separation of the competences of each party and an integral vision for the harmonious development of university systems and universities. The capacity of the autonomous communities to coordinate universities located in their area of competence is explicitly recognized. As I said, this is not our law, but will we find at some other time the capacity and the possibility of adopting an organic law and having a majority that incorporates all these positive aspects?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u200	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have achieved the best possible law in universities, but unfortunately we believe that it is not. We would like to say that we have achieved a university model that guarantees plurality and tolerance, that ensures an environment of freedom so that all ideological positions have their space to be defended and debated and where the word is always imposed on force, but it is not so. We would like to be glad that we have agreed on a university system where we can have the opportunity to study in any university or to work and research in any university, but we do not think that is the case either. We would like to say that we have finally achieved a model of excellence that is fundamentally committed to society in order to train future generations in the best possible way and to ensure that the university exits into a labour market, with the certainty that access to that labour market is made in an agile and flexible way, to a demanding, specialized and constantly evolving reality, but unfortunately we do not believe that this is the case either. Finally, we would like to think that we have reformed and improved the university's governance system by making it more effective and more agile, and that will not be the case. And I sincerely say this with regret, even with a certain personal anger, because the Spanish university does not deserve to be a toy used for political and party purposes by those who do not know and do not respect precisely its character as universal, as headquarters and as a source of knowledge and as a tool of the argument. Unfortunately, the university, like so many other institutions - and we have seen it recently - we believe that it is again being manipulated by politics and that, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a failure if we assume that we are here to make the best law possible and we have not been able to do so, but it is an even greater failure if we have not voluntarily wanted to make the best law possible. It is true that in Citizens we had bet on this law. In fact, we looked forward to some of the initial issues, which have been disappearing from the various texts raised as the demands in the Government of Unity Podemos and the nationalist partners of this Government have been increasing. We have tabled 67 of the 803 amendments to the bill. Some of them are in the opinion, others have been negotiated, but we have been rejected amendments which we consider to be fundamental and essential for the real and in-depth reform of the Spanish university system, and we believe that this is still the great outstanding subject. We have also seen the acceptance of other amendments which we do not consider necessary or appropriate - even unacceptable - because they are not in the objective of truly reforming the university system. We maintain our amendments 288 to 292 to regulate the guarantee of a true evaluation of the quality of the university system, since we believe that we cannot pretend that the system works, and works well, without being subject to an ongoing evaluation, with criteria approved by the General Conference on University Policy, ensuring improvement and continuous innovation in that evaluation. But what is more, we believe that this law is the appropriate framework - which if not - for defining the evaluation procedure, clearly determining both its object and its characteristics. Its object is nothing other than to identify perfectly the university quality with the professional orientation and the necessary adaptation of training programmes and accreditation of competences, because we can no longer take out on the street promotions of graduates who then find themselves with a labor and professional market that has nothing or has very little to do with the knowledge acquired. As for the characteristics of the system's evaluation, it must be linked to the principles of continuity, objective and permanent improvement, on the basis of pre-established indicators, the plurality of sources of verification or the submission to basic criteria for the evaluation of public policies, such as relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, social impact and sustainability, and none of this is observed in the article. Moreover, we propose that a report be made on the state of the university system, so that society as a whole and public agents, as well as the university community itself, can know the general state of the system at first hand periodically; a report that talks about the supply of university degrees, employability, the needs of the public and private sectors and the adequacy to that demand. These amendments have not been accepted. We also maintain our amendment 295 because we really want to bet on real internationalisation. To this end, it is necessary to speed up the comparability of foreign degrees, either by automatic equivalence of degree and master's degree obtained in a country of the European Union, or by that of the doctorate obtained in any country member of the European Higher Education Area or in countries approved by international conventions. We maintain our amendments 314 to 219, where we propose that in the area of governance specific management competencies be set up in order to be able to take up the post of rector, as well as that those who aspire to be present a draft direction of objectives and purposes, of resources and means for this, and how it proposes to evaluate its role. We believe that the rector of a university can perfectly be an expert professional in management of both the private and public sectors, since in his duties as such he neither investigates nor imparts teaching, so it is necessary to break outdated structures and to bet on a much more professional and effective management and governance. Therefore, we also propose that the statutes of universities may provide for the election of its rector through a specific body for this purpose, in which persons outside the university of recognized academic, cultural, social, business or institutional prestige, local, national or international, as well as teaching and research staff, students and technical staff in management, administration and services. We bet in our amendments on a single-person body choice model that makes it possible to set alternative systems based on merit and capacity both in management and in research and teaching, and we propose to allow teachers to participate in companies that have R & D collaborations with universities, even if universities themselves do not participate in those societies, entities or consortia in question, as we have managed to do in the research field with the new science law. We also keep alive our amendment 327 because we assume the autonomous reality in the university sphere and the existence and work of autonomous quality agencies, together with ANECA, but we believe it is absolutely essential that the evaluation and accreditation criteria be uniform and uniform precisely in order to guarantee equality and mobility throughout Spain. And finally, we believe it is necessary to strengthen the institutional neutrality of the university, something which belongs to it by its very nature, but which, unfortunately, must constantly be remembered by the courts of justice. There is one very important issue on which we have already touched: funding. At the moment our amendment 323 has not been accepted to raise this funding, in the area of university research, to 5% of its budget in universities until 1% of GDP in education is reached in 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u202	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u203	I'm done, Mr. President. It's not the best law. The problem is that we think it could be a good law of the university system, but once again it is a missed opportunity. Unfortunately, Citizens won't support her. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u204	Thank you. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, from the BNG's point of view, this law is not only insufficient, but also inadequate in some respects. First of all, it is a law that serves to promote a process of privatization of the university with which we are in no way disagree; a process that takes place in several ways, establishing virtually equal rights for private universities and for public universities, but different obligations. The excessive role given to the social councils of universities is a means by which companies have the capacity to decide on public universities to the detriment of the competences of the university bodies themselves. And we do not agree with the fact that we recognize the possibility of allocating public resources to private universities, for example, through scholarships to students at these universities, which you so criticized Ayuso. In our view, these public resources should be allocated exclusively to public universities. Secondly, there is the competition issue. In our view, due respect is not maintained for university autonomy, nor for the competence of the autonomous communities to decide on their own systems. Thirdly, funding. We proposed the target of 1.5% of GDP for the public university, and that amendment was vetoed. Fourthly, insufficient progress has been made in stabilizing staff in the service of universities. And fifthly, insufficient participation. In short, of the sixty-four amendments of the BNG - it has finished - were incorporated three, but all those that made reference to these lines or vectors that I have just mentioned were not incorporated. It is therefore also clear that, regrettably, this law will not be able to count on the support of the Galego Nationalist Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u206	Thank you. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u207	Good afternoon, minister. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I must start by saying, Minister, that we believe that this law could have gone a little further, that it could have been a more ambitious law and that it could have collected a little more of the amendments that we have tabled, because we have tabled about a hundred amendments, of which only six have been negotiated. Laying the foundations for a 20-year, rigid, solid, university law that allows communities, universities themselves and their university centres to develop their own autonomy is very important. In that sense, we believe that this law meets this requirement, which was important to us. However, there are some issues. Is this the law we would have wanted? No, no, Is this law better than the previous law that presented his ministry? Yeah. Are we going to try in these last few hours to improve and increase those amendments that are important to us? Yeah. Will we be open to negotiating, after this law is passed, issues that are vital for us to develop? Obviously. You know that for us one of the issues that has been fundamental in this debate had to do with assessing the cost of living when the ministry manages its own scholarship system, which can then be complemented by autonomous systems - in that there was no debate - and this issue, in our view, has remained unresolved, but we trust the will of the ministry to resolve this later. That is why, Minister, after this vote we have reached out to you in order to be able to speak, negotiate and dialogue on issues that are still to be resolved. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u208	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u209	Good afternoon, minister. Frankly, we must say that the text that comes to this House today - and other speakers have said - for its approval is far from the preliminary drafts submitted and from the initial draft law. We rejoice, sincerely, and we celebrate it. We believe that this demonstrates the ability and intention of all to reach agreements to improve the initial wording. From our point of view, the changes introduced throughout the process justify why we are now presenting an amendment to the whole. It was necessary to make it clear. However, recognizing the progress made in the text, we still believe that these are not enough and pointed out the main reasons. There continues to be discrimination in the professional career of the IDP as labour personnel are unable to gain access to the post of secretary-general. Discrimination with regard to access to the rector has, of course, been resolved, but discrimination is maintained with the Secretary-General. Secondly, by maintaining that the majority of the IDP should be an official, Catalan universities were condemned to non-compliance, as the current Generalitat adviser had already pointed out. It does not seem to us consistent, sincerely, to pass a law that we know our universities are going to fail. Therefore, we propose that so much of the majority of the faculty be permanent and that each university decide whether it is a job or an official. This would be really empowering universities. Third point. We agree - as we said at the time - on the stabilization, especially of false associates, but the doubt is - and it has also been commented - where the economic accompaniment is to make it possible. We can't give a blank check, and we can't give it because we know that blank checks aren't being met. For example, for years - we told you the first time we met with you - we have been waiting for the transfer of scholarships. What we were told was that there was a technical problem and that technical problem is going on forever. Fourthly, there are still limitations in governance. For example, why should the General Conference on University Policy approve our programming? Why can't the autonomous communities? Finally, we said in the introduction of the amendment to the whole that if we talk about the demand for internationalisation and Europeanisation, we must bet on a plural university model. With the text that they will adopt today - I suppose - we believe that an opportunity is lost to get closer to Europe. It is a text that contains directly or indirectly - negotiated - some of our amendments. Those which we are keeping alive - and for which we are asking for your support, your vote - reflect the aspects that I have just commented on, these five specific points. From the beginning, we said it and we have always repeated it: Together we are willing to look for meeting points, although sometimes some want to deny it, and the parliamentary process does not end today, it continues in the Senate. The situation is that the Catalan university model is different from that of the other autonomous communities. It's not better or worse, it's different, it's own. In Junts per Catalunya what we want is to preserve and have the possibility to evolve and we consider that with the current wording, which - I repeat - is better than the initial one, these two aspects are not possible. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the text today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u211	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Minister, with this law we had a challenge, the challenge of thinking about the future, of ensuring the survival of the university as a central element of democratization, research, critical thinking and transfer of knowledge to the environment. We had to move away from the previous legislative framework of 2001 in order to draw a new university framework, a framework that for our parliamentary group should be as basic as possible for everyone to develop their model according to their circumstances. Seeing that the majority in the negotiation of this law passed through the Catalan and Basque parties, we wanted to bet on inciting. And although at the beginning of the negotiation - three years ago - the text proposed must be said to be inconsumable, today we can say that we have managed to make this law an improvement over the previous law. With the inclusion of some 150 amendments throughout the long process, Esquerra Republicana and the Government of the Republic have succeeded in promoting a public university of quality, democratic and accessible. [[Applauds]] So far, every time the student wanted to strike, he had to fight with the university's government team, and it wasn't always possible to reach agreements, much less to be able to match the studies with activism. When this law is passed, for the first time in history the student's right to strike, called the right to academic unemployment, will be recognized. And when this happens, the student will have guaranteed his or her right to make the studies compatible with student associationism. They will have a law that strengthens them in these constant battles. A right will be adopted to enable the student to obtain new rights. Today, in most Catalan universities, students have difficulty doing classes in Catalan, even if the curriculum itself establishes this. For an idea to be made, in many degrees we are talking about 25% in Catalan - so much so that they like this percentage - not other languages, and without having two language options. When this law is passed, the student will have the right to know in his or her curricula the language of instruction of the subject, which will enable him or her to demand compliance with the agreed provisions. And when this happens, the government will have to boost mobility programmes, such as Erasmus +, in official languages other than Spanish. And research and transfer in the official languages will be encouraged. In addition, funding for universities in these languages will be increased so that they can develop plans to boost these languages. So far, the PDI and PAS hired did not have the same rights and duties as the civil servant, despite the fact that some universities have opted for this type of model. When this law is passed, for the first time, rights and duties will be equated between workers and civil servants, to the extent that, from now on, contractors may also be principals of a university. And when this happens, within one year the ANECA will have to develop agreements for the recognition of autonomous agencies, such as HERE. In addition, agencies such as the AQU may even accredit officials. This law will recognize for the first time the Catalan or Basque model and, despite the limits established by the State itself, will make it inevitable that the working model will continue to develop. So far, most of the associate faculty did not want to be associate faculty; they had a job outside the university to have a foot inside the university, with the precariousness that all this implies. When this law is passed, we will start to put a solution to the precariousness of this teacher, preventing that figure from being used to reduce costs. And when this happens, it will also begin to solve the precariousness of the entire associated IDP, driving stabilization processes, without taking into account the replacement rate and based on the reform that was made of EBEP. Until now, private universities of a single branch and without any quality were allowed to be set up, provided that the autonomous community allowed them to do so; the case of Madrid, for example, will ring a bell. When this law is passed, it will be defined what the university should be. And when this happens, they will increase the quality requirements of the private and will be forced to have university advocates. The least we have to do with the private is to require them to make universities, not lobbies. Until now, universities such as the University of Barcelona or the Polytechnic University of Catalonia were reported to the courts for positioning themselves on issues of deep political relevance and impact in their environment. When this law is passed, universities will be able to analyse and discuss topical topics by law. It is enough to limit freedom of expression; universities must be and are democratic pillars and must be able to exercise as such. But in addition to everything we have said, we have also succeeded in ensuring that the law does not prejudice the situation we had previously. With our negotiation we have preserved the Catalan selection model, the Serra Húnter model of excellence and the competences of universities and self-governments, and in some cases we have even expanded them; also, the models of autonomous scholarships, competition in public prices and models of equality and non-discrimination units; we have managed to allow psychologists and migrant psychologists to approve their qualifications; we have left the door open to specific universities, such as the Universitat de les Arts, which we support from Catalonia; we have ensured that the student can combine his studies with work activity, among many other issues. And yet they know that this can never be our law. If it were, there wouldn't be a king signing titles and most of the staff would be staff members and we wouldn't have a replacement rate. That's what we're working on, making independence possible. But we have a clear conscience that it has been necessary to make it inevitable that in the future they will stop blocking the work model or that they will stop putting limits on the generational relevancy of the university. We end with one warning: today there is one stage, but another begins to follow up on the agreements reached, and for this we will be especially alert that this law is accompanied by a substantial increase in State funding. This depends on whether this legislative change has an impact. They're carrying out their responsibility. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u212	Thank you. Mr Robles López has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u213	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you see that when the independence and separatist groups want to improve a national law it is precisely in order to further deepen their quest for independence; you know who the rooms are playing with. [[Applauds]] You will know that the university is a Latin-rooted concept that points to what is universal precisely - that is why it is called university and not particularity - that has its core in Greek schools, in Aristotelian high school or in the Platonic academy and, as a matter of essence, it is basically the search for truth, this search for truth that the Greeks called philosophy, the search for knowledge. These schools also developed during the Roman period, the Proculletana and Sabinian schools of Roman law. Sabiniana has nothing to do with the racist and xenophobic founder of the Basque Nationalist Party and not with Joaquín Sabina. [[Applauds]] And then the universalizing explosion of medieval universities led by scholastics, the University of Paris, the University of Salamanca, the University of Coimbra, to the present universities, especially the Anglo-Saxons, where the most innovative sciences and technologies are studied. Universities have historically deployed an essence, a nucleus that is the search - I insist - for truth, but the Spanish university has long dragged a degeneration of this essence that, within the limit to which this harmful law contributes, produces a transformation of that universal essence of truth itself into a different genre of ideological and particularist character. Endogamy, the lack of means, the devaluation of content, the gross pragmatism and fundamentally ideology have been the causal agents of this degeneration, which has led to the absence of any Spanish university among the best in the world. With this law the transformation of the universal in particular is already almost irreversible; the conversion of the university into another instrument for the implementation of an official ideology that, instead of defending itself dialectically against others, is canonized in the legislative texts and uses extortion, insult and slavery as the only form of defense. [[Applauds]] The ideology of the fundamentalist left, with its climate fanaticism, its feminism, and contradictoryly to that feminism the theories of gender, its inclusive language, its political correctness, its puritanism combined with contempt for effort, study, authority and academic excellence, replace the truth and cancel the debate. Thus, this law no longer guarantees the right to education. When students call a strike or, rather, a parody of a strike, of those that their subsidized associations promote when they do not govern you, will they have students who want to go to class right to be able to enter? Because what comes out of the law doesn't seem to be. By the same rule, they award scholarships to mediocre students who only approve 25% of the credits; you want to ensure a perfect activist factory. An ideology - yours - that no longer seeks the truth, but supports the power of elites who seek to end the canonical nations and turn citizens into subjects of a new order supposedly progressive and, in rigor, completely regressive. Because the model you are pursuing, separatist gentlemen, is a neo-feudal model, and that has nothing advanced. [[Applauds]] In their search for universality, medieval universities, for example, used Latin as a free language, which allowed interconnection between them, which allowed a Spanish scholastic, such as Juan Caramuel, to defeat Descartes, because Descartes had written his metaphysical meditations in Latin and Caramuel understood it perfectly. After the French Revolution and the emergence of political nations with their national languages, English and Spanish maintained this universality, that frank language character that allowed the development of research programs in two connected areas: the Angloosphere and the Spanishosphere, remnants of the empires that make up our contemporary world. When with this law the separatist social government intends to break the already precarious unity of the single university district, encouraging classes, publications, research to be done exclusively in the regional languages, are they not attacking the same universality that the university defends? Aren't they using college to break up with what's common to propitiate the breakup? [[Applauds]] Is it not a new attack on the university district that from this law it is the autonomous communities that set the prices of academic fees? And how do you rate that with this law, labor personnel are allowed to take the position of rector? All the reforms contained in this law are aimed at weakening the university system. Undoubtedly, as is already the case in Hispano America with propaganda for pre-Columbian languages, this linguistic apartheid of Spanish is an instrument for breaking the Hispanicity of our transatlantic ties, but also for breaking our nation. With this panorama, I would ask you to make an effort of coherence and at least to stop calling university what is no longer universal, but a ram of the promotion of particularism, of villageism and of the disappearance of Spain as a political nation. In the logic of preaching, affirmative universal propositions have as contradictory proposition the negative particulars. Particular and negative is his law: they deny the nation, deny Spanish, deny academic excellence and deny the truth. Explain yourself to the Spanish university students of Castilla, Aragon, Andalusia, Extremadura, Cantabria or Murcia, but also to the Argentine students, Peruvians, Venezuelans, etc., who will not be able to study or work in the Basque Country, Galicia, Catalonia, Valencia or Balearics - and will add some more with the bable and these things - because you have decided that knowledge, truth and universality are less important than the destruction of Spain and the re-conception of the only universal language of our mischievous nation, in order to establish a feudal regime in the service of separatist and globalist oligarchies. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u214	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u215	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We come to this point of processing a new organic law for the university system. However, today we are before the debate on a law that I am going to baptize as a paradox. As has been said so far, it is the anti-university law, and it is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, because you see, so much effort with your partners and look at the opinions that you have poured before I rise to this rostrum. I can already say that it is basically the law of Republican Left, because, obviously, the story that Mrs Rosique has made shows who and for whom this law is: a law against the Spanish university system. [[Applauds]] After so many years of working at the public university, loving the public university, fighting for the public university and for a quality public-private university system, I'm sad. I am grateful to my parliamentary group for always letting me defend this project and this presentation, but I am sad because today it had to be the day of recognition, for example, my fellow biologists who work several months a year on board the Hesperides in Antarctica, those who work on the first lines of artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, those who are working on the new medicines or our new aspiring astronauts from the University of León. Today would be that day for all those who during the confinement put all their spirit in making in 3D protective bulkhead machines, and those who made their gloves available to everyone, although we did not get that they declared essential personnel. It is the day for new university students, those we need, the university of renewal, the university that has to replace our generation, the generation that lived the democratization of the university, of course it has. The 1983 Act was not part of my party, but I vindicated it and claimed the subsequent amendments, because they have allowed me to advance to a university that can compete in the world by looking into the eyes. University students are not perfect, no, ladies and gentlemen; Spanish universities are not perfect, no, ladies and gentlemen, but they are much better than what is heard. [[Applauds]] It is not possible to admit distrust in universities. We must give them instruments, support them and demand them, but first we must support them, and this law must have supported our young people who have just entered into predoctoral contracts. On this point, I support all our amendments. Unfortunately, many of the more than one hundred that we have presented and that have not been incorporated wanted the academic career to be better defined, and you, Minister, I think you understood. There is a need for visibility that access is made from when it is formed, and it is formed when the doctorate is being done. Predoc contracts are not worth referrals and the quality career is not made on the basis of partners. We need professional partners, but they don't need to be hired indefinitely, it's barbarity. We also need to make order visible in that university career, because all categories have remained scattered. The concepts of nation and country have disappeared, and the state accreditation of officials has disappeared, Mrs Rosique said here, without makeup. We are state officials, accreditation has to be state, cannot be autonomous; the Constitutional Court will have to say so. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Rector ceases to be the highest academic authority, ceases to be the representative of the university. So, what's the rector? Public universities are unique public administrations, but public administrations, and that determines some rules; therefore, the Secretary General has to be an official. We want a university at the service of some autonomous community, and the rest of the system, what? The rest of the 17 autonomous communities, what? The rest of the universities, what? Isn't this gonna be your law? Are you going to have to undergo a statutory process again by putting - if you forgive me the expression - legs up the university? For what? And while, Minister, we do not understand why that is not to Amendment No 622 of the People's Party, where we ask for something that people with intellectual disabilities ask for and have had visibility in the law. Why is that not access to university studies with the pilots that the universities are doing? It would have to be reflected. Why are we told that not to the public-private collaboration that all the directors are asking, that of the University of Barcelona, too? Or intensive research universities? Why not? Why that suspicion? The university cannot alone with revenues and public funds. Anyway, it wasn't our law, but we've worked to make it a consensus law. It comes out without consensus, and that's not good for the university, Minister, and I'm sorry. In any case, we have to thank you. I want to give them here, and I hope that the Presidency, to the university community, which has collaborated with us in so many instances; to my fellow Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Committee on Science; to my fellow Commissioner, Sandra Moneo; to Marta González, especially; to my fellow rapporteurs; to the fellow rapporteurs of the PSOE, because of their receptivity, although it has finally not been possible to reach these agreements; and to all the others in the Commission: to the Commission staff, alloted, to Eric, especially, what we would do without Eric!, and I want to mention it here...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u216	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u217	...to the advisors of the ministry, by your listening, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u218	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u219	We would have preferred that that listening had materialized in more things.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u221	They would have found us there, just like we were in the science law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro. Mr Pisarello Prados has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u223	Thank you, President. It is clear that one of the basic objectives of those who, shamelessly, keep the Constitutional Court and the General Council of the Judiciary abducted and blocked is to prevent the adoption of laws from the Courts that increase the political, social and civil rights of citizens. That is why it seems to me that the best civil response we can give to that uncivil insubordination is to show, how we are going to do here today, that there are plural parliamentary majorities who are willing to respond to every attempt to block with a new law and every attempt to generate noise with more rights for people and for citizens. [[Applauds]] So, in the same way that we have had a law of science, in the same way that we already have a labor reform, that we have a law of euthanasia, that we have a law against gender violence, we will have here a law of universities. That is why I would like to begin by thanking, on behalf of my Confederal Group, the entire university community; Minister Castells; Minister Joan Subirats, for their persistence; Republican Esquerra; the Basque Nationalist Party; More Country; Compromís; Teruel Existe; PDeCAT, also Bildu, for their commitment and contributions and, in a very special way, as it could not otherwise be, the comrades of the Socialist Party and its spokesman, Roberto García Moris, for their responsible and rigorous involvement in this law. What happens is that it is true that it is a sign of the times that, although we live in a very complicated time of pandemic, and although we came from a law of two decades ago and dragging very high levels of precariousness and underfunding, we cannot extend these thanks to the radicalised right-wings of the House. The People's Party has had good Members in this Commission, Mrs Moro has been, but what has happened to Feijóo has happened to them. In the morning they make restraints, such as Dr. Jekyll; in the afternoon, they receive a call from Ayuso, and suddenly appears the mystery bronchus Hyde, which prevents reaching agreements on absolutely any subject, however reasonable it may be. The first thing that was done, ladies and gentlemen, in this ministry was to increase the budget for grants for economic reasons by 37.8% and to update the income criteria. It's an unprecedented increase. How did you feel about Mr. Hyde? Bad, of course, because what the PP did was expel more than 80,000 students in six years for its policy of scholarship cuts and study aid. [[Applauds]] In addition to scholarship budgets, in addition to pre- and post-doctoral aid, in addition to improving labour rights, teaching and research staff, this law has a key commitment to shield 1% of GDP for new universities. What does Hyde say? Too bad, because the good thing was, as in the days of Minister Wert, to have decreased public investment by 20.1% and to apply cuts of €95 billion, without even listening to the universities. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the 2015 People's Party decree on private universities was so permissive that it ended up handing over the university, especially here in Madrid, to unscrupulous companies, which in many cases lowered the quality of universities to scandalous levels. But what did they do when this ministry assumed that it was necessary to put a minimum order and establish controls to preserve university quality? They probably accused a call from Mrs Ayuso and defended one of the most shameful policies in the field of private universities, criticized both by the University Council of Madrid and by the agency of autonomous quality. And it seems to me, Your Honor, that things have to be said as they are. You may have many reasonable discrepancies with the ministry's policies, but what bothers both Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, finally, is that the elite model and the class model that you defend from college has not been followed. And that's why they don't like the public university being able to finance itself with taxes on big fortunes. And that is why you do not like the adoption of a labour reform that has allowed us to reduce by more than five points the level of temporaryity that you left us during your government. That is why they do not like that they have struggled to reduce the price of fees in grades and master's degrees by up to 17% compared to the increase they had had during the Wert government. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, and let us not say anything about what you think about territorial distribution, that we do not live in the Francoist state or the centralist state of the 19th century. That we must read the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a plural state, and that when we read Article 2 of the Constitution we must not read only the part that came from the General Captain's Office, we must read that it is said and that the autonomy of the regions and nationalities that we are is recognized, because that is also what we are as a country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to abound in this, because the part of the far right is even more Kafkian. I understand that Mr Robles had a very long militancy in the Communist Party, but at some point he also suffered a fall in Damascus, and some of the things that you come to defend here, more proper to a law of universities would be worthy of a law of barracks or a society that aspires, instead of having public universities, to have a university in El Escorial in counter-reformist times of Philip II. You've said it here, you'll see this luxury. The truth, the truth, the truth. Much truth, but it turns out that truths are lux, when we talk about defending universal human rights, it suddenly becomes darkness, the truths disappear, and it turns out that human rights today are, let us say, great globalist deceptions that cannot be defended. Ladies and gentlemen, how is that possible? You say that there is no need for a law like that of universities to contemplate the defense of equality between men and women on gender equality because they say that there is no discrimination and because they say that, in university, everyone gets where they get on their own merit. Have you not read the biographies of Margarita Salas, Lynn Mangulis, Marie Curie, of any of the young researchers like Olga Margalef, who explain what it means to become a university career in a macho society like the one we have? And when you speak, ladies and gentlemen, of the fight against climate change. When one sees what they do on social networks defending almost terraplanism, when one sees that Mr Ortega Smith says that he is going to fight the Chinese virus with the Spanish antibodies and then almost ends with a thrombosis, ladies and gentlemen, with that negationism, indeed, where do we want to go? What kind of college would we have if you ruled? [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] If you were to rule, ladies and gentlemen, how long would it really take you to shoot Galileo again? [[Rumors]] And yet, ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not, yet it moves. [[Applauds]] Egypt is moving. We will have a law of universities for a public university of more democratic quality, more modern and more accessible. We are going to do it on behalf of all the people who fought in anti-Franchism to democratize this university, on behalf of all the people who mobilized on the streets to reduce the precariousness, to reduce the privatization of the university system. And since we had science law, we're gonna have college law. Since we've had job reform, we're going to have college law. Since we had euthanasia law, we're going to have college law. Like it or not. And Merry Christmas, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u224	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. For the Socialist Group, Mr García Morís has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at last the LOSU, the organic law of universities arrives at the plenary session of Congress for adoption, and we are convinced that today it will receive broad support because we have worked hard for this necessary consensus, a consensus that will bear fruit today. It has been three long years of government work, Minister, and also here in Congress. Within the Socialist Parliamentary Group and since the PSOE we have made many proposals to this bill. I would like to stress that, ladies and gentlemen, all this time there have been difficulties and negotiations between all of us to present this draft. Because our proposals were the result of work with the different sectors of the university community, with different collectives and also with the territories, because we govern in many autonomous communities, both in which we govern and in which we do not, we are stuck to the territory, and we know the diversity of our university system. Others can't say the same thing. The Socialist Party has always relied on the public university, and that is what universities know, because they have always had an ally in the Socialist Party. Always. And so it has been throughout democracy. The PSOE has always been in the great university reforms, leading them, taking them to the BOE - remember the LRU - and with that same responsibility we have contributed as a parliamentary group, as a party and as a government to the law of universities. I would like to stress that this law is, firstly, a necessary law, very necessary after twenty years of LOU; secondly, a law that clearly fights against precariousness, and, thirdly, a law that recognizes and enhances the diversity of all our universities. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we Socialists can go out here and put any of our autonomous governments as a good example of university policy, of a public university bet. Instead, you don't. You can't. You, Mrs. Moro, are noticed to believe in the public, as a university student you are, but you have a difficult role to play, because you cannot go out here and set an example to all the autonomous communities governed by the PP, because the common feature of your model is inequality. There they have Madrid: thirteen of the forty-one private universities from all over Spain, a third, five of them opened in the last three years of Mrs Ayuso. That's the model they mostly like most, the public university has never been a priority of its policies. [[Applauds]] Look, ever since we had a socialist president again, any young man who studies at university pays less university fees than when you ruled, he has more chances of studying with a scholarship if he needs it - the LOSU, by the way, shields this subjective character -, receives a higher amount of scholarship and with this law he will have more rights - more rights within an organic law - and that was a demand from the students; students who know well the progress between the LOU, of 2001, and the LOSU. Graduate students will have more opportunities to continue doctoral studies with contract through the FPU. When doctors choose to do so, they will be able to opt for university places in research organisations. Young people are predocs in the law and they are in our proposals, in our policies, in our budgets. Don't lie, the predoctoral and the predoctoral are here. [[Applauds]] We lay the foundations to take advantage of the talent we have in Spain in our public universities - yes, public ones - because all the measures we have taken in this legislature serve to preserve our public university system. Not you. The policies of the PP go on the other hand. You have cut the system, created inequalities, and this law, along with the budgetary effort we have been making, is key to reversing your lost decade. [[Applauds]] This law also works notably in favour of equality, for the clear increase of women in university responsibilities, for the gender perspective in university studies, for the reduction of the gender gap in research, also for the prevention of gender-based violence at university level, and so on. The PP in the Commission said that teachers were going to join the university without merit, and I think this is insulting the university. If something does this law is to enhance merit, university quality with public calls and commissions with a majority of members external to the convoking university. The temporality is resolved. There will be more and better contracts, preventing abuse of precarious figures. We facilitate the rejuvenation of the templates. Let's go to more quality, Mrs. Moro, to more quality and with more labour rights. And let them be clear, do not confuse: the PSOE is clearly committed to the official way in public universities. This is what we have always done and, if not, look at the numbers of the universities where we govern. And those who believe, also lords of Esquerra, and lords of the People's Party, in the civil service of the state are the ANECA, the ANECA. [[applause]] And it is not necessary for the Constitutional Court to say this, says the law, says the LOSU itself, a law that is clearly committed to reaching a minimum of 1% of public funding for the university system, a commitment included in the law that marks a path for us. There is also in the law the path of lowering the public prices that you have raised, which allowed the autonomous communities to raise them in an unorthodox manner, generating inequalities. All that's in this law, it's in the LOSU. Finally, we want to thank all the academic and collective sectors that have contributed to us, with which we have met, thanks for their work; also the political groups for their contribution throughout the process, since they have enriched the law in its processing, with special thanks to those who will give their support today. And I want to thank, of course, particularly the team of the Ministry of Universities for their work all this time, because there is a lot of work behind it; I want to customize it in the two ministers, Manuel Castells and Joan Subirats, but it is extended to all their team. This law is a law for the Spanish university system, for the fifty public universities, which are key to their territorial development, for the different autonomous communities and also for their international projection. With it and the policies we have been implementing, we are achieving a better, more modern, more internationalized and more equitable system. Despite you, we look to the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u226	Thank you so much. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Universities has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u227	Good afternoon, everyone. I would simply like to highlight a few things at this end of the debate. I think this law was absolutely necessary. The former, the Organic Law of Universities, has been in force for more than twenty-one years. It was done at a time when all the powers of the autonomous communities were still to be deployed. It was done at a time when technological changes of all kinds that have been taking place in recent years were unimaginable. We therefore understood that it was absolutely essential to deal with the reform that this law poses of the entire university system. In order to make this reform, which my predecessor Manuel Castells has been rightly said to have started, in this year that I have been in office, I as a minister and the team of the Ministry of Universities have carried out a very broad consultation of all sectors of the university community. I have visited more than thirty public and private universities directly on their campuses. We have held many meetings and days of reflection and debate with all the universities. We have had more than one hundred and fifty meetings with all the social partners, with the collegiate bodies. I would also like to point out the meeting I had with former ministers and former ministers of universities, such as Pilar del Castillo, Mercedes Cabrera and Ángel Gabilondo, and with representatives of student and trade union groups, and obviously with parliamentary groups. I believe that this is an important and important work over time and that this project which is now under discussion has been improving during this process. I think it is a process, therefore, of intensive dialogue, of building consensus, which ultimately means that the law can contribute to the university system facing these next twenty years at least. If, as I hope, in this final procedure today and tomorrow the law continues, by the decision of all of you, I believe that we will finally have a law that improves the current situation. Why? Because it recognizes the diversity and plurality of the university system and, at the same time, incorporates new elements that are significant; for example, the whole process of Europeanisation of the university system, which I believe should be highlighted. Europe's higher education policies are no longer international policy, they are internal policy. They will increasingly mark the functioning of this system and I believe that the law responds to that criterion. It also surpasses the effects of the 2008 economic crisis and under-financing - which has already been mentioned - and marks that 1% of GDP horizon, which I believe is significant, by 2030. It eliminates the precariousness, which was one of the consequences of this under-financing, reducing the temporality from 40% to 8% and, at the same time, proposes to respond to the ageing of staff by encouraging stabilization and promotion programmes. It democratises access to the university, as has already been said, by establishing a system of scholarships as a subjective right linked to the socio-economic situation of the applicants and, at the same time, raises the containment and reduction of public prices, which, instead, was not done in the previous period, because the universities' response was precisely to raise the fees. It strengthens the university's connection with society through various mechanisms. I would also like to highlight here the issue of lifelong learning, with micro-credits, the subject of open science and the development of citizen science. It increases the degree of internationalization of the university system, favoring that students do not have to apply for a residence permit every year, but that they can do so for the duration of their studies for another year; I think this is quite important. And, finally, it guarantees, I believe, the quality standards of the Spanish university system with very significant quality requirements, both in teaching and in research and transfer. I would therefore like to thank everyone for the effort to reach this point. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u228	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u229	I am speaking to ensure that the amendments of the Joint Group are defended and that they can be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u230	Thank you so much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u231	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, on, on, on, on. Let's start by introducing the regulatory framework, Minister. Employment as such is not one of the related matters in article 149 of the Constitution, nor is it in the Statute of Self-Government of the Vasco Country. However, it has always been understood as a cross-cutting matter and the Constitutional Court itself has stated this, referring to the following titles in order to be able to intervene in it: if it is in the field of work, it is based on 149.1.7, and if it is in the overall planning of economic activity, 149.1.13. In addition, the Constitutional Court has also stated that the mobilization of financial resources intended to regulate the labour market and full employment is not limited to what is being understood as a strict sensu labour regime, but to measures affecting the labour market as a whole, in compliance with the guideline of article 40 of the Constitution on the formulation or obtaining of full employment. As far as the Basque Country is concerned, Articles 10, 25 and 12.2 of the Statute of Autonomy empower the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to establish and develop its own employment policy in accordance with the general management of economic activity, but, as far as the latter is concerned, it is understood that it can also exercise legislative powers in matters which are not strictly labour-related but which are related to them in order to engage in active employment policies, in job creation, in the promotion of employment which, as a matter other than that of work itself, can also be linked to economic development and economic activity. There is also - and I say this as a counter-position - that a preliminary draft Basque employment law is already being published and pending access to the Basque Parliament. It is a preliminary draft that substantially coincides with the objectives and measures of this State employment law, but it also provides for an organization and structure of its public services, in the exercise of its powers of self-organization, which first address the existence of own policies that are the consequence of the transfer, through Royal Decree 1441 of 2010, of functions and services in the implementation of labour legislation in the field of employment, employment and vocational training for employment; and, secondly, address the existence of an own body, Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service, which was created by law as such. In addition, it follows that this preliminary draft Basque employment law provides that public employment policies in Euskadi have as their primary objective the realization of the right to decent, decent work, where the regulatory framework must have as its purpose the policies of promoting employment and extending social protection. For this reason, and without prejudice to the participation of identical and similar principles, structure and functions, we propose at the moment an amendment to the whole, which after a process of dialogue was withdrawn, and then partial or particular amendments that have been aimed at clarifying those aspects of the draft law that could affect the exercise of those own policies that are developed in the exercise of the competences that were already transferred and assumed by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. In them we pointed out that we wanted participation in the different State bodies to be carried out in any case as a collaboration between public administrations, but public administrations equally competent in this field. For this reason, different amendments of our group concerning employment policy objectives, the powers of employment policy planning, the State Employment Agency, the governance of the system, the Spanish Employment Agency, i.e. all those referred to in Title II in the organization of the activity and the system of employment of the State have been dealt with. I would like to highlight among the amendments that we have proposed two, which have been dealt with by your ministry. One has been an additional provision 11th new - that is to say - which refers not only to the fact that the exercise of the powers provided for in this law will be exercised for Euskadi, in accordance with the legal regime governing that transfer of Royal Decree 1441, but, and in particular - and this is important - in accordance with its link to the economic concert, which acquires special significance in the definition and development of employment policies, not only because of the origins of the economic resources allocated to them, which some would have to clarify in order to make it known that they do not come from the distribution of funds agreed at the Sectoral Employment Conference, but also because it contains a broad approach to the subject which allows us to participate from their point of view. And there is another amendment concerning the important titles of competition, the distinction that I have just made between 149.1.7 and 149.1.3. In other words, it allowed us to participate in a specific way in our own policies on economic development and economic activity planning. In short, we have finally understood that as a result of these agreements, this bill was already within the scope of the agreement, it was also within the scope of equality of objectives, purposes and means, including economic sufficiency for all employment activity already covered by the Basque employment law, which already covers Lanbide's activity and we hope that in the future it will also be able to guarantee this law for the whole State. We have therefore understood that certain levels of agreement have been reached in their development that allow their support, but on the understanding that this activity or any other activity in which we are going to be involved in the field of collaboration involves collaboration and respect between public administrations equally competent in this field. Madam Minister, first of all, I place it in your hands; and secondly, I do not want to end without referring in particular to your collaborators, both Hugo and Ricardo and Joaquín, who have done exceptional work, not only in technical development, but in the area of the willingness to work together to achieve these agreements and who have therefore also made it possible for this to happen tomorrow, which is that we can definitely support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u232	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u233	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon now. Let us talk about the ineffectiveness of active employment policies, which leads to these policies being the Achilles heel of political action in the labour market over all these decades; it is an ineffectiveness that is reflected in the data. In the last two decades, Spain has failed to reduce its unemployment rate by 20%. If we go to the long-term unemployed, the situation is already directly more than dramatic, a situation that we must reverse; in my parliamentary group we felt that it was not only necessary to make this bill modernise active employment policies, but also that it was essential and urgent. I am sorry to say that the bill, in its short hours of work, has not convinced us because, like many other legislative initiatives of this Government, it had far more to do with than with revolution. Even the designation of this bill as an employment law as such in general, as if it were itself the savior of the labour market, seemed almost excessive to us. We hoped that it would be possible to improve this bill during its processing and to have an employment law that if it were not to prove to be excellent, at least it would be decent. However, far from improving anything, we have had one of the most cumbersome and disastrous legislative procedures I have seen in all the time I have been working as a Member in this House. So accustomed must be the Ministry of Labour to legislate on the basis of royal decree law that gives the impression that they did not directly know how the legislative procedure was drafted. This has been the point - and I will be allowed to tell you this - that during the process, rather than making proposals for compromise amendments to the parliamentary groups, the Government itself sent us to the parliamentary groups the reports, the assessments, the Ministry's justifications for the amendments tabled by the groups, and no compromise text. A misconception, ladies and gentlemen, nothing more. The result is that we have a project whose practical usefulness we have not yet fully understood. What is the contribution that this new law will make, what will change? The truth is that not much and the greatest proof of this is how so far the government, which usually does very good marketing campaigns, has not sold this law with enough rumbling. Let us see, on the one hand, the conversion of SEPE into an agency, which the Government maintains will serve to have a more digitised and modern service. One argument, they will allow me, of the most pilgrim, because digitisation does not magically appear because of the change of legal regime of an organism. It is not so; to digitize resources and will are needed, and if those resources and will have been lacking in SEPE during all these last years, as you will understand will not appear by magic art in SEPE turned into an agency because they change its name. On the other hand, and as a second example of this law, the Government talks about a new process of evaluating public employment policies. This is directly a blow to this House, because we passed a few weeks ago the Law on Institutionalization of the Evaluation of Public Policies in the General Administration of the State, which has defended my colleague Juan Ignacio López-Bas. It is not understood that, having an assessment law passed just a few weeks ago, this law comes with its own assessment regime and much less is understood, although I am no longer surprised, that the parties supporting the Government, PSOE and Podemos, have refused to accept the amendments in this area that seek the transparency and publicity of these assessments. [[The lady]] There are also elements that may not have the most appropriate regulation, such as the collaboration of private placement agencies and their inclusion in the integrated public information system of employment services. We share the need to make better use of all available employment data and exploit the potential to give job seekers more opportunities, yes, but when it comes to talking about the fact that the integrated system must bring together all the data from all public bodies, and also from private agencies, we still have a doubt as to where these agencies are left. Finally, I must also comment on the introduction at the last minute of an amendment to the Workers' Statute on collective redundancies, a modification which has a lot of bad bargaining faith on the part of a Ministry of Labour which is constantly proud of the social dialogue. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is not how things are done. In short, in my parliamentary group we believe that the bill is not up to the revolution that public employment policies need. It is a purely declarative project, with paragraphs and paragraphs that say nothing are repetitive, with some punctual improvement, even if by accident, but nothing that was not possible with an amendment to the current law, and for that journey, ladies and gentlemen, there was not so much need for the coffers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u235	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister. We went forward in the full debate that the BNG was very critical of the content of the employment bill and warned that if it did not undergo a substantial change it would not be able to count on our support for its final adoption. We tabled forty-three amendments in a constructive spirit, but unfortunately there was not the same spirit on the part of the Government and the Ministry of Labour, which rejected our proposals. We are therefore, in our view, faced with a new missed opportunity to move forward on real employment policies that will improve the current situation in the world of work. On the contrary, the new law opens the way to the privatization of what today is INEM, SEPE and placement services, as it allows the outsourcing to private entities of all services, leaving them in the hands of ETTs and private placement agencies. The State Employment Agency is set up which, in addition to assuming functions at the state level, regulates the services of the autonomous communities in a clear and flagrant invasion of competition. I think we are not wrong if we say that this law is part of the reform package imposed by the European Union as a condition for receiving European funds, the same package that conditions labour reform, which did not derogate from that of the People's Party, or pension reform, which still lacks a really hard part, as we have been told, in addition to opening up to privatization through company pension schemes. In short, we cannot support this law by its bias, as it said, privatization and centralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u236	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u237	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Madam Minister, what is certain is that today the legislative process of this employment law that was presented ends and that it had a couple of sessions of extensive work, let us say, as regards volume of amendments, of contents, and whose vote we have to definitely focus on today's Congress of Deputies. [[The lady]] We have already considered that this was an opportunity to reflect that it was not only a subjective right, the right to employment, but could also be an opportunity to collect an active duty in employability and, therefore, there was a whole package of amendments aimed at capturing the idea that there was, of course, a right to employment, but also a duty to employ, the right and the duty to work. Many of our amendments go into this thesis and also on what we have already counted on more than once to turn the famous employment paradox over active and passive policies and the corresponding so many percent. Surely more in-depth work could have given us some tools in this area. However, sometimes when transactionals arrive, nuances are introduced. For example, on issues of gap and accessibility, it arises: 'ensuring full accessibility and non-discrimination in such tools', and the transaction that comes is: 'trying to secure', and sometimes one has the feeling that some content that could have been much more forceful in the text of the law remains empty. In any case, I should like to take this opportunity to thank all those Members, both from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the Parliamentary Group in Podemos, and also from the Ministry, for trying to bring up positions and look at texts to unlock some issues. When it comes to unlocking some issues, we are particularly pleased that the third sector's collaboration in this role that we have been demanding and that they also play in this area of employment; the strengthening of the role of the autonomous communities in the design, planning and coordination of these policies, as well as the recognition that other actors also exist in labour integration. It does not include some issues that we believe may be the subject of debate or further work, but it was a good opportunity, such as the issue we raised of the remaining and reintegrations not executed annually, and that it could have been a great opportunity to make it fixed that they could go on to years to come, looking for solutions of correction in those cases of communities that do not execute it and, therefore, are lost resources; but the fact that they are annual is a loss of money that could go perfectly destined for the following year. However, with regard to the whole process, the amendments and the will to work that has taken place, our vote will be in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u238	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the same group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u239	Good afternoon, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make it clear that we are not facing a comprehensive employment law, but rather a chapter, the one devoted to civil servants and bureaucracy, to the State occupation service - the former INEM, the current SEDE - of the employment law. And this chapter is too statist, centralist and also aidist for us; it does not address structural issues of employment and it does not put people at the centre of employment policies, as we would like. Having said that, we will not deny that the law opens up possibilities in the governance of autonomous communities and municipalities, improves the training routes and the evaluation of public policies, and we cannot fail to say this. I'm sure you already know the so-called 8020 paradox in employment policies. It is useful to explain that with the same percentage of investment as the European countries, unlike them, 80% goes to passive policies - benefits, subsidies, checks, receipts - and for active policies there is not even 20% left. And with this employment law we have the feeling that an opportunity has been lost to reverse this situation. We share with Catalonia's productive sector, with small and medium-sized enterprises, the idea that employability is a subjective right. A right which must have as a reverse the duty of predisposition of the unemployed person, and also that the public authorities must promote the fulfilment of this duty. They have to provide the conditions to materialise the subjective right to employment with a catalogue of services and services, training, guidance, accreditation of competences, mediation in the end, with active employment policies. From the idea that work is the best social policy to turn the law towards an integral management of active and passive policies, to focus on people and to give dynamism to their connection with employment, Junts per Catalunya has tabled twenty-eight amendments. We have been able to make some compromises, such as the commitment to big data and aggregated information systems to improve profiles and facilitate the work of mentors; legal instruments for the coordination of occupational and social systems, which are very important for the third sector; instruments to guide training to profiles demanded by companies; clarification between mediation and placement, and greater involvement of local and regional administrations in public employment policies, although it is not closed as we believe that the competition issue should be closed. Finally, I would like to thank Members Esther Peña and Aina Vidal for their parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u240	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès i Massó. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u241	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Madam Minister, at the outset we would like to congratulate ourselves on the progress that has been made on the Labour Inspectorate's mandatory report in the event of collective dismissal. It is known throughout the world that this does not constitute a recovery from the administrative authorization that many of us demand, but it is undoubtedly a step forward, an improvement and we welcome it. Not only because of the increase in the capacity of political tutelage on collective redundancies that can be fraudulent, but because through this change we appreciate that the time of 'cannot touch a coma' I think it is ending. So let's take advantage of it to continue getting rights, it won't be for us; you know, they have my hand stretched out for this recapture of rights. Let's go to the employment law. During the processing of this law - which our group considers necessary - we have recorded a battery of amendments worked with the Labour Counsellor of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Our aim was to enhance the capacity of our Government to act in favour of those who are seeking employment; ultimately, to improve the lives of working people by improving the capacity of the Generalitat de Catalunya's management policies. This parliamentary group is going to give support - as it cannot otherwise be - to this bill. We do not say this with complete satisfaction, since we think that we have a long way to go, and I think that we will. For example, in terms of funds for active employment policies, this law would have been a great opportunity to calculate the cost and transfer funding in an effective and stable way to the autonomous communities in order to thus complete the transfer of the competition that we have established or, at least, fix the interannuality - I know that here you agree and I think that it has not been possible - that is, to stop operating with the blackmail that the funds that are not committed on 31 December each year must be returned to the central government. This makes no political or administrative sense, since it is clear that active employment policies are planned and organised over several years. We are faced with a missed opportunity to solve what would technically be very simple: the annuality of funds for active employment policies. We agree that in other workplaces we will be able to solve this serious problem; we will. However, we cannot deny that we are faced with a text that makes progress, albeit timid, in our way of looking at the model, and that is why we support it. There is still a way, as I said, to go so that we can say that the different territories have good tools to manage quality employment, diversify the economic activity of the territories and improve the quality of life of the local and territorial population. Policies in this area must fundamentally respond to principles such as collaboration with the actors involved, including the educational community, often forgotten. We must also build on respect for local autonomy, recognition of territorial differentiation, political employment situations, etc. It is very important to bear in mind that the autonomous communities know the reality of the unemployed and the productive fabric of their area of territorial concentration, occupational programmes, etc. It is for this reason that Esquerra has introduced into the negotiation a novelty in terms of recruitment that we find interesting, which should make it possible for young people to have better access to the labour market through the active employment policies that are being implemented. All the contributions of this parliamentary group share a very clear intention: to give solidity to the system, we must make the system of active employment policies useful and effective. Because we are not talking about theoretical or abstract issues, but about fundamental issues in the lives of working people, the question from which all their personal and social reality is determined, whether or not they have work, of what kind and under what conditions. So we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you so much. We're moving on. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u242	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador i Duch. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u243	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin by defending all the amendments and thanking all the rapporteurs for the work they have done; my colleague, Alicia García, and the other rapporteurs of this law, in addition, for the conditions in which they have made us work, because - as has already been said here - I think it has been one of the most cumbersome procedures that are remembered in this House. Madam Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating you, because while the Government of which you are a member is dedicated to confronting the Spaniards, you have managed to unite them. The Fedea, the CEOE, the Economic and Social Council and any organization that has an opinion based on the labour market in Spain agree on something: its employment law is a piece of legislation. It is not on their agenda to solve problems, but to fatten them, and it is noted, because if they were not bound by Europe's deadlines, they would not have been concerned about that 42.2% of the unemployed who have been seeking employment for more than a year. So you come scorned, with something little more elaborate than a wording that aspires, but which will not succeed, to turn SEPE into something more than a performance processing office. That requires more than changing your name and selling it as the job Tinder, because the things that work on the headlines, Minister, don't always work in reality. The tools used by the SEPE, the funding it has, the staff it has, the training offer it needs to make or the access to the data of the Ministry of Social Security it needs are the things that can make the SEPE the real public service that demands its workers and needs its users - change its name, no - and of that in this bill there is little or nothing. According to data from the last EPA in the third quarter, only 2% of the employed found work thanks to a public employment office. SEPE today has fewer staff than before the pandemic. Between 2020 and 2021 almost a thousand workers have retired, a thousand vacancies that have not been replaced, in a staff with an average age of fifty, who retires and continues to retire. Therefore, I would like to ask you: Shouldn't you learn to manage your staff before giving lessons to companies, Minister? But no, you're not here either to solve problems or to manage. Therefore, when their legislative projects are given light, they are seen holes, holes due to lack of work and excessive haste and ideology, as the law of the self is yes. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u244	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u245	The reality is that the active policies in Spain do not work, and they are your business, and judging by the document that you bring to this House, you will still not work, but, yes, you will complicate the lives of many people, because the bill that you have drafted is filled with that narrative merengue that you introduce into every text you write. They speak of decent employment, adequate occupation, decent standard of living; these are the concepts that the officials of the renowned State Employment Agency will have to apply, but how do these concepts come into being? You don't make them concrete or articulate procedures. Its text speaks of coordination between administrations, an issue we share, but not of how it will be carried out. Where are the measures to improve the Single Employment Portal in this text? Or why are employment incentive programmes not seen as active employment policies? It is also true that I do not know if I am more afraid of what is in the text or what is not, because the long-term unemployed and those over the age of 45 are profiled in this Employment Act, in a small paragraph, Minister, in the corner of those to whom your Government has nothing to offer. To the rest of the Spaniards, what do they offer us? Legal insecurity and the reduction of freedoms. Companies will have an obligation to communicate their vacancies, without us knowing today if we are faced with a substantive restriction or form in the freedom of recruitment. Or is it a return to the old INEM as a monopoly of the intermediation between supply and demand for employment? No one knows whether you, knowing it as we know it, will just make illegal any employment contract between companies and workers in which the public administration does not intervene, or if, on the contrary, all you want is to make up the harmful data of brokering that today throws out public employment services, because of make-up you already have a master's degree in labor reform, Minister. Ask that more than half a million inactive stationary workers, who are unemployed, but are not listed in their statistics: 555,746 inactive stationary workers in the queue of unemployment, but not unemployed. You are presenting a text that does not strengthen active employment policies, which has already been said in this forum that they account for 17% of public employment policies, compared to 83% that represent passive policies. Really, you still don't understand that people want to work and not be subsidized? [[Applauds]] Because, obviously, we can all go through a bad time and we must be there helping, but the goal must be their immediate reintegration into the labour market, accompanying them in that transition to employment. [[The Lord]] And speaking of subsidies, they are presented without having been able to provide a solution to that need to simplify and unify the system of unemployment benefits and subsidies. Your Employment Act, Minister, does not address the needs and requests of those who most need the support of your Government, but, yes, those of Bildu do. [[Applauds]] They have incorporated into the agreement and the pact reached with the social partners in the labour reform a compromise amendment with Bildu which will incorporate the prior control of the Labour Inspectorate into the causes of EREs, which will limit the freedom of enterprise and which will incorporate greater rigidity into our labour market. That is what you are, people well disposed to the amendments tabled by Bildu and also to those tabled by Squerra Republicana and the PNV, who withdrew that amendment to the whole pending possible markets, pacts and negotiations, because you are certainly aware that the government is sold to the highest bidder regardless of whether certain concessions are to the detriment of our country. And if you know them well! As a result, a number of amendments have been incorporated to extend these autonomous powers, including the transfer of powers in the management of payment and control of unemployment benefits. I'm done. We Spaniards are not fools, Mrs Díaz, and we have realised what very little you do with the legislative texts when it comes to protecting women or the more than three million Spanish unemployed, but they work very well and very quickly when it comes to protecting friends convicted of sedition, embezzlement and corruption. [[Applauds]] That is your Government, Mrs Díaz, an obstacle for those who want to work, but a paradise for the corrupt in this country.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u246	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u247	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u248	Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u249	Thank you very much, Mr President. Eguerdi on guztioi. Allow me, first of all, to begin with a thank you, in this case Mr Movellán, of the People's Party. Thank you for the publicity for the agreement reached by Bildu. I think it's a good deal for the workers, and the more people that add up to its spread, the more reach it will have. So, first of all, thank you. From there, I would like to point out that we will vote in favour of this bill. Today we reach its final stage. We are presenting various amendments throughout the process, amendments which had to do with the inclusion of the social economy sector in the tables of social dialogue within the business side; one day it will have to explain the CEO because it has the monopoly of representation there. We also tabled amendments to defend policies of effective equality in women's access to employment and to reduce the obvious and existing inequality in the gender gap, some of which had to do with the determination and designation of decent and quality employment, not only in rhetoric but in practice, and also with respect for self-government. Much of these amendments, both through our group and others, have been taken up, and that is what we vote for in favour. This law is important because we believe that employment services should be useful tools for guidance, mediation and training. It is a question of making public employment services more effective in taking away those who have done business, too, with the search for employment of those most in need: temporary work enterprises. It is also a question of providing them with more human and material resources, because still today - it is a reality - the ratio of workers in employment services to job seekers in the Spanish State remains too high, too high if we compare it with any country in our environment. Here we are talking about 330 job seekers for each employee of a public employment service, compared to 22 in the United Kingdom, 47 in Germany or 66 in France. As I said, it is important for us to define also what quality employment is and, above all, not to penalize the unemployed person who does not accept any offer and at any price. That is why it is important to make progress on the interprofessional minimum wage and on issues such as the distance required to access the job, because it is now when the need forces you to take any job that is neither worthy nor decent. Let us move from this obligation to effective protection so that, instead of forcing, we can truly cope with precarious employment. It is true that things are missing, all those pointed to the social economy are missing. We're sorry it wasn't possible now. And there is also a lack of unresolved debate in this state, which is that of passive employment policies. I said this in a previous session and I repeat it again: the Basque Parliament, through an initiative by Euskal Herria Bildu, but with the support of more than 90% of the Members of the Gasteiz House, Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, we called for passive policies for our autonomous community, urging the Government of the State to transfer passive employment policies. They voted in favour of Euskal Herria Bildu, the Socialist Party of Euskadi, Unidad Podemos and the Nationalist PartyVasco, as I say, more than 90% of the House, and it is still an unresolved demand. I think it is good that we should, in any case, land the proposal and the debate today. This is not an ethereal employment law, it is an employment law that acts on the present, it acts on the here and now. And in this here and in this now things are happening, and it happens that the CEO decides that today he does not want to go to the Social Dialogue Bureau because he does not want the interprofessional minimum wage to be raised; the same CEO who was angry and very angry because we reached an agreement with the Government to be able to support this law that strengthened the role of the Labour Inspectorate and that gave a preceptive character to his reports so that the causes of dismissal in the ERTs were analyzed. What's bothering the CEO about this? Who doesn't hide, nothing fears. They may hide too many things, they may be annoyed by compliance with the Workers' Statute, they may be annoyed by the fact that workers have more tools to defend themselves from their policies, because what the CEO does is political, and because no one is hiding that in this state the CEO has had much power. And I could refer to many episodes of the CEO's power to determine what the economic policies of this State had to be and what the conditions, increasingly scratching with slavery, that the workers of this State had to endure. I will refer only to one, the 2012 labor reform, which was approved with Mariano Rajoy. What social dialogue was there, if it was approved by the Rajoy Government at the request of the CEO himself? Well, that's the same CEO who decides today that he doesn't have to go to that meeting. Will it not happen to them - as to others in this State - that they are considered above the legislative power, that they consider that their power is above the power emanating from this House - that so much their lordships say of one and the other sign - that it is where the popular sovereignty resides, where the desire and the desire of the more than 47 million citizens of the Spanish State is concentrated? For the CEOE seems to consider itself strongly in the face of that majority will. I, simply, and to conclude with this current reference, can point out one thing: that the CEO is angry at an agreement reached on the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu and with the Government, with the Ministry of Labour, for us and for us, for the people of the Basque sovereignist and independenceist left is an honor. What would be a horror is that the CEO will be happy with our political positions, because we would be totally beating the rights of the Euskal Herria working class and the working class of the Spanish state as a whole, because we have the same legal framework. Today, too, another fact is taking place that would have to help us to think about and act on the implementation and development of this law. At this very moment, there is a strike in the Labour Inspectorate. Labour Inspection is on strike because they demand more resources and more means. Frankly, we believe that the fact that labour inspectors have more resources and more means to carry out their work, that it is nothing other than ensuring compliance with labour legislation and that the rights of women workers are respected, would not have to bother anyone. Of course, it does not bother the workers of Vulcanized Zuloaga, on strike; it does not bother the workers of Novaltia, on strike; it does not bother the workers of Moly Cop, in Gallarta, also on strike, and I suppose that, like these, all the workers on strike or working. It probably bothers those who are also annoyed by the recovery of processing wages, the rise of redundancy payments, the end of statehood, i.e., all this probably bothers those who lived very placidly with Rajoy's labor reform, all those who still today cling to not recovering all the conditions for the workers that existed before that reform. We, from Euskal Herria Bildu, along with RC and the BNG, will continue to fight so that everything that remained pending to recover in the previous labor reform becomes effective. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u250	Thank you. Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u251	Thank you. They've managed to create a lot of noise these days, but they need to know it's not going to work out for them. Nor will they be able to win by judicial means what they have lost by democratic means, nor will they be able to cover up the social progress of this Government. Time and time, but Spain will have courts that will respond to democratic plurality and maintain the rights won, the minimum wage will rise and the employment law will be passed. I would like to begin by thanking the role played by the autonomous communities, the public employment services, the researchers, the social partners and also the parliamentary groups. This has been a law worked out, negotiated and consensual, and the volume of amendments accepted and also negotiated demonstrates this. This is an important law for many reasons, because it gives guarantees to thousands of workers who need an effective public response to find their place in the labour market, because it speaks of the future and of hope for women workers and also for businesses. It is not recreated in past precariousness, but it projects stability and opportunities for tomorrow. It brings us closer to Europe, in figures, to finding employment, to public policies and to evaluating them - we are going from being the exception of the European Union to being a reference - and basically involves an approach to employability and a structural transformation of active employment, decent and quality employment policies at the centre, because poor employment is always a bad job. I'm going to tell you an anecdote. Whenever I hear the word "employability", I remember a professor of economics who was chairman of the Employment Commission, Alberto Montero. He said that every time we talked about employability, a kitten died, and he said it because in Spain this concept was only used to criminalize the workers, to send them a hard and false message, which is basically that if you don't have a job, it's your fault. This changes with this law. The message from now on is another one. Employment and unemployment are not isolated episodes, they are not meteorological events, they are parts of a vital and professional trajectory that must be of quality. We link employability to training and personal accompaniment, without criminalizing, taking on public responsibilities. We talk about a catalogue of guaranteed services and individual itineraries to achieve complete career paths. Workers are entitled to a common service portfolio, regardless of where they reside. Each person will have an individualized digital profile, a personalized itinerary and will receive tutoring throughout his/her working life. This orientation incorporates for the first time entrepreneurs and self-employed, a fundamental part of our country. That's how we believe and that's how we do it. The public, digitised, modernised Spanish Employment Agency is set up, which will be multidisciplinary in nature with new governance and will manage this catalogue of services. This law involves a transformation into mediation, to make it more accessible, more efficient and with a single employment portal, with the obligation to notify vacancies, which is a great novelty. The new law entails a far-reaching transformation in active employment policies. The local dimension is strengthened in response to the specific needs of each territory, with particular attention to crisis and relocation processes. This country's employment policies have failed in coordination with the local level, and this standard incorporates this perspective in its own governance. It eliminates gaps, in this the law focuses: the digital divide, the gender gap, the generational gap, the education gap and also the territorial gap. This law puts us back on the job as pioneers in Europe. And you know something funny? It has been validated by the seventeen autonomous communities and their corresponding public employment services, yes, also those governed by the People's Party. In Congress they say this is the worst, but in the communities where they govern they validate them. Who lies, ladies and gentlemen, to the autonomous governments or their national deputies? This law provides three thousand job guides and professionalizes this collective that so good work does to achieve quality itineraries. And I wonder: What is the People's Party going to do in the communities it governs? They have been refusing to consolidate the jobs of these workers for years. Are you going to reject these professionals? And the question is relevant, because let me give you an example: in Castile and León, the People's Party and VOX are returning the funds of the social partners involved in collective bargaining; they say they work for Spain, but at the slightest opportunity they leave the workers in this country unprotected. In Castile and León, the People's Party and VOX have just eliminated the funds for the system of mediation of conflicts in companies, the bodies that must avoid conflictivity and that serve basically to prolong conflicts. You do not defend the working class or the interests of companies; you want mud and fight not only in Congress, but also in companies. In Castile and León, the People's Party and VOX are going to withdraw funds that allow workers' legal representatives to train in occupational safety. There are women workers who die in their jobs and you mutilate the funds that also serve to avoid it. Are you going to do the same with this law? We will continue to expand rights and guarantees, because this law establishes new priority groups; it combats stereotypes and gaps in all its actions and aspires to effective and real equality, which is why the potential beneficiaries are expanded in this case: women victims of gender-based violence, people in situations of social exclusion or the group of people who have abandoned employment services. People over the age of 45 also fall into this category, which was about time. An important and novel aspect is that it introduces, inter alia, policy evaluation. We will therefore be able to understand which active policies work and which do not, because we basically create three new rates: intermediation, employability and coverage. We must therefore have a good system of evaluation of public policies and there will be specific obligations to measure the effectiveness and efficiency of actions. Finally, there are two amendments that I would like to highlight: that of asbestos, which in this case expedites the recognition of benefits, ensures that victims are paid and that they receive what is theirs, and that of the Labour Inspectorate, which will finally have that capacity and authority for the administrative authorization of EREs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made more progress in labour stability over the past year than in the past thirty-seven, and we will continue to do so. As long as you run through the expired courts to bring down what you cannot here, we will continue to work to make this country more dignified, fairer and more democratic, even if it fucks you. Merry Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u252	Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, seventy articles, six titles, more than a dozen additional provisions, five transitional provisions, one derogation, six final provisions form the draft employment law that we have been discussing these days, where the bad arts of the left have shown themselves radiant and bare, ready to do anything to achieve their ends by justifying any means. Employment Act in line with the rest of the rules that are also passed in these dark days in concert with the new dogmas of the left and their companions, left that lost the blush a long time ago and now shows one of the darkest faces. Go ahead that socialism, already at its birth, turned the legitimate and just defense of the workers against the abuse and exploitation of man by man, after a materialistic exegesis of life, through the creed of the class struggle, and slipped into the cultivation of hatred and confrontation, which is where it constantly squanders, abandoning now the struggle for equality for the struggle of so-called gender policies among other injurers. [[applause]] We are faced with a law of employment at all only technical or harmless, born on the left in its most current version, where it is reinvented, faithful to its false mystique, to continue its work of erosion of freedoms, our ways of life and the traditional Western culture; yes, the famous battle that really interests, the battle of ideas. Therefore, by investigating in the law created by the PSOE, with the order and command of Podemos, we guess that together with logical measures, in a manner of pleasant balsams, such as declaring the interprofessional minimum wage unfettered - a question that was certainly already being rolled - it injects into the text the real reason that moves them after the canvas of complying with the European Union and praise committed to component 23, which is the manic gender perspective, obsession that occupies the entire legislative acquis. An Employment Act converted into a tragic farce that introduces particular and territorial interests, which in no way prioritizes the search, aid, permanence and location of decent employment, as well as preventing the facilitation of conditions of fair and unhindered working environments. It is a rule that expressly eliminates from its purposes the search for employment, forgetting it, in order to embrace obsessively the treatment and priority of the gender perspective that permeates in a cross-sectional way all its policies - exposition of reasons dixit -, ending with any glimpse of seriousness, impartiality and common sense, which affects in a rage way mainly the middle and most humble classes; a rule that modifies SEPE as an autonomous agency to make it a state employment agency, and that the real intention of this law is not employment, but the mismanagement of unemployment It is a law that introduces the intervention of the Labour Inspectorate, at Bildu's will - now that they are neither - by reporting on collective redundancies, breaking the commitment of the Minister of Labour at the social dialogue table. [[applause]] Following the style and style of the President of the Government, any word given serves no purpose. There is no doubt that the mechanisms proposed to facilitate employment suffer from a clear lack of preconditions for generating employment in Spain; current leaders of unemployment throughout the OECD, especially youth unemployment. The commercialization of the individual already in the language itself, when talking about the labour market, replacing the anthropological centrality of the person with the ecological, that of bias, that of gender or digital, follows the obsessive dictates of the ILO, where the origin, ethnicity or gender matter more than the maternity, for example, term that appears only once and in the presentation of reasons without normative capacity. In short, it is a law like many others that are being adopted in staorgia without scruples of the left, which deepens in inequalities and in its obsession to direct the person through places outside his own nature. I would like to address specifically to my colleagues in the parliamentary group, to the affiliates and militants of VOX, to the compatriots who voted for us and to all the Spaniards who see with concern the adoption of this law, among others, and the suicidal drift to which the left leads us. This government beats the legality, as it has again become evident in its absolutist legacy, by means of the power of legislative control, which allows the insult directed at women and men of VOX, when our parliamentarians are censured for non-existent attacks on the honour of parliamentary groups which, as you know very well, lack legal personality and, therefore, honour, prying into the incompetence of the interpretation of the law. Paraphrasing Jaime Balmes, they have endeavored to paint VOX parliamentarians as fury outs of the flock that breathe only fire and blood.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u254	Your Honor, one second, please. I ask you, on the basis of article 102, to stick to the issue and continue the debate in which I was that, as you know, I remind you, is the Employment Bill. [[rumors]] Thank you so much. Go on. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u255	Mr. President, you claimed cause is cause is cause is causeti.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u256	Go on, please. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u257	Cause cause is cause caused, the cause of cause is the cause of the evil caused. This is what I am claiming in this very law. [[Applauds]] In one of the most tragic and sinister moments of our history, in a tired and painful Spain, but still able to discern between good and evil, so that this mobilization of the Spaniards is true, moved sentimentally, convinced intellectually, converted intimately, we recover the pulse of a living, prosperous Spain, in peace and harmony, and let us end with this blow to the legality that Mr Pedro Sánchez patronises. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u258	For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u259	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. Today we are discussing the employment law, a new law that comes to improve the lives of the working people of this country, a law that puts us in tune with Europe and a law that, again, is well blocked and committed to social dialogue, the private sector and the autonomous communities to seek a country with decent career paths that bet on the recovery and the future of our businesses. And before this good law we have the right wing as always, as you have seen. It is very risky for the People's Party to enter into a war of unemployment and stability figures with the current numbers of the labour market. The PP of 27 % unemployment, the PP of redundancies and ERAs, the PP of 57 % youth unemployment. And they follow, moreover, with the story of the fixed discontinuous ones. This government has not changed a single comma of the ministerial order that regulates how the unemployed in Spain and the fixed discontinuous are counted, and so on since 1985. I believe that the fixed discontinuities already existed in the Francoist labour ordinances, which some yearn here. And one more thing, do you know who computes them? The public services of the Autonomous Communities. Are you telling me that the data given by Madrid and Andalusia is made-up and fake? Is the PP accusing Ayuso and Bonilla of scamming the Spaniards with the unemployment data? This is what there is, but good. Returning to the case, why an employment law? Do active employment policies have room for improvement in our country? They have it. Can SEPE's problems be solved? It can be. Did the People's Party do anything while ruling to do it? No, no, Well, yes, cutting SEPE's workforce, causing, among other things, desperating all those users who for a long time didn't find someone on the other side of the phone. [[applause]] That is the reality, because reality tells us that only 2% of the employed found work thanks to a public employment office. This reality also tells us that unexecuted training funds accumulate year after year, reaching up to EUR 4 billion. The raw reality is that the European Commission itself points out to us, because incentives and public aid do not really help with recruitment. And what do we do with this reality? It is clear that there is considerable room for improvement in active employment policies and public employment services, and that is what this law does, but the right-wing party claims that things are going to be as they are, and that is bad. And what does this government propose? Well, moving from the muse to the theater, as Lope de Vega said. By the way, he also said that some people have to talk foolishly to give them pleasure, but I'm not going to do it. This rostrum and the Spaniards deserve education and respect to explain things, and we will not get used to the climate of bad education and lack of respect that the right hand transmits from here in recent times. [[applause]] To the point. With this law an unemployed person will have a common catalogue of services guaranteed with a list of eleven public rights that the employment services will offer him. By the way, catalogue validated by all the autonomous communities, also those of the People's Party. They are now working from here to oppose their own autonomous governments just because they wear out the Spanish government. What else has he got? Advice for self-employment to avoid the failure of many entrepreneurship projects. Look, this law brings value and funding - which is more important - to more than 3000 job guides who are going to help on this issue, is key throughout the employment system. [[The lady]] Can the People's Party explain to us - and also VOX in Castile and León - when will it consolidate and professionalize these workers in the communities where you govern? [[Applauds]] Because the government of Pedro Sánchez commits to them and finances them, but the ball is on its roof. What else do we do? We say goodbye to SEPE and create the Spanish employment agency, a new governance with evaluable objectives to analyze every year what is successful and what is not. A new integrated public information system, a single employment portal, is also being created, where vacancies, which are many in this country, can be better mapped, 130,000 according to the latest INE survey. But apart from mapping, finding and covering these vacancies, what is needed is to improve wages, working conditions and re-establish, which this law also does. What else does this law bring? It focuses on those people who have the most difficulty in finding their place in the labour market, over forty-five years of age and young people, and also assimilates the disability disability situation, responding to a fair demand that the People's Party never wanted to meet. And to all these improvements for the unemployed, but also for the workers who want to improve their position in the companies or to reconfigure, the right is opposed, as they have seen here. And the truth is that this does not concern anyone because, if you oppose it, it is almost a guarantee of success, particularly in employment matters because the model of labour relations of the People's Party is the classic model of failure. You fail and wish to condemn to failure thousands of Spaniards who already benefit today from the measures launched by this government. Also, just for the moment. The People's Party continues to resort to labour reform in courts. You know, what they don't win here because the Spaniards don't support them, they expect the judges to solve it by the back door. Well, this labour reform has turned thousands of temporary contracts into indefinite and the rate of temporaryity has fallen very sharply, approaching the European average, reducing by almost 14% compared to last year. And do you know what that means, besides improving the lives of hundreds of Spanish families? This measure by the Government of Pedro Sánchez has contributed to an increase in expenditure and consumption of nearly EUR 3 billion. And I'm not saying it, it's data - I'm sure you trust in this case - from the Bank of Spain. I would like to end by thanking the colleagues and rapporteurs of all the political formations that have made it easy to process this law, the Socialist rapporteurs and our lawyer for always putting a smile when everything is warmed up. Also thanks and an extensive recognition of the social dialogue, for the responsibility exercised by employers and trade unions, for sharing with this Government the obsession to give stability to employment and for being part of the agreements of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u260	On behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u261	Thank you, President. I simply wish to address all the groups in this House who have worked hard on a rule which, I am sure, is extremely difficult. President, first of all, I would like to thank the team of university professors who have made it possible and, of course, the Government of Spain and Mr Ana Vidal and Mr Esther Peña for the work they have done, as well as all the groups that have made multiple amendments to improve this text. It is true that employability policies in our country have failed, and I believe that this is an element that has brought us together in the diagnosis of this norm. I am aware of the difficulty of this rule with regard to the competences of the State and, of course, with regard to constitutional respect for the competences of each and every autonomous community. I am also aware of the enormous challenge posed by the rule in the transformation of the Public Employment Service. I think it's a huge, hard job. Beyond the final positions of each of the groups, on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank each and every group that has made this law possible. President, I would like to clarify a statement made by the People's Party. This law will not transfer the management of public unemployment benefits to any autonomous community. As you know and we say in law, where there are papers the beards shut up. I wanted to deny this statement because it is absolutely inadvisable and therefore, Madam President, for the sake of the respect of the House and of course of the citizens who may be listening to this debate, I want to make it clear. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u262	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u263	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Opinion on the draft law on the real and effective equality of trans persons and on the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix a position at this time, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u264	Thank you, President. Firstly, I support the amendments tabled by the Joint Group. After months and months of work, today the trans law will finally become a reality. There will be law despite the ex-abrupts of the far right. There will be law despite the ghost of women's erasure. There will be law despite the danger that it now stalks women, those who attack or spy on us in the bathrooms and in the locker rooms. Let us clarify a fundamental element before we continue, who assaults us is violent masculinity, not people who decide to transgress the gender-gender system of this patriarchy that kills us. Let's keep going. It is a very important text that is also produced by Law 8/2017 of the Valencian Courts, Law 8/2016 of the Parliament Balear and Law 11/2014 of the Parliament of Catalonia. It is a pride to say that the Catalan countries have been a beacon in the rights of LGBT people. This law is also the product of years of struggle, claims and demonstrations. Stonewall's riots are a benchmark, which today, by the way, would be illegal with the reform of the Penal Code. Sonia Rescalvo is in memory. The debates of the feminist days of Madrid and Santiago de Compostela were a background to what would later be the trans-feminist movement, but also as a genealogy of the exclusionary positions that patrol the borders of feminism. Campaigns for depathology are in the annals of the contemporary feminist movement and today, finally, the law legally recognizes that trans people exist, that they are not an anomaly and that they need protection from institutions. And the data are clear, in terms of work UGT estimates that 86% of LGBT people hide their sexual orientation at work and that the unemployment rate among trans persons in the Spanish State reaches 80%. The European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights estimates that 77% of trans women and 34% of trans men in the State have been discriminated against in seeking employment. And in social terms there is transphobia, that umbrella that explains the fabric of sexist violence and the discriminations that trans people experience. In fact, until not long ago - and still today it is in force although not legal from this law - the term gender dysphoria and the use of psychiatric therapies have been the most common notions among the medical community. Eliminating the concept that some forms of gender are a pathology is fundamental to guaranteeing the human rights of trans people. This law contributes to equality, so it is a law that must be supported and the UPC will do so. The feminist movement, space and political identity that supports and embraces trans claims, must assume that the rights of trans people do not remain and that patrolling the borders of feminism is part of a derivasentialist and identity that is exclusive. But the feminist movement must also be a space of dialogue and discrepancy, and it seems appropriate today to talk about two issues. The first is identityism that distill certain arguments and political positions around the trans issue. Citing Miquel Missé, he describes identitarianism as the conception that the people authorized to wage the political struggle are those who are directly affected by that discrimination. This would lead us to say that feminism is a question of women and that transphobia is only a question of trans people. It seems to us a little transformative; in fact, we prefer a collective political identity such as the feminist, which builds a common future and which exceeds the index of legitimacy that is held according to who it is. The second, related question is that we think that trans has to do with a way of inhabiting the disruptive Quees genre, that it raises questions and that it problematizes it, and seems to us to be an indispensable contribution to the feminist movement. For this reason, trans is part of the feminist movement. And that is why it seems to us that the essentialization of masculinity and femininity does not fit very much because for us gender and feminism are theories of power, and power has to do with the disruption of these molds that make life more difficult. Public policies cannot be an aggregation of individual experiences and the text we have in our hands solves the current reality, but it does not look to the future with a fundamental questioning of binarism. It seems to us that the law starts from the idea that one should choose, that gender and binarism structure our way of organizing life and that people can change the box - for this reason the trans law - and may love anyone - and that is why the rights linked to the sexual orientation of LGBT people - but that there is no alternative possible to this board made of femininity and masculinity as alterities. Surely in the world we want to build - and in which fortunately many young people already live - gender will be an open, questionable and questionable space full of questions, and fortunately it will not need so many standards or so much suffering. May the future come soon, may the feminist struggle live, and may the trans lives be free, dignified and happy lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u266	Get out of the way. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to begin my intervention by saluting the collectives who are present here today. Thanks to the treasure of your struggle, what this law collects has been achieved. Mila esker. This law is a necessary law, an essential law to guarantee the rights of LGBT people and to respond to their specific needs. It is a question of providing fundamental and basic tools to solve the situations of discrimination experienced by all those who do not enter the limits of the imperatives that the heteropatriarchal system sets out as a rule in terms of the desires, identities and the various ways of expressing oneself in the world, everyone who is. It is a system that denies sexual diversity. It comes very late, because don't forget that we are talking about denied rights, and many people have been waiting to live and express themselves without hindrance and fear. At the time we recalled that we were not going to support anything that involved going back on the issue of rights. We therefore call on the Socialist Group to withdraw the amendments limiting the rights of minors between 12 and 14 years of age to self-determination of their identity and to restrict the rights of immigrant LGBT people. They did not withdraw them, but neither did they have the necessary votes to take them forward, and we rejoice greatly. Moreover, our group, together with other groups that we are here, made our own the demands of the LGTB collectives, jointly submitting several amendments which the Socialist Group, with its roll-call vote, prevented them from being included in the opinion and which had clearly improved the text of the law. Our group has tabled amendments aimed at taking into account the LGTB collectives organized in the Council for the Participation of LGBT People, since they have been fighting for rights for years; also aimed at encouraging specialized training for inspection staff in the workplace, if they really want to ensure effective compliance with equal treatment and non-discrimination at work. We also see the need for recognition, recovery and dissemination of the memory of the people of the LGTB movement. Unfortunately, that roll that I mentioned from the Socialist Group did not allow it, and it was in their hands that it had been incorporated into the law; memory to know the truth, to do justice and to ensure that there was no repetition. They won't stop me from having a special memory for Vicente Vadillo, Francis, young income trans murdered in 1979 by a cop. [[Applauds]] Or for Sonia Rescalvo Zafra, a transgender woman murdered by a fascist group in 1991 in Barcelona. Both murders marked milestones in the struggle of the LGTB collective in Euskal Herria and the rest of the state. Moreover, we recognize that this law represents progress on issues that already in our laws adopted in the parliaments of the Foral Community of Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community are collected, such as gender self-determination and treatment of minors in this area; the prohibition of any therapy, material or platform that makes it possible to convert therapies and to limit LGBT-phobia and situations of harassment and violence, among other issues. It provides educational tools for the training of participants in the lives of LGBT people and for prevention in the educational community as well as in health systems, the judicial system, the media and digital platforms. They also take into account a crucial principle, which changes the prism through which people's sexual reality is seen and perceived, the principle of depathology, which, together with feminist pedagogy and sexual education, will provide an important impetus in education, in the diversity of identities and desires; ultimately, in respect for and recognition of diversity. I repeat, it represents an advance in rights, without eliminating or questioning the already effective rights of other people. That is what it is about, to guarantee the rights of all people, without distinction. We admit that there are pending claims that have not been covered by this law, such as the legal recognition of non-binary persons or the elimination of conditioning and obstacles to the realization of their right to gender self-determination by minors or the overcoming of the difficulties faced by immigrants who have been fleeing LGBTphobia from their countries. In this last subject, we have met once again with the law of alienation. We are committed to continuing to fight for these rights to be realized. I would like to conclude this intervention by recalling that stereotypes, prejudices and lies cast by certain political groups and specific entities in the media and debates have only facilitated a climate of hatred and violence against LGBT people. This law will help to limit attitudes like these and those who feed them. Let us realize a law that will end the calvary of so many people. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u268	Thank you, Madam President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we come to the end of the process of this controversial law; a law that seeks only to solve an injustice, to turn into law a reality that, unfortunately, has been hidden and denigrated, a persecuted reality, an offended reality in their rights, and that today, fortunately, will become law and law. And all this thanks to the constant struggle of LGBTI and trans people; some of them are in the guest gallery, so we thank them for all their struggle for so many years to achieve these rights. What are the objectives of the law? First, to guarantee and promote the right to real and effective equality of lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and intersex persons and their families. Secondly, to lay down the principles of action by the public authorities with measures aimed at the prevention, correction and elimination of all forms of discrimination. And thirdly, regulate the procedure and requirements for the registration of sex and, where appropriate, the names of transgender persons. Obviously, this law is a comprehensive law that covers many issues, some of which have already been said, but we must not forget that this law must fulfil the functions of the State; that is, those which cannot be legislated by the autonomous communities. Obviously, the question of the requirements for registrar rectification falls to the State, but some autonomous communities, such as Euskadi, have long been legislating on rights and so that trans, gay and lesbian people can have access, non-discrimination, etc., and Euskadi is one of them. I think it is one of the most legislated matters - we are already in the second law, in this sense, in Euskadi - and more advanced on this issue. And we do not understand that there are groups that, instead of going forward, propose that we go backwards. In social realities, such as in Euskadi, for example, the attitudes of some groups are incomprehensible, who are constantly raising objections and complaints about the possibility of these people acquiring rights. I do not understand, for example, how they can have certain attitudes towards what is peacefully being legislated, but acting on the part of civil society in places like Euskadi. We have tabled amendments and we keep some of them alive. Some of us have withdrawn them, but all of us who keep alive what they say is only: Very well State, act where it belongs, but, wherever our area of competence is, let the competent autonomous communities regulate these matters. We have seen that some amendments which say that have been accepted and other amendments which say that no. And I say, how is it possible that in matters such as education or health they say no, when we are competent in this matter? I understand that the state government wants to take muscle and say that it is competent in this, but then, on a day-to-day basis, we have to see how this whole issue is regulated. We have tabled - as other colleagues have already said - other joint amendments, between very diverse groups of ideology. These amendments came directly from the groups and families of the trans world, gay and lesbian, who told us that, please, we introduced these issues so that they are in the law, because they were important. We have collected them and, unfortunately, many of them have not been able to move forward, because a large group has prevented it. It's a shame, because it was a petition from the collectives and the families. Problems along the way we've had many, but you can't solve them by closing your eyes. As I was saying the other day when we were dealing with abortion here, by closing our eyes there are no fewer abortions. For by closing the eyes there are no fewer trans people, by closing the eyes there are no less homosexual people. Besides, what does it have to be for? It seems that we are trying here to encourage transsexuality, as I remember being said in the discussion. And I was wondering, what is it like to encourage transsexuality? And I ask: And if so, what problem is there in encouraging transsexuality? I ask, because no one has been able to answer me, since the responder says that this is a pathology. Therefore, the great leap that has taken place here, and not only in this law, but previously in some places, is depathology; that is, it ceases to be a disease to become an identity. I understand that some ideological groups and environments view identity or certain identities as a disease; whenever they are not certain identities, all others are always sick. This law does not prevent anything or go against anyone. It's about rights. There are no female erasers or eccentricities of anyone becoming a woman to win a tournament, as I have heard. A little respect for the people who live their reality and their sexual identity in another way, let us not frivolize with such serious things. I mean, are we gonna stop making a law because of a dressing room problem or some subsidies? Please, let's be more serious. I think this is the answer to a reality. No one questions gender-based violence or anything like that. They are obsessions with mindsets that have become old. We cannot legislate with criteria of the past the reality that we are going to leave our young people and our young people in the future. Youth sees things with much less problems than those we see and understand a social reality that, surely, for many of us here remains a little short. We appreciate the collective struggle. We thank you. We wish you a happy life in a happy body, happily loving whom you love and feeling happy as you feel. In this world it's about being happy without making anyone unhappy...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u269	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u270	..., although it seems to some - I finish, Madam President - what makes them unhappy is that others are happy. Merry Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u271	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u272	Thank you, President. Today should be an important day for all those who defend the freedom and equality of citizenship, specifically of the LGBTI people, of the trans people, who accompany us this afternoon and to whom I greet. But we must also take into account and be realistic, because the Government has not lived up to the circumstances. An opportunity is lost to offer LGBT people and people through comprehensive legislation, guaranteed legislation, legislation that addresses the problems faced by this group of people and also strengthens the exercise of their rights. The government of PSOE and Podemos has preferred to arrogate the representativeness of trans people, who are not the property of any party, and have transferred to the text of their law - we must be aware - internal disputes. This, on issues of equality - I have said it many times - is absolutely not conducive to the social response. It has been quickly legislated, with no consensus, with also lack of legal rigour in this House, in parliamentary activity. I have to say this is the first time I've faced a paper the same day it opens closes. That is how we have worked on this legislative framework, and I think it is important to say so, because I believe that legal rigour also deserves working time. As a parliamentarian I must say that I do not agree with the process that has been used for the work of a law that is necessary, that has to be very well worked out and that, moreover, it must reflect socially consensus, agreement and good doing. There are many flaws that have been made, as I say, until we get here, but there is one that is flagrant, and it is its sluggish processing. It seems to me that, being one of the main laws of our democracy, it does not deserve a sluggish treatment. In addition, I do not think there is any justification for avoiding certain parliamentary procedures, for overstepping the rights of the opposition or for twisting the Rules of Procedure of this House, which is what you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and ladies and gentlemen of Podemos have done. I think it is important that we talk about the need to address the reality of LGBT people and trans people. I think it is very important to take into account what your real needs are. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group is aware of what its real needs are. I believe that we are faced with an important advance in rights when the LGBTI and trans people are depathized once and for all. He believed that one of the main recognitions we had to make was depathology. We've always agreed. We have always been in agreement with gender self-determination, we have always been in agreement that trans women at no time left a single woman. Of course we are aware of the progress in rights that this legislation entails, of course we see it, but I also believe that legislation could be more secure, and that is where the amendments that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group put forward pointed out. We bet on a guarantee in the procedure itself for the recognition of gender self-determination in the Civil Registry. We wanted to improve it, we wanted to take into account greater protection of the situation of minors, more information to parents. But it has been impossible in this process of processing to be able to speak, to be able to dialogue, to arrive at consensual positions that, in the end, bring legal rigour to the norm, which I believe is very relevant at the moment we are here. Another of our amendments concerned the area of health care. We wanted to end the difference that existed between one and the other autonomous communities so that everyone would have the same rights throughout the Spanish territory. What we wanted was for the interterritorial council to agree on a protocol, an action that unifies and guarantees the rights of LGBTI and transgender people throughout the territory. But you didn't want to hear it either. Similarly, we are committed to specific regulation in the field of sport. Nor was it intended to listen; moreover, we have not even been able to work on it with the procedure that has been put in place. Trans people deserve guaranteed legislation, driven by people who don't shake their wrists when dealing with issues of vital importance to our citizens. Trans people need to be demonstrated in the field of unemployment, because they are among the groups with the greatest social rejection and suffer greater discrimination in the field of employment. We are aware that there are actions that we need to improve. Furthermore, we believe that this proposal should have been offered to society, not as a confrontation of those who carry this kind of flag within the Government itself, not as a confrontation and without almost any dialogue. I think that, in the causes of equality, weak favor we do - I praise on more than one occasion - if we do not offer a unified and cohesive look at our society, because not everyone in our society is sensitive to the causes, and parliamentary reflection is very important. I believe that we, where we have ruled, in Madrid or Andalusia, have always promoted guaranteed legislation on LGBTI and trans. Therefore, there is no doubt that we are in favour of the progress that this legislation represents, but not of the legal abuse that is regulated in this House. We believe that this legislation should be improved, and we are not being heard, we are not being heard from the rest of the parliamentary groups. It is therefore a bitter sweet taste because, on the one hand, I believe that there is an advance in recognition of rights, but, on the other hand, I believe that neither the House nor the Ministry nor the Government have given the answer that this just cause deserved. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u273	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u274	Thank you, Madam President. Just a minute. The BNG was always on the side of trans people in the struggle for the recognition of their rights, from the impulse to a parliamentary initiative in 1999 or actively supporting the ILP registered in 2017 in the Galician Parliament, to permanent participation in the street in all mobilizations that claim rights for the LGBT collective. We are, too, right now. This law, without being perfect, allows for progress in the rights of trans people. We, in addition to those registered with other political forces and which were driven by trans collectives, tabled thirty-four amendments in order to improve the initial text and guarantee, in fact, rights. Unfortunately, only two were incorporated. The result does not fully satisfy us, but we also appreciate that at least there would be no setbacks in the processing process, which was, as we know, a risk that was there. The BNG is convinced that gaining new rights for people who today suffer violence and discrimination strengthens and strengthens the rights of all. That is why we shall vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u276	Today I would like to give my speech to Guillem Montoro, the first trans councillor of the Spanish State, so I will read your words. After tireless decades of struggle, the adoption of this text will undoubtedly mark an important change for the lives of trans and LGTBI people, a step forward to achieve real equality. I want today to be a reminder of our lives. Contrary to what some insist on showing, they deserve to be lived, heard, seen and celebrated. Trans people deserve the right to build a decent life project. Without fear and from depathology, we deserve to be able to occupy spaces that write stories about us, have lives that are worth living, telling and sharing. We deserve to have the right to our own identity, to recognize ourselves in our bodies and to be recognized or, what is the same, the right to be. We cannot forget that this law leaves on the way many people who have also struggled to make this possible, non-binary people or those under the age of 12, the great forgotten, with whom we have a debt. I would like to take advantage of this speaker that today I am allowed to remember Ana Cano, Melu, a trans-Valencian activist who left her life on her way to equality so that other people could enjoy the rights she never had. Here's the trans resistance. For all the Guillems, for all the Melus, yes to the trans law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u277	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u278	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a society is as free as it is free for those who have it most difficult in it. That is why the law we pass today makes us a better country, because it seeks to ensure that there are no first and second Spaniards, because it seeks that no one be humiliated because he is who he is and because it seeks that those who suffer the most can have a different life. I believe that even you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, know that today there are people who suffer more because of being trans, you know that this law responds to your demands and to the struggle of your collectives and you know that it is aimed at fighting this daily suffering and discrimination without, therefore, anyone coming out losing, and yet you are going to vote no. That is morally and politically incomprehensible. That is why this debate you have already lost on the street and that is why you are going to lose it today here and, fortunately, there will be trans law. I suspect, then, that you may think of using your ace in the manga, the same ace as usual, to appeal this law, to appeal this law to the Constitutional Court, to make them win with traps what they lose with the votes. They've done it many other times. The far right has already resorted to the Zerolo law or the trans law itself in the Canary Islands. What happens is that if something has become clear to the Spaniards these days is that you have the high courts in rebellion with the expired mandate, precisely for things like this, precisely so that what you lose here will stick it there. You are in your perfect right to go to the Constitutional Court, but know that your wild card is out. By the time the appeal arrives, the Constitutional Court will no longer be kidnapped. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u279	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Finally, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u280	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, guests, colleagues, we are going to vote in favour of the Trans law because I have not been erased as a woman, I have been reaffirmed as a person. Thank you. From that place we say that we welcome that the 16-year-olds can request, before the Civil Registry, the rectification of the mention of sex, that between 14 and 16 years of age such rectification can also be requested with the assistance of the legal representative or that they can have a legal defender in case of disagreement between the child and his or her parents or guardians, always - always - taking into account the superior good of the child, his or her right to the free development of personality. But for children aged 12 to 14 the text of the draft provides that they must submit to voluntary jurisdiction, i.e. that it must be a judge who decides for them, if he considers that their transsexuality is stable and that they are mature enough to make that decision to request sex change in the register. In view of the Senate's proceedings, I would ask that the possibility of extending the margin of confidence in respect of these minors be considered, in the light of, again, a right recognized in international human rights conventions, which calls for no age limits in self-determination and that the personal circumstances of individuals must take precedence over the mechanical application of the law; a line that has also been remembered - Constitutional Court judgment 99/2019. We have already said during the Commission - we must stress here today - that the vast majority of boys and girls know, from an early age, what they are and how they feel. We will continue to demand that, when new policies are put in place from the central administration, they also give resources to the autonomous communities. The protection of confidentiality in information on persons seeking asylum in the Spanish State for belonging to the LGTB collective and being persecuted for this reason in their country of origin is also pending. According to the UN - it is good to remember - sixty-nine countries consider the collective member LGTBI to be a crime, in six of them they are punished with the death penalty and in all of them they are persecuted, especially the trans. May the law we pass today be a cry for freedom, thinking of all of them and all of them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u281	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u282	Thank you very much, President. The president will cut me, because I have too much text. I'll try to be quick and say everything I want to say, because they're other people's words, not mine. Thanks to all the entities and people who are here today. This law is yours, it is here for you and - I will say one thing now that is very important - for all the victims of hatred. Go for you this law Thank you Also esteemed Pilar Vallugera, Claudia González, Ana Llorens, Ramon Soldan. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. When the 2007 law was passed, with the support of Esquerra Republicana, we denounced everything that PSOE left out then, knowing that it was insufficient, excluding trans minors, migrants and non-binaries. Time gave us reason. Today again we denounce everything that the PSOE wants to leave out of this law, knowing that it is insufficient and again excluding the same people. Time will give us reason. The law is progressing, but it is not enough; from today the struggle begins to continue to defend what you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, have rejected, the rights that are still pending. As the companion Judith Juanhuix said, in the background the objective of this law is that gender and sex, now tools of oppression, become spaces of freedom, and here lies the only danger of this law, the contagion of this freedom. The lives of this free LGTB A+ spread their freedom to all our lives, whatever they may be. This law is the struggle of a generation, but more generations will come, more rights will come and more laws will come and the gaps that we see today and those that we do not see will be filled. As the company Clara Palau said, trans people are not expected, we appear, we have come to stay, stand up and not move. Esquerra Republicana tabled a specific amendment for trans childhood and adolescence. In 2007, this House decided that trans-childhood did not exist. Twelve years later, the Constitutional Court highlighted a law that had expired and ruled that excluding recognition of minors was discrimination. Fifteen years later, its existence is being recognized in a law. It is an average recognition, made from ageism, the cisexism, limiting rights by age, from the belief that being cis is better than being trans. Despite this, the families that have left their skins, the entities too, so that their 'children' see their rights recognized know that they have won in the street, in society and that, as much as a part of this House strives to protect a classification system that does not work, that is expired, trans children exist and resist and are going to change the world, and are already changing it thanks to all the compañeras of 'Euforia. Trans-Allied Families'. Esquerra Republicana proposed specific amendments by trans-migrants, so that the change of name, registered sex and documents issued by Spain would enjoy all the guarantees. As the law is drafted,if there is a registration procedure in the country of origin, in practice it may be very complicated and not within the reach of anyone. The rights of trans-migrants cannot be tolerated to maintain a double stigma, to be trans-migrant and to be migrants, making their rights dependent on the countries from which they flee and that they never guaranteed the recognition or protection they deserve. Thanks to Kifkif's companies. Left Republican also tabled specific amendments for non-binary people. It is indecency that the amendment on the inclusion of non-binary trans-nationals is not accepted. Not to include the part of the trans collective is to generate dynamics of power and privileges within it. What would have happened if the law of equal marriage had excluded women and only men could marry? A law that does not include all trans realities is a law that is born wrong, that disregards international regulations and the recommendations of the European Union. By the way, I want to thank No Binarys Spain and Darko Decimavilla for their struggle. Dear Mar Cambrolllé and dear Platform After, thank you so much for your enormous work. Democracy, the State and society have a historic debt to trans people. They were the most abused by dictatorship and post-Franchism and have been the great forgotten of democracy. This law is late for the institutions, because society has made progress in respect for and support for the equality of trans people. As all surveys and surveys reflect, there is a great social and political consensus, and that is why we are here. We are more the political forces committed to the equality of all and 'all', minister. This law represents the most important advance in forty-four years of democracy, says Mar. In the last two or three years, trans people have been subjected to a storm of brutal violence, but behind every storm always - always - the rainbow arrives. That's what Mar always says. We will go wherever, next to the entities, next to the people, seeking the guarantee and defense of the human rights of all people of the LGTB AP+ collective until the end, for the rights of all and 'all'. It's for you, dear Sonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u283	Thank you very much, Mr Carvahlo. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u284	Very exciting. I will also try to adjust to time, President. Thank you, good afternoon. Some people can't afford not to put the body in. The writer Roberta Marrero signs this sentence, which has been around me ever since. Not putting the body is a privilege in front of those who can't stop doing it. Today I think about the adoption of this bill for the real and effective equality of trans people and for the guarantee of the rights of LGBT people, because it is finally going to be law. Something I have mentioned on other occasions has been highlighted by the People's Party with the day that last week organized in this House to talk about this law and where the great absentees were, once again, the trans people. How can we discuss the relevance or not of a law that seeks to guarantee rights without those who are going to be the holders of those rights? That there is not a single trans-European person present as a Member - because, look, they are present, thank you - should not already be eloquent enough in this House to see that we are not at all faced with a situation of equality? Therefore, because this law is well known, because many organizations have denied in these months every infamous bull, is why I want, in the time that allows me this rostrum, which is a privilege, - because I deduce that if I were a woman cis would not be here, and to the facts I refer -, that they are present. I want all the genealogy of struggle that is a complete example, that is the memory of Sonia Rescalvo Zafra, murdered thirty-one years ago in Barcelona; of Paloma Barreto, murdered in Avilés in 2019; of Ekai, who left us in 2018 in Euskadi. Already in 2019, Spain was considered the second European country with more murders of trans people. The evolution of hate crimes in Spain, according to the Ministry of the Interior in the 2019 report, involves 1706 hate crimes and, of them, 278 were due to sexual orientation and gender identity, that is, 16.3%, the third cause of hate crimes. This lawyer Charo Alises - as journalist Noemi López Trujillo gathers - considers it the narrative of terror, because it not only affects those who suffer aggression - let us remember that these complaints are the tip of the iceberg, since it is estimated that there is an immense majority of phobic LGTB aggressions that are not denounced -, it affects all those who feel afraid and feel alibied in their identity, expression or experience. This law comes to write another narrative in the BOE, because other stories and other lives are always being written; stories that are referent to many and that should be referent to all, and I will allow myself in these minutes to tell them mine. They are reference, inside and outside Galicia, Marcela and Elisa, that manless marriage, as Emilia Pardo Bazán wrote recognizing the courage and profound social change that meant seeing two people convinced to live their love above all dogmas in the early years of the twentieth century. It is Ocaña reference, artist and example of resistance during franchising. It is reference Boti García, fighter, activist, writer, incombustible, example of how to fight for what one believes, lives and defends without losing the smile, tenderness and endurance. This now makes her Director General of Sexual Diversity and LGBTI Rights in the Ministry of Equality. Thank you for that, Boti. It is a reference to Pedro Zerolo, to whom we owe one of the toughest things in politics: to defend ideas above party discipline. Much, much we owe the LGTBI community. It is tireless reference to the Cambrolllé Sea, which is behind the first version of the trans law and since then, telephones, columns of opinion, demonstrations - what I will tell you, Mar -. Thank you for fighting to make it law with the Trans Platform. It's gonna be law now, Mar. [[Rumors]] Sorry, there's a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u285	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u286	It is Maribel Torregrosa reference; in every manifestation of 28-S, 25-N, 8-M, she has been there. Reference is made to the persons who are in the FELGTB and who have been: Jesus, Uge, Iñaki, Mané; in the Triangle Foundation: Joseph; in Chrysallis: Aingeru; in Not Therapy: Saul; in KifKif; in Euforia and those of Xega, Disex, Llar Trans, Facando Camino, Benamics, neither Peras nor Apples, as well as in Asturias, Balearics, Murcia, Euskadi and Catalonia. It's a reference to my partner, and friend, Aitzole Araneta, councilwoman in Donosti, from whom I've learned a lot, more than she thinks. They are references to those who have endured the attacks in these hard, very hard years, because to us - to me, Sara Giménez, who I do not know now where she is, and to socialist comrades like Rachel - they have pointed out to us with our face and our name, that I am not very clear that this is very feminist, to vote and defend this law. By the way, since this curro is not done alone, they will also make an infographic to my partner Lucía Muñoz Dalda, who is also a maker of this law, because we will look very proud. But it turns out that these days they have written to me - and I know that not only to me - to thank me for the endurance. This is nothing. This is because I am questioned by my political position, which is nothing other than that of defending human rights conviction, because I am not even questioned as bisexual by the blissful passing of being cis - I imagine -. It is nothing in front of what you endure who you see questioned for being who you are. I wish never again in this country. I wish never again a single violence that denies you, that denies anyone because he is who he is. I wish less ignorance, more respect and more humanity. [[Applauds]] That's why it's a reference bookstore like Mary Read, which has endured paints and treacherous attacks, like Berkana, which has been making history for all of us. That is why it refers to a trans childhood and adolescence, which teaches us a great deal when we listen to it, and there are proper names there too, and they also know it. The media drags like Killer Queen, who knows that the drag is political and the local drags like London, are referenced, and they're going to allow me to say that as a xixon. They are referents who have written and written - and will not give me time to everything -, have sung, have painted: Aixa de la Cruz, Sara Torres, Lys Duval, Bob Pop, Alana Portero, Miguel Rual, Víctor Mora, Itziar Castro, Carla Berrocal, Rubén Serrano, Gema Nieto, Gabriela Wiener, Melo, Ángelo Néstore, Brigitte Vasallo, GloriaFortún, Rodrigo Cuevas; also Miguel Molina, Lola Flores, la Veneno and Valeria Vegas, and the Minister of Equality and their team, who have believed since the first day that this law is to establish, not only new rights, but the legal foundations of a society that is already and wants to be recognized. Thank you, Irene Montero, for the endurance. I'm done, President. He is a reference of freedom in Cimavilla, in Gijón, Rambal, a neighbor who lived as he wanted inside Cimavilla, because outside of there he did not want to bother an Asturias who was still Francoist, who danced, seven dressed, was cheerful, and who they murdered with terrible brutality...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u287	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u288	I'm done. ... in a crime that goes on decades later without being solved. I had to shut up for a moment. Let me finish in a moment, President. By the memory of those who were, by a dignified and free life for those who are and are, by removing the stones on the way for those who come, because at last we can, as Alana Portero wrote more than a year ago, dance one day on the bears of the terminal world of hatred and cruelty. It's going to be law, admired companions, and we're not going to fall for it. It's gonna be law, so I hope you're wearing your shoes, because it's our turn to dance. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u289	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Romero Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u290	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Dr. Santiago Ramón and Cajal said that the worst thing is not to make a mistake, but to try to justify it instead of taking it as a providential warning of our lightness or ignorance. This Government, in the light of the events, is more than justified by the error that I will make of it, because, ladies and gentlemen of the left, there can be no worse rule and no more harm done in such a short space of time. We are living a black December from deception and imposition, with legislative reforms running all over, seriously harming the country, our democracy, our rule of law, the separation of powers, amending the Criminal Code with an express reform, image and resemblance of corrupt and independentists, exceeding all red lines, with the consequent stalemate of the Constitution and of Europe. [[applause]] Again, with the reports against, they bring us this trans bill, in haste, without listening to anyone, without counting the professionals - to whom, by the way, they intend to manipulate to impose their ideology - and without calculating the terrible consequences that this law will bring again. Has it not served as a precedent for what has happened with the law of the self? There are 119 aggressors and rapists who have seen their convictions reduced, more than twenty, incarcerated, on the street. How long? When will this barbarity and suffering of victims of sexual assault stop? [[Applauds]] With one case and a little bit of shame, Mrs Montero should have resigned weeks ago or President Sánchez should have ceased, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, are also responsible for being warned. [[Applauds]] Well, this trans law they bring us is a déjà vu. Mrs. Montero, legislating is not going to put on mariliendre t-shirts and insult the judges. A law of such significance as this requires a serious, calm and calm debate with the whole of society. We are talking about the processing of a law with which you have disagreed professionals, doctors, associations of mothers with daughters with gender dysphoria, feminist associations, companions also of you, of the Socialist Party, who call for a calm, calm debate, where everyone is taken into account. They refused to listen in the Equality Commission itself - by the way, Mrs de Podemos said - where we called for all the agents, all the experts and all the voices to have participated. That is why my parliamentary group, in an exercise of responsibility, opened the Congress, the Constitutional Chamber, to listen to experts, to listen to mothers, to listen. Today we are also the speaker of those voices. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law is tremendously interventionist, punishing, loaded with a sectarian ideology that most Spaniards reject and unprotect the people they should protect. Again, the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary have warned, as it generates contradictions and legal uncertainty. It is a law that dishearses those who warn of the problems that are going to arise from the gender correction with only the will of the person; a law that is born without social consensus, without political consensus. You, members, deputies and deputies of government parties, who stand up and call themselves feminists: this is not a feminist law. Feminist associations have said this, which claim not to back down in the conquest of women's rights - which is what this law is going to lead to - by invisiating this struggle, the gap in inequalities and gender-based violence. It's troubling. But this parliamentary group is also concerned, especially, about the impact this law will have on minors, on adolescents, very vulnerable stages, stages that need much support because they are more influenced by their environment. They want to leave them alone, not be helped; they want these decisions to be made without any security. Accompanying is necessary to prevent them from taking wrong paths, so that they can take them with full guarantees. What will happen when a minor in full adolescence undergoes therapy or sex change treatment, which will be irreversible, and later repents? Do you know who's going to pay for these mistakes in this law? In the words of the president of the Association of Mothers of Adolescents and Girls with Gender Dysphoria, the errors of this law will be paid for by the bodies of our daughters. It's trembling. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, what happened to your amendments? What happened to those amendments that they brought in to protect children between the ages of 12 and 16 who said they were to protect them, to have more guarantees, to make it constitutional, as Mrs Calvo said? And now they refuse to table the amendments. Why do you kneel before your government partners, before Podemos? Why do they claudiate like that? Why do they renounce their own principles? [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the price they intend to pay is too high just for Sánchez to remain in Moncloa. It's very sad, it's an absolute shame. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we have to provide legal instruments to support adolescents with gender dysphoria; of course we have to fight for the non-discrimination of LGBTI people; of course we have to be strong against the harassment; of course we have to educate on respect and inclusion, but with laws that give security. Look at what has happened in Finland, Sweden and the United Kingdom, which have put in place laws like this, and they are right now, precisely, retreating from the negative consequences that it has had. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a bad legislature for Spain. Mr Sánchez's mistakes are being paid by the Spanish, but especially by the most vulnerable, in this case women and minors. I would like to thank the People's Parliamentary Group, my fellow speaker, Maria Jesús Moro, for the opportunity to set the position of my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u291	Mrs. Romero, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u292	I finish with one last sentence, Madam President. We are firm and convinced to vote against this law, which is not good for trans people, women or minors. And I do it as a Member of the People's Party, but I also do it as a woman, as a mother of the son and of a daughter and, of course, also firm and convinced that what is urgent is to call elections and let us get out of this political nightmare. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u293	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor on behalf of the VOX Group. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u294	With the venom. Gender ideology is the road map of this Government. This ideology destroys human nature and is based on the idea that my desire is the law, even if fundamental rights and lives are taken forward. The law is the paradigm of that dictatorship of desires, because it will allow people to be treated, legally and socially, how they feel sexually, and not as what they really are. This sectarian bodrio, rejected also by her feminist comrades, minister, who ignores biology for the sake of gender, a concept that does not exist in people, does not intend to help homosexual or trans people, what it seeks is to change and destroy society, destroying and changing the serhuman, using the suffering of people who do not feel identified with their biological sex to impose their ideology. [[Applauds]] But the bloodiest part of this law is children, and ensuring the protection of children means helping parents to protect and guide them. They want 12-year-olds, who are not mature enough to drive or vote, who need permission from their parents to go on a zoo tour with the school, to decide on their bodies to abort and to get hormone and mutilate. With this law they are limiting parental parental authority in circumstances where children need them more than ever. Instead of helping parents, they are eliminating them from the equation, as if the family were not the most important shelter for a child. [[Applauds]] Cases of dysphoria, i.e. of children who reject their bodies and seek a different physical and sexual aesthetics, have always been very few, and most children. Now, apparently, there is more and more, for one reason: for the trans propaganda of governments like this, which indoctrines them with talks, which are 1, in schools and on social networks. [[corruption of minors]] [[Applauds]] To that, there follows an infamous pressure on adults, which makes them believe that the only solution to their problems is to be trans. I give the example of Primary Care in Catalonia, where the hormone is prescribed for 87% of the cases during the first visit. Ladies and gentlemen, a child who rejects his body is a child who suffers, is a child without self-esteem, who feels unhappy, who in many cases has family problems, who has suffered abuse, bullying, anorexia, and therefore rejects his body, not his sexual identity. What this child needs is to be heard and cared for; he needs a full, multidisciplinary medical diagnosis, which includes a physical and psychological assessment to study his emotional problems, which are most of the time the origin of dysphoria. There is already experience of what this dysphoria caused by indoctrination or fashions means for children and families. In the United States, in just four years, from 2017 to 2021, cases of false dysphoria nearly tripled, from 15,000 cases to 42,000 and nearly 5,000 adolescents took puberty blockers. The problem is that you, minister, propose to teenagers a path without return, when they are simply under the influence of fashions or having a teen with problems. The repentance of these children or the chronic health and psychological problems that drag any trans person are uncomfortable realities that you don't want to hear, and that's why you accuse us of transphobia. [[Applauds]] Despite having been warned by many health professionals and medical institutions that the child has no capacity to understand the consequences of his or her decision in the short and long term, less the legal ones, and that the law puts the physical and mental health of the children at risk, you have not listened to anyone, even forcing psychologists and doctors to accept a child's self-diagnosis, as if a doctor had to diet an anorexic girl because she feels fat. 1 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Remove the blindfold, in this case remove the blue, pink and white flag, and go to the real causes of the problem, which there are many lives at stake. But the dramatic reality is that you, Mrs. Montero, children care about a curse. That's why he ignores them when they are kidnapped, abused, even murdered by a woman, so he promotes as a right to put children in his mother's womb and that's why this law seeks to indoctrinate them and push them into transsexuality. You only care about children as necessary pawns in your social engineering project. That is why it needs 2, to encourage them to have sex and destroy their identity and sexuality, separating them from their family and their parents' values. [[corrupt them sexually]] [[Applauds]] They want an alienated society based on unicorns, but reality is silly, ladies and gentlemen, and let's not say biology. As much as they manipulate language, by many unscientific laws they enact, grass remains green, boys have penis and vagina girls. [[Applauds]] The People's Party, by the way, will have to look at its bipolarity by criticizing and rejecting this law today, when in the Community of Madrid they enacted and maintain a similar law. When you don't have convictions, you get these inconsistencies. [[Applauds]] Only with consistency and truth can we help people who suffer and who do not feel identified with their body. Know one thing: we love these people more, because we don't care who they sleep with or what they feel. We believe in the dignity of all people, especially those who deserve support and help, because they suffer. We want them more because we reject any paternalism and condescension, as this law does to give privileges in the workplace and other areas to people because they are homosexual or trans, as if they were inferior. We want them more because we consider them the same. [[Applauds]] But as much as you work to destroy the person, the family and our society, we will rebuild it. Because the truth is still there, the truth is an incredibly resistant plant that grows in the dark and hangs through any hole. As long as that seed of truth is there, it cannot be expelled from Parliament, even if it causes scandal, as long as that seed remains in our lives and in our families and as long as there is someone who defends it, and that someone is VOX. We are the only ones who fight for the truth, for the equality and dignity of all, and we will give this battle not against anyone, but for us, for you, for our children and also for yours. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Toscano. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u296	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I can only begin my speech by showing my support and solidarity with all the people who have been able to feel attacked today because they are who they are, given the words we have just heard. [[Applauds]] To each and every one of them I would like to express our support from this rostrum and also our commitment to making firm progress in rights. Having said that, he spoke to his lordships of the People's Party. Unfortunately on this subject you have found a controversy and see again a car to climb to. You have again missed an opportunity to work in positive for LGBT people and also, therefore, for Spain. As they have always done on issues like this, they will join in progress in the future and will deny their own words. You're talking about appearances. I'll remind you of one in line with the positions you stand for now. Do you remember when in 2005 you brought an expert to the Senate who denounced homosexuality as a disease? [[Rumors]] Although you now want to dress up as occasional feminists, the truth is that you seem to have taken advantage of it to dedust your most reactionary nostalgia. To be a feminist is not to deny the existence of trans people; to be a feminist is to vote in favour of the equality law; to be a feminist is to vote in favour of the abortion law; to work against male violence and not associate with those who deny it; to vote also in favour of equal marriage; and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is to defend, through truly emancipating measures such as the rise of the Vital Minimum Income or public services, the rights of all people; to be a feminist is to defend equal permits, the Vital Minimum Income or labour reform, 2 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. which you are neither in nor expected of. [[Applauds]] The cynicism you show is so obvious that it should blush. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes. PSOE's commitment to a LGTBI law has long been established in our organizational and programmatic commitments. He talked about the commitment to bring forward a law that guarantees the rights of the LGBT collective and trans people, legislation that simply removes those obstacles that prevent these people from exercising their full citizenship status. That is why we have been committed to expanding the range of rights initially offered by this law. We have promoted special protection for trans women in prostitution; we have included more attention to older LGBTI people, who deserve to live their last years compensated for the accumulated suffering; we will also protect those LGBTI people who seek to live on the street, without home or shelter, and the most absolute weather. PSOE is also responsible for the right to filiation of the children of lesbian women's couples, an outstanding debt and a very important advance. We have included for the first time in the history of law in Spain the concept of sexilio, which defines the phenomenon by which LGBTI people must leave their cities or municipalities for a matter of discrimination, and here I want to make a special mention to my colleague Victor Amor. We are certainly proud of the work we have done now and always, with rigour and respect, through a deep debate and above all by giving Parliament the importance it deserves for our democratic system. I have to tell you that the Socialist Party knew and wanted to imagine a better law. We wanted to draw in a more secure way the rights recognized in this rule. We bet to create a more perfect, safer and legally more robust framework. Unfortunately, none of you accompanied us. Our convictions force us to assume that democracy is always won, even when it seems to be lost, because every time we vote we are expressing the balance of wills that we represent here. That is why I am sorry to have heard so many stridentities and so many misuses of this cause, ladies and gentlemen. The PSOE respects the work of this House, it is the scrutiny of this House that we appeal to through the word and not through pressure. We would have liked to have received the same consideration. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, I must say to you, that it is absolutely wrong to accuse my party of agreeing with the right to a retreat in LGBT rights. [[Applauds]] It is a lack of respect for a centenary party that has been essential and decisive in the fight for LGBT rights, not only in Spain, but throughout Europe. By the way, Your Honor Castañón, I have to tell you that Pedro Zerolo never had to be above the voting discipline of his party, because he always had the PSOE with him, always. [[Applauds]] Moreover, I will tell you more, Pedro Zerolo did not follow the voting discipline, he marked it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have the enormous fortune of living in a respectful, open country that always embraces the difference from solidarity. Let us be proud and take care of it, let us preserve that so that Spain continues to put its heart in pioneering the expansion of freedoms. I assure you that among the ordinary people of our country is perfectly compatible feminism with LGBT rights. Ladies and gentlemen, no law solves theoretical debates. The laws establish rights and guarantee them we must direct all our efforts. In that effort, ladies and gentlemen, we will always defend that, in order to achieve equality, the State must be protective and emancipating, not vigilant, and we will always defend the autonomy, dignity and freedom of persons. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs of my group, Marisol and Arnau, for their enormous work and, of course, to thank Raquel Pedraja, who has been indispensable in this law. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank the leadership of my parliamentary group for their patience and my colleagues on the Equality Commission and Víctor Gutiérrez, Secretary LGTBI of the Federal Executive of the PSOE, for their generosity. I also stop to greet all the organizations that are with us today. In more than forty years of democracy the Socialist Party has accompanied and led all the achievements in social rights, and I am sorry for those who hoped that on this occasion we would make an exception. Once again there is a page in our history that will place the PSOE together with those people who have seen their way of living threatened because they are who they are; neither do we fail them in the past nor do we fail them now nor will we fail them in the future. We will always be the party of feminist progress and of the vanguard in rights and freedoms and today we will demonstrate it again. We are the most important group, the most numerous group and a determining group in the adoption of this law. Thank you very much, President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, some of whom have stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u297	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Mr Guijarro García asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Guijarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u298	Madam President, I ask for the floor under Rule 72. The deputy member of the VOX Group has accused the Minister of Equality of a very serious crime, exactly she has accused her of corruption of minors. Please withdraw from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. If so, it will obviously withdraw from the Journal of Sessions. [[Mr. Echenique Robba: That's the way it is.]] On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Equality has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In this plenary we adopt the first law at the state level for the real and effective equality of trans and LGBTI persons. With this law we advance rights and progress as a country. It is a law that, by expanding the rights and opportunities of many people for happiness, improves the lives of all, of all and of 'all', and does better with it our society and also our country. LGBT people have been organizing us for decades, opening closets and making your lives visible proudly to win rights and to take care of each other against the discriminations and violences that continue to mark our lives. In 2007, this struggle, together with the institutional commitment of President Zapatero's Government, made it possible to approve egalitarian marriage. The resistances were enormous, we have memory and we do not forget it, but democracy and happiness were stronger, as is the case today. Today the feminist majority in this House takes that rainbow thread with force to recognize more rights. The law trans and rights LGTBI is for the whole society, it is for our friends, our neighbors, our workmates, our children, our daughters, for the people we love most and also for whom we know nothing. That's why this law we pass today, that all people can build their projects of free life, without fear, without guilt and without discrimination, free and happy. We would not be here if we did not have our bodies loaded with memory, memory to know that what we conquered together today we owe to those who fought it before; memory to honor those who gave their lives determined by the violence and inequalities that we today consider unfair and against which we legislate; memory to learn to fight and to win rights, and memory so that our children and 'children' do not forget, and that this militant learning accompanies, enriches and commits them to continue to win more rights. Today that memory is full of Sonia Rescalvo, Pedro Zerolo, Cristina la Veneno, Samuel, Francis, Ekai, Berkana, Esperanzadas, Dagas, Bruun and those who were repressed and treated as criminals with the law of social danger, the coordinator of homosexual liberation fronts of the Spanish State, the Front d'Allibement Gai de Catalunya, of the first bubbles that reached those and other associations - because it also exists -, of the bi,de las trans, of all those who were multiplying the pride and the capacity of collective organization, of all those who before silence, rejection, stigma or violence before the Law of Vagos and Maleantes filled the streets, bars, lasnoches, works and houses of pride and of those who built for themselves and for their loved ones shelters of happiness before so much injustice. And, of course, thanks also to all of you, because we owe it to you, to whom today and tomorrow this rostrum and also the rooms of this house that is yours, the seat of popular sovereignty: Mar Cambrollé, Uge Sangil, Carla Antonelli, José María Núñez, Ana Valenzuela, Carmen García de Merlo, Marina Sáenz, Lucas Platero, Darko Decimavilla, Mané, Paula Iglesias, Alejandro Zarzuelo, Elsa Ramos, Ana Isabel Pastor, José Roberto Murillo, Aitzole Araneta, Raffaella Corrales, Maribel Torregrosa, Eugeni and all, all and 'all' those who are here and also outside this Congress and who in all these years have put the body to bring this law, your law, forward. Thanks to the FELGTB, the Trans Platform, Chrysallis, the Triangle Foundation, Kifkif, Euforia, NoEs Therapy and each and every one of the associations and collectives that from the big cities to the smaller villages you have been so many times the only door open to life and the only friendly hand for many trans and LGTBI lives. Thank you who from the unions - dear Toño -, from journalism, from culture, from schools and institutes and from health centers and hospitals you have defended the rights and lives LGTB and trans. I am proud to know that today this House is up to your struggle and your lives. They will allow me to recognize very especially my dear Boti García Rodrigo, Jesús Generelo and the entire team of the Ministry of Equality so many years of struggle and so many learnings that you have given us. Dear Boti, simply, without you, without you, without being a team, without your determination, without your hours of work and without your intelligence, we would not be here either. And, of course, to all your ladies and gentlemen, those from this Chamber, from the Equality Commission and from every parliamentary group you have worked tirelessly to ensure that the General Courts recognize the trans and LGTBI rights that we are voting for tomorrow. Finally, I would like to acknowledge all those who, asking questions, even doubting, have approached the reality of trans people and LGBT people from respect and from the will to learn, and who have also given a democratic lesson that makes it possible for this to be one of the laws with the most social support of the entire legislature. They have wanted us to believe so many times that we would not get to this vote... You have given so much and you have given so much to achieve what seemed impossible, that I hope you are deeply proud and feel that this Parliament, this society and your country are giving your hand firmly and will never let go again. [[Applauds]] This law repairs a historical debt of the State to trans persons. This law finally depatologizes trans lives and guarantees the right to self-determination of gender identity. As all international bodies recognize, the rights of trans persons are human rights. Trans people are not sick, you are not crazy and you are not monsters or criminals; trans people do not need guardians or witnesses to tell you who you are; trans people are who you are and our duty as a State is to recognize and protect all your rights. And let me remember something obvious, but it must be recorded in the Journal of Sessions: trans women are women. [[Applauds]] We have not been able to prevent transphobia from becoming hollow in the public debate in the process of dealing with this law, and we are very aware of the pain and damage that has caused many trans and LGTB people. I also apologize for the transphobia that you have had to endure today in this rostrum of your home, which is the Congress of Deputies, but today the feminist majority in this House responds to transphobia, hatred and LGBTI-phobia with more rights. [[Applauds]] This law is for all LGBT people, and in this way it is also for all society; this law, as I told you, is for the people we love most and also for those we don't know anything about, and this law is for lesbians, bi,gais and intersex. We know that it should have come a long time ago, but the progress in rights that we have adopted in this House does not go back. This plurinational and feminist country and its peoples and its people feel proud of all of you, you and 'you', and we concretely express that pride in rights. We prohibit conversion, aversion or counter-conditioning therapies in any form, because they violate your most elementary rights. We first legislate fundamental rights for intersex people, such as the right not to suffer any mutilation at birth or the right not to have to be registered with a sex that is not defined during the first months of life. We also recover rights for lesbians, bisexual women and unmarried women, who will again have access to assisted human reproduction techniques after seven years without access to that right in the National Health System due to cuts and setbacks by the People's Party. There is nothing more material than the right to be, to live as you are and not to be afraid of the coffee machine, and for this reason this law pursues things as daily and necessary as you can be in your workplace without anyone discriminating over your sexual orientation or gender identity or going with your girlfriend to see a flat without fear that the landlord will not rent it to you because you are a lesbian or a trans man. We want all LGBTBI people to be able to be who they are, without closets, with this law, and we recognize the full citizenship of all LGBTBI and trans people. This law must continue its process in the Senate, we are already very close to making it a reality. As with all laws, and particularly feminist laws, the path will not end with their final approval. We will go hand in hand to ensure the implementation of each of the points of this law and to make it a reality in every corner of this country and we will continue to give our hand to conquer the rights we know are still lacking. I know that today is a difficult day for non-binary people to celebrate the progress that you have also made, but that you need the legal recognition of your reality. In recent years you have made it possible for a very important part of society to know that you exist and that there is ever more respect and less discrimination, mockery or misunderstanding for your lives and identities, but I am aware that you also need the recognition of your rights. We won't let go of your hand, we know we have to keep moving. And we also know it for trans people and for migrant LGBT people, for asex people and for those lives that are still invisible to society; you will continue to push the transformations that your lives need. Representatives of the trans movement and LGTBI, today your happiness is that of this House and today your emotion has full right to express itself vigorously, because what we vote tomorrow is the result of your struggle, your own determination to live and to be. We always knew that the road was worth it; just trying it was worth it and getting it even more. This law is for each and every one of you, you and 'you', and this law is for all society and for all the country. That you can exercise all your rights makes everyone's life better. I want to end with a few words for trans children and also for their mothers, parents, families and friends: this law is also yours; you are the future, but above all, you are the present and, when this law ends its processing, it will be a present with more rights, so that you grow up in a society that recognizes, cares for and respects you. Never stop opening the way. Ladies and gentlemen, the strength of our democracy is expressed by gaining rights. Especially in these days, asserting democracy in front of the reactionaries inside and outside these walls means conquering rights. Today this Congress closes closets and opens doors and windows to ensure free lives to all trans and LGTB people. Let your struggle live! Thank you. [[Applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand, addressed to the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u301	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you cannot make any demonstration in the rostrum. Please don't clap.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u302	We continue with the opinion on the Securities Markets and Investment Services Bill. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative, I have the floor by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal. [[Pause]] Mrs. Muñoz, are you going to intervene?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u303	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, excuse this delay. That is what has to take more than five interventions in this plenary, which did not know where on the agenda we were. If I have come up a while ago to criticise the legislative procedure that has been carried out with the employment law, I would now like to start this intervention by thanking the Socialist Party and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the rest of the groups in the House, the Commission, the spokespersons, the President and, of course, our dear lawyer for the handling of this bill. [[The lady]] This good predisposition, although it should be the general tonic and the norm in this house, is unfortunately not present in all commissions nor emanates from all ministries. As a result of this good predisposition, we have succeeded in ensuring that, between the paper and the work of the Commission, this rule which we are debating today comes out of Congress better than what came in. For citizens, any reform of securities market regulation must be based on three pillars. Firstly, in the pillar of transparency. One of the main risks in dealing with financial assets and market investment is that we talk about very complex elements, which sometimes makes it difficult to make an accurate assessment of the risks of investing your money in one place or another, a high risk, especially when we talk about small savers. This is why ensuring market transparency is essential to enable all investments to be made with the greatest possible knowledge of their nature and the risks associated with them. Secondly, any regulation must be based on dynamism; a securities market must be dynamic, must be stimulating and must be attractive for it to be ready to participate in it. To this end, their regulation must be rigorous enough to ensure the transparency that we previously spoke of, but also flexible enough to allow the emergence of new types of business models or types of assets that can respond to the needs that are emerging in the Spanish economy. [[The Lord]] Moreover, it must be a market that can look at the stock markets of the countries in our environment on an equal footing. Only being a dynamic market will be able to do so. Thirdly, any regulation of securities markets must foster the momentum of business growth, and here we find our greatest outstanding task. The European business fabric, and especially the Spanish one, are characterized by an excessive dependence on the banking sector for its financing, which, given its lower propensity to take risks, can be a major entry barrier for thousands of companies that, if they obtained initial bank financing, would be viable. This barrier is even more important in the case of innovative small businesses. These, only these, have been our master lines of work throughout the processing of this bill which is very complex and very technical in several respects. As I said at the beginning, many of these characteristics created doubts when starting work, but, thanks to the negotiation, we have reached a consensus and have been able to resolve them. During the work of the Commission and the Commission, an important issue that has been discussed has been the role of financial advisers and their adherence to FOGAIN, or we have also discussed the better incorporation and regulation of distributed registers. However, this has been resolved. I have to defend here some amendments that have remained pending and that I bring to the House and I would like you to reflect on them and on your voting position. We have two amendments for this final debate. One, to give greater autonomy and independence to the National Securities Market Commission, because we want to provide it with a staff system that suits its needs. It is a historical request, I might say, of the organism that follows. It is not subject to the law regulating it but to the law establishing public employment. However, every year in the State's General Budgets it is provided with a budget that prevents it from making independent decisions on personnel matters. It is true that autonomy, also from the control of the Executive, must be guaranteed to this body in order to give greater legal certainty to our financial market, something always desirable in any public body, but essential in the light of the last acts of the Government, just with the CNMV, because it is only worth remembering the case of Indra: they warned the president by shortening his mandate and threatened to change the law. Another issue of the amendments that we are defending and that we have proposed again, as we have been doing for the past two years, is the development of an active Spanish crypto strategy and a high-level cryptoactive forum. Recent developments in the world of this type of asset, cryptos, show that this strategy is more necessary than ever to enhance the development of this type of innovation in Spain in the most secure and transparent way possible. In short, they are amendments that will improve this text and that will come out with the broad consensus that I have been talking about so far in this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u304	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u305	We hope that this law will serve to turn the financial market, Spanish securities markets and investment services upside down and make them more competitive, making them a real catalyst for economic activity and business growth in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u306	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u307	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come, to the relief of my colleague Genís Boadella, who had left in this delicate situation to defend the living amendments to the Securities Market Act. In any case, before this, I want to tell you that I must thank you for the paper's work. Mr President, I know you're very kind to me, but if it takes me time, we'll avoid being here until 9:00 p.m., considering my tendency to run out of time until the last second. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u308	As you were here justifying yourself, you were giving him time to justify yourself. [[Laughter]] You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u309	Thank you so much for your kindness, President. In any case, he said that he wanted to thank all the fellow Members of the Commission who have been in the paper to improve this bill. I would also like to thank the work and willingness of the Secretariat of State and the Secretary of State to engage in the negotiation of these amendments. That makes it possible, when this is the case, to generate a certain consensus which we tend to put much value on in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, since we do not seem to have as much luck in other committees as in this one. I would also like to thank the lawyer and all the staff who have made it possible. I hope that this law can come out with a broad consensus. The Democratic Party has introduced fourteen compromise amendments, two in the paper and twelve in grouping some of them in the Commission. There are many areas that we have corrected, but essentially one, which I believe the Government was also aware of from the outset, those relating to the Investment Guarantee Fund, which created problems, for example, when to join and in what amounts to be developed on a regulatory basis and others which, as I have already explained to you in the Commission, I will not explain here. I am going to endorse all the living amendments, I am going to make some comments on two rather peculiar amendments, if you will, and then I am going to make a comment, and I hope that the President will not be angry with my comment. The amendment with which I wanted to draw your attention is Amendment 73, which seeks to make a small change in the listed companies of real estate investment, SOCIMI, those which actually have their shares listed on the continuous market, so that they can have a specific denomination to differentiate themselves. This does not entail any kind of tax benefit or anything else, beyond the investor's ability to perceive that they actually perform the specific function. Another amendment is 74. Someone can tell me: what is this amendment about? Our parliamentary group tabled this amendment to the Royal Decree Law 3/2020, which you do not remember because it is before the pandemic, but we also have some real decrees laws before the pandemic pending processing. And since it has already been over two years, one loses the hope that it will be dealt with as appropriate and, therefore, we fall into that temptation to introduce into a bill an amendment that has nothing to do, essentially, with the object of the law. It is true that the Constitutional Court, Mr President, has had no inconvenience in that we can deal with it so far and we can even vote on it, although it does not strictly correspond to the object of the law. This amendment, what can you do? What does this amendment intend to do? This Royal Decree Law 3/2020, although some of you have been able to forget it, was a royal decree omnibus law in which different aspects were collected, and there were also some regarding the regulation of insurance. As regards very specific insurance, the unit linked, establishes an asymmetry with respect to the remuneration that can be provided to insurance agents and insurance brokers. What this amendment seeks to do is to normalise this situation and that the remuneration to the insurance brokers can be done in the same way, that is, through the companies and through the insurance agents. Therefore, with your vote and with the permission of the Constitutional Court, I intend to approve this amendment. Thank you very much and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u310	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u311	Thank you, President. Mr Bel, you have convinced us in Amendments Nos 73 and 74; in the rest I cannot guarantee this because you have put no emphasis on your defence. [[Laughs.-Mr.Bel Accensi: With these two I already settle]] Securities Markets and Investment Services Bill. The preamble states that the existence of a transparent and efficient securities market is one of the basic elements of any developed and advanced social market economy. It plays an essential role in allocating financial resources to the economic sectors, investing in productive assets, promoting public savings and opening up the economy externally and integrating it into international financial and trade flows, and a regulatory framework is needed to help build stable, transparent and efficient financial markets and ensure the highest standards of protection for financial services customers and savers. The importance of this law and of this bill is therefore clear. A framework law that aggregates all the changes of the last decade required in most cases from the European Union, which between the consequences of the last financial crisis and the progress and competition of international capital markets has required multiple reforms; reforms that have not yet been completed and that this law will help to integrate. That is why, because of its importance, the People's Party is there, supporting the project, working and striving to improve, as always; well, as always when the Government leaves us, of course. And although sometimes it counts and sometimes it doesn't, as long as we can work for the common good, for the well-being and economic development of Spain. And as we have been able to contribute, agree and improve the project, and as it has been a project in which we have been able to work and deepen, we must thank the Government and the groups that support their willingness and, of course, also the other groups that have worked hard and well in this process. In particular, I would like to speak with my colleague and spokesperson on the Commission, Miguel Ángel Castellón. As Mrs Muñoz said, something that should be commonplace is becoming exceptional, and it is really a pity and has very negative consequences for the country. A project which welcomes amendments and solutions from all the groups, with the preponderance of the ideas of the majority of the House, as is logical, but without sectarianism with the contributions of the rest of the groups. This is the model, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that the Socialist Group and the Confederal Group of the European People's Party will reform and behave in the rest as in the draft laws of this Commission. They'll find us there. It said at first that we need transparent markets with the best protection for savers and investors, and that is why we have worked to ensure that independent financial advisers, who were initially drafted, did not disappear because of their contribution to the Investment Guarantee Fund. As Mr Bel has said, we have not been able to correct their obligation to join FOGAIN, as it is a meaningless obligation for us, since the fund and financial advice are very different in nature. What we were able to correct, because it was impossible, was the amount of the contribution; it was enough to force the majority of them to close. We're glad we could do it, but we don't want to stay there. The disappearance of a third of them in recent years makes it necessary to consider support and promotion measures because, ladies and gentlemen, who is more transparent with savers and investors? Who has the same goals as them? The bank advisors? The advisors to the fund managers? No, the independents. That is why we cannot allow them to continue to disappear, when they should be the majority of those operating in the market. Here we show who we defend each other to. It also said at first that we need efficient markets, and that is why we need to work even more on the regulation of some institutions: collective investment institutions, pension funds, venture capital, etc., and try to shift savings and investment to business finance. The internationalization of capital markets also obliges us to be competitive, because if we are not, foreign investment will not come to our country, and Spanish savings and investment will not stay in Spain either. This means employment, tax collection and better financing for our businesses, objectives that we should all defend. The development and growth of our financial and capital markets is absolutely essential. Here we will continue to contribute, and I hope that the Government will continue to take us into account. In any case, when the Spaniards give us their confidence we will work to improve our competitiveness, do not hesitate. We also miss a little more CNMV independence and some more control in some situations. These three are the issues that we consider should be improved from this draft and we keep four amendments alive: 81, in which we defend the general interest of third parties with regard to non-expendable property; 97, in which we defend our markets against international competition; 98, in which we defend investors by calling for a homogeneous regime, and 99, in which we call for sufficient flexibility for the governing body in the case of infringements. I hope that all groups can support them. Finally, the necessary rules are incorporated to ensure the legal certainty of the representation of securities through distributed registration technology, to allow application in Spain The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on a pilot scheme for market infrastructures based on this technology. Perhaps it was the most complicated part on which we have had to work and on which we have reached agreements with the Government. I hope this work has good results. Finally, I would like to thank, of course, our dear lawyer and the staff of the House for their support in the proceedings, and the representatives who came to move their positions to us. We all think we've done a good job and, of course, I want to wish you all a Merry Christmas and wonderful days in the company of yours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u312	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u313	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Journal of Sessions. Today, in Congress, the express procedure of the Securities Markets Bill, a bill, can be said to be of very large dimensions, more than 190 pages, which, as I said, has been processed in very little time. With this bill the Spanish Government finally carries out part of its outstanding duties, because the text transposes five directives of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021. Finally, I would like to say why Mr Vallvé, on the proposal of Esquerra Republicana - a well-known representative in this field, one of the first professional women in this field of the economy - has already pointed out that the Spanish State is running systematically in delay in the transposition of European directives. According to the Commission's annual report on the application of European Union law to the Spanish State, Spain is the fourth country with the most late transposition infringement procedures launched in the European Union in 2021, just ahead of Italy, Cyprus and Belgium. By the end of 2012, the Spanish State had accumulated a total of 42 procedures opened by late transposition, sharing this also dubious honour with Cyprus, Belgium and the Czech Republic. The question is not just about the fines, the waste, the discredit that, on the other hand, in many other issues the Spanish State also has, the question should be what it has meant during these years for the productive fabric not to do the duties in this field. As a result, there is an overwhelming legal uncertainty, a loss of competitiveness of investment services companies in relation to their competitors located in other countries of the European Union. The opportunity cost of so much delay is countless, and that alone should contain the euphoric self-congratulation speeches, which may have brought certain speakers to this House today. Apart from all this, it is good news that today, here, at the gates of Christmas, we adopt this bill so harmoniously by surprising atmosphere, late, but necessary. Nor can it affect the Socialist Parliamentary Group's submission of 40 amendments on the way forward, which of course have been reinstated without the ability of the groups to amend the resulting new text in a practice which, at the very least, can be regarded as having little aesthetics. Looks like Mr. Bel's feeling it. There you are, but you are already beginning to know how the CT is spent. When the good - understand it, please, the quotes between good and bad - adopt methods of the bad, it makes the good and the bad look more like and win the speech of all are equal, it annoys us all, but it annoys particularly the good. And secondly, they give excuses to the bad guys to challenge. However, thanks are due to the negotiating spirit of the parliamentary groups, which support the Government in negotiating amendments; in our case, we have negotiated the vast majority, with the corresponding objectives, and this has been done with many other parliamentary groups, as has been expressed and will certainly be expressed. The progress we have made in this bill is as follows. Firstly, that all the competences of the autonomous communities on the stock markets are properly reflected in the main body of the norm. On the other hand, we have succeeded in ensuring that the definition of trading centres includes all the multilateral systems authorized to operate both by the CNMV and by the autonomous communities with competence in securities markets, as set out in Article 43.2 (e) of the Royal Legislative Decree, 4/2015, which includes the definition of Spanish regulated markets, those of an autonomous scope that authorize the autonomous communities with competence in this field. Furthermore, although we would have liked to go into more detail in the development of Article 215, with regard to the perception of incentives, we have, however, been able to incorporate a new additional provision with the Government's commitment to develop its content, I hope in the coming months. I make one last point which has also been left to us in the past. A not strictly financial area, one of the main competitive difficulties of our ESI and especially of our collective investment institutions comes from the formal obligations imposed by the Tax Agency, which obliges non-residents to obtain the NIE. That only happens in Spain. They disincentive in such a way that they lead investors to reject their investment in collective institutions in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u314	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u315	We cannot finish any work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs without thanking the tone and fair play of the President of the Bureau, the lawyer and my sincere wishes for a Merry Christmas for all of you and yours. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u317	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. Today we are discussing an extensive, highly complex legislative text, as has already been said, which aims to transpose into national law a number of directives from the European Parliament and the Council. To begin with, I would like to highlight, as has also been done again by other rapporteurs, the proven will of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to open a process of dialogue, not only with the parliamentary groups called to approve and eventually amend and matify this law, but also with different voices of civil society, whose perspectives have tried to incorporate as much as possible into the body and spirit of this law. For example, issues relating to the Investment Guarantee Fund, FOGAIN, which covers fraud, the impossibility of recovering securities deposited in an investment services company up to a maximum of EUR 100 000, and to which all investment services companies, including financial advisory bodies, will now have to adhere. Well, during the appearance phase that was reserved for this processing, the main representative associations of these entities transferred to us their concerns related to the fact that financial advisory entities, which do not manage money or customer values, but only advise assets, have an obligation to adhere to the fund that they will never use. People such as Mr Ibáñez Ferriol, of the Spanish Association of Financial Advisory Companies, but also others such as Mr Pich Rosell, of the General Council of Colleges of Economists of Spain, or Mrs González de Frutos, of the Spanish Union of Insurance and Reinsurance Entities, in addition to the Secretary of State himself, Mr García Andrés, were able to contribute their views and were fully heard by the Commission on this and other issues covered by the regulations. In any case, it should be recalled that FOGAIN also covers cases where an unauthorized entity for the management of funds and assets acts fraudulently or unlawfully, i.e. the measure has its technical and legal motivation in our view. Another thing is that the minimum contribution required is what it really is, and here we understand that it can result in the unfeasibility of some companies, as I think Mr Paniagua also said. That is why we assume that this extreme must be corrected, so that there is proportionality according to the type of service that is provided, the size of the company, etc. In general, we believe that the present text substantially improves the law of 2015 to the extent that it corrects some elements that have been proved useless or obsolete since then. For example, first, skip the legislative technique of the Securities Market Act by transforming it into a real framework law while containing only those basic principles and main elements of securities market regulation. Secondly, the bill simplifies some procedures and eliminates redundant administrative burdens to facilitate attracting investors. We also believe that it improves the governance of the CNMV, which will surely make it more independent. Finally, the adaptation of our system to the advances in digitisation will ensure legal certainty and recognize the usefulness of new technologies in development. On the other hand, we trust that the economic effects of this new rule will lead to greater systemic efficiency. For example, the standard introduces a prudential regime of its own for investment services undertakings which will result in a more effective standard when establishing solvency guarantees for investment services undertakings. The urgent reform of the MiFID 2 Directive has also been incorporated, which will allow for a better flow of business finance through the capital market and thus a greater contribution by the markets to the development of the economy. Similarly, the definition of SME is extended to include companies with debt issues for a period of less than 50 million, when issuers of a minimum amount of EUR 200 million have been envisaged so far. This will increase the possibilities for listing on these markets and improve the company's financing. We are also confident that improvements in the competitiveness of the Spanish securities market will contribute to a better balance in the sources of business finance and, therefore, to a lower dependence on the credit system, which has been the characteristic that has prevailed in the Spanish economic system to date. Finally, specific regulations on the so-called SPACs are introduced with the aim of clarifying their functioning and ensuring that investors can allow the repayment of the capital they invest. The result of all this is a text that will particularly benefit retail or non-professional investors, insofar as they will have sufficient and quality information when they invest and as long as professional intermediaries take care of their interests when they provide these services. Our parliamentary group has always been concerned about the protection of clients of financial services and savers, and it is no less so, since in our country over the last few decades there have been numerous cases of financial scams that have led individuals with a small amount of investment to lose much of their savings, if not all, precisely because of the lack of information and financial knowledge. In this sense, digitisation has made significant progress in bringing investment tools closer to potential investors, which also benefits companies seeking non-bank financing, but at the same time has increased the risk of fraud. An example where we can see it is in the marketing of active cryptos, which has fallen into a young audience and easily captured due to the lack of job opportunities and the high profitability promised in advertising campaigns of this type of products. All this, ladies and gentlemen, tells us that we are on the right track, on the road to orderly regulation of the fair sharing of risks and gains, that is, we put the mechanisms of the market at the service of the people and not under their command. I also take this last minute to thank the Commission for its work, in particular the rapporteurs of this law, of course the President of the Commission, Mr Celso Delgado, it is always a pleasure to be able to go to the committees under your presidency, of course also the lawyer and, moreover, I wish you happy holidays and much luck for next year. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u319	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to say good afternoon to the Minister, because I believe that in the debate on a bill of this importance it should be. We have come to debate, and probably to approve, because you have seen the good climate in the Committee on the Economy always, and with this rule there has been in a very special way, the draft of a new law on the securities market, which would be the third in the history of Spain. The first, of 1988, has provided very good services to society, to the nation, and has arrived here in some way because, as you know, it is part of the current one, which is a consolidated text, the Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015. The text we are proposing now, as Mr Capdevila has reminded us, involves the transposition into Spanish law of five directives from the European Parliament and the Council. The last, in fact, was approved on the 14th, so we have not only been up to date with the delays that we were having, but we have moved forward, I do not know if from the right, to the European Union. In addition, as stated in the explanatory statement of the project which is now being put to the vote, a number of subjects have been identified that required updating and modernisation, with the aim of improving the competitiveness and attractiveness of Spanish securities markets, enhancing their entrepreneurial financing capacity, always with the maximum guarantees for the investor. This means, moreover, that the law will no longer be the Securities Market Act to receive a new name; it will be the law of the securities market and investment services. I don't intend to bore you with the content. The law is very prolific, has ten titles, 367 articles and 27 provisions of various kinds. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fundamental mission of a financial system, because this law, together with the Law on the Ordination, Supervision and Solvency of Credit Entities, 10/2014, and the Law on the Ordination, Supervision and Solvency of Insurance Entities, 20/2015, constitute the basic regulation of a financial system. The fundamental mission of a financial system is to capture the surplus of so-called surplus economic units, usually mature families, to apply it in favour of deficit economic units, usually young families and businesses, and for a few decades the Administration. This process of fund-raising and implementation requires intensive work by financial intermediaries and has two purposes. One, on the one hand, is to adapt the risk and term preferences of the savers to the investor's financing demands, because they are often opposed preferences, which is known as the process of financial transformation and, on the other hand, to increase as much as possible the flow of savings aimed at productive investment, which is called the process of financial maximization; and all this to achieve the greatest and most efficient allocation of resources available to an economy, in this case the Spanish one. In this sense, the draft law that we are debating today, together with the regulation that I spoke about before the banking and insurance institutions, constitutes a very good regulation of the Spanish financial system, I dare say. However, I wanted to warn you of the risks that exist so that good regulation does not achieve the desired objectives, which are two. First, legal uncertainty and then the application of savings to consumptive expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal uncertainty in Spain does not derive so much from the actions of our courts - they work reasonably well - not even from the excessive regulation and intervention of many authorities that interfere in business decision-making processes. Nor do I talk to them about the legal uncertainty of changing regulations. I speak to you of the lack of respect for the law, with capital letters, and of the legal uncertainty generated by a State in a situation of constant questioning, as if a teenager in vocational crisis were being treated, although, after the forty, it is difficult to understand this type of behavior. The application of savings to the financing merely of the expenditure that others cannot meet today does not lay the basis for any growth or - I am afraid - that of the recovery of the borrowed capital, at least in terms of the capacity of the purchasing power, i.e. discounted inflation. It makes no sense, gentlemen, for savers to give up current consumption if they are not assured - within what is insurable when we talk about the future - of a real increase in their future consumption. And it cannot ensure such a real increase if capital is not largely devoted to productive investment, i.e. if an efficient allocation of resources is not made. And public debt is not, much less, a productive investment, except in some very small cases. In the last five years the financing capacity of families - and, in part, of businesses - has been, in spite of everything, frankly high. The Spanish have saved almost 200,000 million euros, which have not been enough to finance the nearly 300,000 that public administrations have needed. That is why we have needed another 200,000 from the European Central Bank to meet that deficit of financing for public debt and to reduce our international financial position. This is a good law for regulating securities markets and investment services, which, together with the laws on the management, supervision and solvency of credit institutions and insurers, assure us a good financial system. However, ladies and gentlemen, you have to be careful, because high-end vehicles do not work well in the desert, they serve no purpose. Arrived here, I wish you happy holidays, at which we celebrate Christmas, the birth of the Redeemer, the only one who can redeem us. I wish you the best in the year 2023 in all respects, except the election, and thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Manso. For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u321	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The coalition government that President Pedro Sánchez has been acquitting a reformist economic policy, which has been accredited since the beginning of his term. This policy has not been delayed even in the context of extraordinary adversities that it has had to face, from the coronavirus pandemic to the effects and consequences of the war in Ukraine. With the same vocation, it has been used in the transposition of European directives, to eliminate the huge package that it found pending transposition upon arrival. The pandemic crisis at international, European and national levels has triggered a supply crisis, with the breakdown of production chains, a shortage of microchips and, since last year, the rise in energy prices, among other factors. For this reason, the Government has been fully engaged in the implementation of a legislative package, which this Congress has adopted, to improve in macroeconomic and microeconomic terms this supply crisis. Thus, reforms concerning the business environment have included the Emerging Business Ecosystem Development Act, as known as the Startups Act, the Business Creation and Growth Act, the Reform of the Competition Act and the entire package of financial support measures since 2020. And now we close the circle with this bill, which allows us to improve the financing and capitalization mechanisms of companies. The draft Securities Markets and Investment Services Act is a good example of these reformist determinations and the transposition of European legislation. This bill not only seeks to transpose many European directives, but also incorporates European regulations, in order to clarify in a single regulation the legal framework, with the consequent improvement of legal certainty in a market so sensitive to uncertainty and insecurity and also transparency, so necessary when we talk about financial values. At the same time, its approval will resolve the competitiveness gradients of Spanish investment services companies vis-à-vis European competitors. The objectives we propose with this law are to promote financing for businesses and to increase the protection of investors, especially retailers. The first objective is to strengthen the role of securities markets in financing the economy, ensuring that investment services contribute to the capitalisation of Spanish companies by incorporating new financing instruments, especially for SMEs. The draft regulation also provides for the reform of the Capital Companies Act to ensure the protection of investors in listed companies for the purpose of acquisition - the SPACs in their acronyms in English -, also enabling the conditions under which the repayment of the capital invested by shareholders in those companies is carried out. To implement the second of the objectives, regulation is modernised and progress is being made in the incorporation of European legislation in order to meet the challenges arising from the digitalisation process. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the forecasts of the European legislation on active cryptos will apply, so that the CNMV has the powers on investor protection and financial stability in this area. Any financial instrument that is an active crypt represented by distributed registration technology is defined in the scope of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, Directive 2019/2034 on the Prudential Regime of Investment Services Enterprises is also transposed. The rule establishes a prudential supervisory regime for these companies, adapting them to the particularities of their business model, based on the principle of proportionality. The CNMV shall establish an applicable regime based on the size, nature, scale and complexity of the activities of investment services undertakings, and shall also make this regime more flexible for small enterprises without systemic risk, while maintaining investor protection. In short, the draft Law on Securities Markets and Investment Services seeks to improve the financing and capitalization of Spanish companies; it provides for administrative simplification, eliminating redundant procedures to facilitate the attraction of investments; it allows for the establishment of conditions of competitiveness for Spanish companies in this sector, and it comprises in a single text the rules relating to a market that must necessarily be based on legal certainty and transparency. There is no doubt that wholesalers and retailers will welcome this rule. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain, where the financing of companies is focused on such a banked financial market, a diversification of sources of financing was needed, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, which in the past crises of 2008 and 2012 already knew the drastic restrictions of financing, and it is not appropriate that this situation should be repeated in the future. Finally, this project has a high level of agreement. I would like to thank the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation for its work with the parliamentary groups, especially the Ministry of State for Economy and Enterprise Support. It is also necessary to mention the excellent performance of the lawyer and the services of this House for the good end of our work and that of the Commission, and also, of course, that of the President of the Commission, Mr Delgado. From my parliamentary group we reaffirm the gratitude for the talent and willingness to dialogue of all the parliamentary groups and rapporteurs who have participated in the discussion of this law. Thanks to all of them for this broad agreement with which we will adopt this law, practically by consensus. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to serve the general interest, the common good of the citizens, with a constructive debate, away from the noise, which too often prevents us from understanding. Just as we reject dishonest behaviors, when the dialogue is fruitful it is necessary to record in the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u323	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, in order to alleviate the effects of the current energy and economic crisis that are affecting companies in the ceramic sector of the Castellón regions caused by the war in Ukraine. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As we said the other day, when we made the inquiry to the minister, we pointed out the serious consequences that the energy crisis is causing in the ceramic companies, the fries, the enamels, the auxiliary machinery and the colorificios. It is a cluster that concentrates basically in the regions of Castelló, where one in two industrial jobs and one in three of the total jobs are involved, to really realize what is the impact that these kinds of industries are suffering. Thus, in Castellón almost all families have someone who in one way or another is linked to these industries, and the consequences we have already seen throughout this year. In total, there have been 77 ERTE, which have affected almost 9000 workers, and 5 ERE, which have meant that almost 500 workers lose their jobs, which almost means that half of all employment concentrated in these industries has been affected in one way or another. We are talking about a sector that extends to significant municipalities, such as Onda, Vila Real, Almazora, Alcora or Castelló, in short, many peoples, who are suffering the consequences of this crisis in an industry that consumes 8% of the total industrial gas of the whole Spanish State and accounts for 14% of Valencian GDP. We told the minister the other day: We need the Government's involvement in order to alleviate the adverse effects that this crisis is causing; working together, as already being done there by the Technology Institute of Ceramics, companies and the Valencian Government; new energy alternatives, and funding lines to attend this study on new energy alternatives to replace gas by electricity, for example, so as not to have to depend in this way so badly on the fluctuations that the price of this raw material may have. In addition to this scenario, some countries that are direct competitors of Valencian companies receive support from their states, making them much more competitive in terms of prices and supply capacity to their customers. For example, Italy's ceramic industries are one billion more competitive, so they are gradually gaining market shares that were ours until then, and this has meant that Castellón's ceramic industry and everything that revolves around it has reduced its production by more than 14% this year, putting thousands of jobs at risk. We insist: In contrast to the aid that this sector receives in other countries, in the case of the industries of Castellón have been much more modest, for putting a friendly adjective. We are presenting this motion with measures that have been agreed with the sector and endorsed by the European Commission. We travelled to Brussels a couple of weeks ago and interviewed the State Aid Department for the competitiveness of companies, and in this regard we were assured that the restrictions on such aid are being made more flexible at a time when these companies are going through such a great crisis. These are therefore the points of the motion: that there should be a favourable tax credit; tax reductions, based on the increase in the gas factor, as is the case in other Member States; to articulate a RED or similar mechanism for workers to consume unemployment; more direct aid; that the State should participate in gas purchases in order to ensure supply and reduce prices, and to restore diplomatic relations, since, because of strategic decisions by the Spanish Government, this has been detrimental to many Valencian companies, which now have real barriers to being able to sell their products in those countries, in particular ceramic companies. Finally, I would like to thank all the amendments that have been tabled to us. We are looking at them with great affection and tomorrow I will give you an answer, although it is almost certain that some will be incorporated. And I use these seventeen seconds to dedicate, without distinction, a bon Nadal to all Members of this House. And, as some of us have done well, let us hope that the Kings will bring us for next year a more friendly political climate, peace in the world and in this House, and - why not?, to ask that it not stay!- to see if the Kings bring us the renewal of the judicial bodies in a fucking time. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u325	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u326	Thank you, President. Mr Baldoví, of course, my group understands the defence of the blue-collar sector on its part, as it cannot be otherwise, because the fact is that its geographical concentration is in the province of Castellón, and, as has already been said in the debate on the motion, approximately 95 % of national production originates in it. Moreover, it is a sector in which the gas bill has become its worst nightmare, although it is not the only one found in this thesis, so that the problem of blueberry is the problem of all cogenerations, and I would say that it is also of the intensive gas industry; a cogeneration of which, in fact, the blueberry sector has been a pioneer, although it is also present in the ceramic industries, in general, as well as in the chemical, paper or food industries. My group agrees with what it proposes for the blue industry, but we have tabled three more generalist amendments, which also cover the blue sector, as they are basically cogenerations. Indeed, the problem of these industries, as you say, is that the price of the megawatt hour has gone from 15 or 20 euros to 200 euros, which has an impact on the cost structure. There is no doubt that action must be taken in this context that we are living in, but it is no less true that the cogenerations have been warning of this problem, which has now been further aggravated by the rise in prices. And it is that so far it has not been sufficiently addressed to give an effective solution to this technology, of which the tile is one of its maximum expressions. With regard to palliative measures, welcome, Mr Baldoví, such as the one on activation of the REDD mechanism with regard to employment regulation dossiers, purchases of gas from origin or recovery of relations with countries that are strengthening their barriers to the import of ceramic products, although we are also not going to deny that the Government has taken measures, although it is true that some have not been sufficient, especially for energy-intensive industries. In fact, 40% of cogeneration plants are stopped and 51% have significant fall in production. Therefore, the production of cogeneration has been decreasing, while gas prices have quadrupled, and the fact is that the regulatory formulas applied so far, even with the incorporation of the gas filling mechanism since October, fail to cover the costs of these plants so that they can compete on an equal footing on the market. In addition, cogenerations continue to await the publication of remunerations for the second half of 2022 and for the first half of 2023. And with regard to the former, the salaries of the first half of the year, the fact is that they have meant a reduction of around 30%, when, as we have said, the price of gas has almost doubled over that period. Therefore, these are wages that do not take into account the increase that the cost of gas has been experiencing. And the fact that they do not know in advance the remuneration they will receive means that they do not know what decisions to make, such as, for example, with regard to joining that top of the mechanism, or with regard to investment, not to say that it is very difficult to budget and plan activities with some uncertainty. Therefore, my group has always advocated the restoration of the conditions of cogeneration and the need for proper regulation of the remuneration of the operation for cogeneration plants, which has a remunerative framework of those regulated in order to ensure that fuel costs are covered through the remuneration of the operation in order to compete in terms equivalent to other technologies. Therefore, on the one hand, we propose that the measures provided for in the motion with regard to tax credit and direct aid be applied to the intensive gas industries on the basis of their energy consumption, particularly to cogenerations, which include the blue-collar sector, with some 28 plants, and, on the other hand, that the Government be urged to review in a definitive manner the remuneration for the operation, which is insufficient or inadequate, as a result of the application of the Henry Hub index or price or the desirability of adjusting the reference value of the free allocation of CO2 to its real values, since, in view of the volatility in prices, they have no legal certainty, which has an impact on production and economic activity. It is therefore necessary to give certainty to these industries and also to help them with corrective measures in the light of the current situation. We want to help this industry, also in energy efficiency and saving, and a regulatory framework is needed so that this technology can combine green reactivation and industrial recovery with technologies ready to use renewable gases and hydrogen, for industrial decarbonisation, which was not possible before, but is now possible. And it is that cogeneration remains the industry's great ally for decarbonisation, with renewable gas and hydrogen. That is why, Mr Baldoví, as you have rightly said, we urge you to look warmly at our amendments, even though we understand your specific position on some, which we also appreciate positively, as it cannot be otherwise. You mentioned that the European Commission - it is true - can make state aid more flexible, as it certainly did with Germany. I therefore believe that this is the way forward if we want this industry not to be displaced and competitive, at least in front of its European counterparts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u327	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u328	Mr. Baldoví, thank you for your good wishes for Christmas and for the Magi bringing us many things. I join your request and, apart from the government that you support and the opposition stop sharing and playing with the judges, to see if they bring us the autonomous funding, which you so much asked for, for next year to all the Valencians. Without a doubt, a fair financing for the Valencians would be a good gift from Reyes. It is now up to me to speak as a Valencian and to say that, as the proposing group has explained, the challenges facing the ceramic industry are very important, because it depends on raw materials from non-Community producers, it encounters problems with trade barriers, and also lifestyle changes or even the attraction of skilled labour has posed problems on countless occasions, to which must be added the consequences with regard to the increase in the price of gas from the import of raw materials due to the war in Ukraine. The ceramics sector is the third largest industry contributing to the trade balance, Spain being the first volume-based ceramics exporting country in the whole of the European Union. Much of this success lies in the innovation path that the sector has shown. Since the 1980s, with the introduction of gas and thanks to innovation, they have been able to greatly reduce cooking cycles, and have now become the usual method of the tile and ceramic flooring industry. This, together with the use of cogeneration and the low level of water consumption by Spanish industry in relation to European levels, has enabled our ceramic companies to achieve a high level of competitiveness. But, as I said, the relevant exposure of the Spanish tile sector to the price of gas, as well as the need to import certain raw materials from Ukraine, as is the case with clays, has caused an important erosion of the profitability of the sector. The blue field is one of the main economic engines of the Valencian Community, and Castellón is the region where its main concentration is located. And, together with the problems I have pointed out before, it must be considered that the Government, in one of its real aid decrees, added an incomprehensible treatment to cogeneration, in general, through its non-inclusion of gas in the Iberian mechanism. We denounced it and finally happened after the summer, after most of the cogeneration facilities had to stop or reduce their production. As was done, for example, with the parts of renewable energy, green hydrogen and storage, we propose in one of the points of our amendments a PERTE for cogeneration, so that they can renew equipment and start up with a more efficient operation. Therefore, this has been the point of our amendments: to improve the motion, to alleviate the inadequacy of that of your group and to adapt it to what the sector really needs, which are more and better aid and a price of natural gas and energy, in general, significantly lower. These measures have been raised over and over again by my parliamentary group, although over and over again the Government, like Compromís, has not supported them, because I remind you that we also do not have their help when we put forward our non-legislative proposal for the drive of the cogeneration industry in 2020, before the price crisis. Our amendments are designed to boost the central purchasing of gas within the European Union, to approve a general study on the extension of the useful life of Spanish nuclear power plants and their replenishment through modular reactors, to approve a Parte para la cogeneration and a plan of shock and fiscal support, because without a serious policy, without a backing of nuclear energy, without a determined boost in investment and without tax cuts to the sector, it will be impossible for it to move forward. In short, you ask for conditional support. They prefer the motion to be incomplete rather than perhaps coming from my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u329	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u330	I tell you, if you're studying the amendments so fondly, here's ours. And I wish you all the best, too, Mr. Baldoví. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u331	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u332	Thank you, President. I live in Bechi, in the triangle of Castellón's ceramics, and I am here because I have been democratically elected in my province and I have more legitimacy than any members of judicial bodies with an expired mandate, clinging to their armchairs thanks to the maneuvers of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] United We can register a few weeks ago questions to the Ministry of Industry regarding aid to the tile sector, to the ceramics of Castellón, an industrial intensive gas sector today in crisis because of the high prices of gas. This sector has a huge weight - it has already been said - for the Castelló economy, it accounts for almost a third of the province's employment, it accounts for 22% of the GDP of the province of Castelló. Ukraine's war, geopolitical and trade changes have triggered gas prices, and this significantly reduces the profit margin in this sector. The industry today is producing at a minimum and activating ERTE to save costs, which means for workers. It must be said that the ERTE mechanism, which has sustained in the pandemic - and also now, in this crisis - tens of thousands of jobs, is an important mechanism, but it is not the solution to this situation. If these companies do not guarantee supply, they will lose market to other competing countries. The situation requires coordinated responses which, in many cases, are already being articulated and in which further and further progress is needed. In the short term - the sector with which we have spoken - direct aid to compensate for energy costs is urgently needed. The progressive government of Botànic, of which we are part, has recently approved 60 million in direct aid to this industry in the budgets, and the coalition government has already announced a new package of measures, including direct aid, in the coming days. The 29th will be announced. And in the medium and long term - this is very important to us - we need structural measures, energy transitions to energy sources that replace natural gas and reduce energy dependence. This is fundamental. The Government of Botànic works in this direction, mainly through the Valencian Green Hydrogen Strategy and supporting the technological institutes of energy and industry with 500,000 euros in these budgets. The coalition government is also working on this productive transformation agenda and, to this end, the PERTE for decarbonisation, which will mobilise almost EUR 3 billion in grants and loans, is essential. During the pandemic, this government protected businesses and jobs through ERTE, ICO endorsement lines and direct aid. Effective measures are now being taken to contain inflation and protect families and businesses. This coalition government has been working at national and European level for over a year and a half with measures such as reducing VAT on electricity and gas from 21% to 5%; incorporating the Iberian mechanism into cogeneration plants; extending the flexibility of natural gas supply contracts until December 2023; direct aid to the intensive gas industries of more than EUR 28 million which, in Valencia, have benefited more than 110 companies, and promoting measures such as the gas cap. These days, as has been said, more measures will be announced. All this has been achieved by voting against the right-wing, without proposals, who tried not to get us the European funds, who only work to the ridiculous to sink the government, boycotting here and in Europe the measures that we are pushing. The right, in the previous financial crisis, also dropped the companies of Castellón's ceramics and dropped the workers; it only saved the banks. These economic and industrial policy decisions that we are talking about today - setting prices, guiding investment, protecting employment - now seem to be common sense, but let us remember that they have not been adopted in previous situations of equal gravity with the governments of the People's Party. It is proving itself, and we must continue to demonstrate in the coming days and months, that we are capable and that we are ruling in another way, in this case, ensuring that the blues sector has in mind and has a future. We, from Unidad Podemos, will support the motion put forward. We have tabled some amendment which we think responds better to the situation being experienced and to the measures that have been articulated up to now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u333	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Clavell López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u334	Thank you, President. Mr Baldoví already comes with the suit as a candidate for the Presidency of the Generalitat. But, Mr. Baldoví, you're late and bad. Where were you and Compromis when amendments were tabled from the People's Party to the general budgets of 2021 and 2022, both prior to the beginning of the war in Ukraine, and those of 2023, here and there in Valencia, to alleviate this dramatic situation? I answer because you will not: voting against. In addition, over the past year, the People's Parliamentary Group has put forward four initiatives in this regard, four of which, in the debates - all but one, which has not yet been debated - have obtained the vote against the Government and the parties that support it; all of which sought to remedy the errors of the Government. In the meantime, where were you, Mr. Baldoví? [[A Member: That's what I'm saying!]] Given the delicate situation of a fundamental economic sector for the province of Castellón and the neglect of the central, autonomic and provincial governments, all of them presided over by the Socialist Party and with the internal or external support of Compromís, the People's Party, as a guarantor of the interests of the Castilians, had to take the initiative from the opposition. [[Applauds]] It was our provincial president, Marta Barrachina, who presented in September a manifesto in defense of ceramics open to all political forces and signed by our mayors and municipal spokespersons. A few days later, the presidents Feijóo and Mazón met in Castellón with the Spanish Association of Ceramic Manufacturers, with the National Association of Manufacturers of Fritas, Enamels and Ceramic Colors, with the association and with the president of the Confederation of Companies of the Valencian Community, where effective measures were put on the table to solve this problem. It was not until the end of November that Pedro Sánchez, always towing with the People's Party, decided to meet with ASCER taking advantage of his passage through Castellón. Mr Baldoví, I am very concerned about the 11,000 ceramic workers in my province, who are currently in an ERTE, 11,000 families who are going to spend a Christmas full of uncertainty and uncertainty. And in the meantime, where are you, Mr. Baldoví? [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: Here, I'm here]] You continue to support a government whose vice president and minister of economics believes that the ceramic sector is concentrated in Alicante and not in Castellón. Look, Mr. Baldoví, whenever the left has ruled in this country Castellón has been your victim. Whenever the Socialist Party has been in Moncloa or in the Palau de la Generalitat it has flogged Castellón. My province has always been singled out and mistreated by the left, but now, especially, by Pedro Sánchez. But I tell you one thing, Mr Baldoví, the Socialist Party and Pedro Sánchez are not the only ones responsible for this abuse. If we currently have the worst government in the history of democracy in this country, it is, among other things, by its vote. You decided with your vote that Pedro Sánchez was in the Moncloa and that he would continue in it. You approve year after year the harmful general budgets of the state, which do not include aid for ceramics and which today claims here, yes, in its new candidate suit. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] By voting, it prevents the aid that the ceramic sector in other European countries, such as Italy or Germany, already receive. With his vote and his servility to the government of Pedro Sánchez he has managed that another sector as important in my land, such as citrus, cannot compete on equal terms to combat cotton. His party is no longer an opposition since 2018. Compromís supports this toxic government for Castellón. I will tell you more, Mr Baldoví: your party has been a government in the Valencian Community since 2015, Compromís presides over that chaotic Consell; that is, for eight years now Compromís has been leading Valencian politics, even though you yourselves are now ashamed of your decisions. What has the Valencian Government done, of which Compromís is a member, in defense of Castilian ceramics? I'm going to answer: nothing. I'm done with this. Mr Baldoví, you, who come now as the savior and liberator of all evils, are co-responsible and complicit in all that is happening in the ceramic sector of Castellón.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u335	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u336	You will become, together with Pedro Sánchez and Ximo Puig, the Grinch of these 11,000 families, who will spend Christmas holidays with utmost concern. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u337	Your Honor, you must finish now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u338	The corporal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u339	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u340	Mr. Baldoví, my province, Castellón, will never trust a person who...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u341	Your Honor, your time is over a lot. Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u342	... In the face of the worst political scandal in recent years he decided to support the coverts and to dance with Monica Oltra. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u343	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ros Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u344	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's commitment to protect workers and companies in the Castellón ceramics sector is firm. This government and the Socialist Party comply, comply with Spain, comply with the most needy and comply with the province of Castelló. We demonstrated it with facts, not empty words. Facts like last November 23rd, when President Pedro Sánchez and President Ximo Puig met in Castelló with representatives of the sector and announced new measures to guarantee the future of the ceramic cluster. This Saturday, in Valencia, the president of the government anticipated that this will come true next day 29. [[Applauds]] Done as done this Monday in Brussels by the third vice-president of the gas cap. Facts, because that is how we govern the socialists and the socialists. That the ceramic cluster needs urgent help? Yes, and the Socialists will always support that claim. We are working on it by the Valencian Members, and especially those of Castellón, because it is a just claim, and the Socialist Party believes so. Ladies and gentlemen, last week in this House the Minister of Industry detailed the high level of contact with all associations in the sector. There are several ministries that are working intensively to provide solutions that alleviate this serious situation: the first, second and third vice presidents, the foreign minister and the president himself. There has never been as much dialogue with the sector as with the current Government. Ladies and gentlemen, Castellón's ceramics is a sector with immense potential in design and innovation, with extraordinary competitiveness and with great export capacity; it is a product that represents the brand Spain; it is a very important sector for the generation of employment and economic activity in my province. Many families depend on it: designers, laboratories, ceramic technicians, furnaces, prensists, commercials, enamellers, graders, cartellers, truckers... an entire great chain that ensures that these companies have an international success, and that is key to the present and future of Castelló. That is why this government and the Socialist Party are committed to the sector, before and now. During the pandemic, measures were deployed to enable companies to continue to export and maintain their activities. Here are the EREs, the ICOs and the direct aid to the ceramics sector of up to 400,000 euros per company, measures to which, by the way, the right and the right voted no. With the rise in energy prices as a result of the Putin war, regulatory, fiscal and economic measures were applied against which the People's Party also voted. Is there more to be done? Yeah, and that's what the government's gonna do. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment to this motion in order to improve and help make these measures more effective, such as including the DEcarbonisation PART. Mr. Baldoví, I am convinced that together and together we add more and better. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you always talk about who else has to shut up. When you ruled - I say it loud and clear - you never implemented specific aid measures for the ceramics sector. Moreover, during the real estate crisis the tile had to reinvent and innovate, and it did so alone. He ruled the People's Party and you didn't take any action. Moreover: instead of ERTE there were EREs and dismissals with the labor reform of Mariano Rajoy, infamous for the workers of the sector. [[Applauds]] Total abandonment and absolute contempt. Now, when measures are brought into this House, they have voted against them. You behave like the hortelano dog, neither eat nor let eat; moreover, you are expert in advice I sell that I do not have. The corporal. Dialogue, dialogue and understanding; aid, measures and facts. This government not only wants to protect the sector, but wants to promote and modernise it, and there will be the socialists, des de la Comunitat Valenciana i mutt particularement des de Castelló. The next 29, facts, measures and realities. Good Nadal, gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u345	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u346	Good afternoon, President, good afternoon to everyone. Recently we met with representatives of Workers' Commissions and UGT of Castelló from the sector of the taulell, tile, and these brought us their reasoned concerns. We're committed to defending your interests, as it can't be otherwise, and here we are. We are in a crisis in the ceramics sector, an aggravated crisis with the invasion of Ukraine, with the war in Europe and with the disastrous consequences of any war, which aggravate everything. The war never brought anything good. The cease-fire should be immediate and demanded by the entire world working class, and we make a call for that to be so. Russians, Ukrainians and all the workers of the world, if we agree, there is an immediate ceasefire now. But war is not the only triggering factor in the crisis in this sector. We are also paying for the disastrous economic policies carried out for decades by the various governments in industrial policy and, in particular, in the ceramics sector. It is unjustifiable - I will explain - that even today, at the gates of 2023, the Mediterranean corridor, an indispensable corridor of goods with international width, does not exist. It is incomprehensible and inexplicable from an economic logic that the corridor that should unite Africa with Europe, passing through all the ports of the Mediterranean, is not a reality. It is a shame and unacceptable, because it is limiting the ability to earn a living not only to the people of Valencia, Catalonia, but also Murcia, Andalusia and, in general, all the peoples of the State. After all, Catalonia is 200 kilometres from the border, but there are countries or peoples of the State that are far further away and, on the other hand, incomprehensiblely, do not have these mobility services. Without efficient and rational mobility there is no future, nor is there any future without an energy policy that allows the re-industrialisation and maintenance of industry in this area and everywhere. On 6 September, an alliance of industrial associations formed by Fertilizers Europe, Verre Alliance Europe, Euromines, the European Association of Cement, Cal, Clay, Ferro-alloying Producers, Steel, Non-Ferrous Metals, Ceramics Industry, the European Chemical Industry Council and the Confederation of European Paper Industries sent a letter to the President of the European Union warning that the vast majority of energy-intensive industries currently had no profitability to continue production in Europe or prospects for future investment and development. They said all these associations: the effects of these closures are beginning to have a severe impact on our value chains, endangering the European industrial base and the availability of essential products. In other words, what they come to denounce is that perhaps the time has come to change the outdated and bureaucratic rules on state aid for companies in the European Union. In fact, we're not talking about anything revolutionary. We are talking and demanding that we do what has been done for a long time, for example in the United States, which is precisely the mecca of capitalism. Ojo!, United States, which gives generous aid to American industry, to industrial protectionism. However, we go further and make it clear that aid is essential, but with conditions. In short, we are calling for aid which is, firstly, linked to the maintenance of jobs; secondly, to the maintenance of the wages updated by the CPI; and thirdly, aid which is linked to the legal impossibility of future relocations, whether in China or also in Italy, where they are also giving aid to the companies in this sector which are very important and which endanger these relocations, which would have to be completely illegitimate in a European Union that really was a Union. For all this, and much more, and knowing that the present and future of thousands of jobs in the country valencià is at stake, the way to earn a living for thousands of families in the Castelló area... [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Good Nadal to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Asarta Cuevas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u348	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The ceramic industry is a leading sector that has suffered enormously in these years and it is necessary to support its recovery, but it is enough of unfulfilled promises. Before entering the electoral campaign, it would be useful to explain why the companies in the ceramic sector and so many Spanish companies have been left out of funds designed precisely for that purpose, for recovery. A month ago, the ASCER employer met with President Sánchez and sent him the urgency to act on the part of the government, and they have received no reply to date, only promises. Nor do the various ministries to which he has come respond. I'm addressing the government and telling them that before they promise, they'll do it. Basically, what is happening is the loss of competitiveness in the prices of the product in the ceramic sector compared to our main competitor in the European Union, which is not other than Italian, which helps the sector with a 40% bonus on the price of gas, leaving us in total defencelessness and inferior in terms of competition. [[Applauds]] It must be borne in mind that the lost position on the market is very difficult to recover and that there is competition in the European Union beyond Italy. They are countries that, in the ceramic sector, do not have such a high dependence on gas, as is the case with Poland, whose companies rely mostly on coal, or neighbouring countries such as Turkey, which has its own gas and is not suffering from this price rise. In this respect, as a more obvious example, we have the case of the United States of America, which at the time, for the most part, imported Spanish ceramics, but which, due to the large increase in both material and freight costs and maritime transport, has been strengthened its own ceramic industry, which exploits its own gas and produces its own land. Even, there have already been cases of renowned Italian and Portuguese factories that have relocated their production to Tennessee, where their government receives with open arms and all kinds of aid and facilities for their new production plants there. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I must announce to you that representatives of the Tennessee government were last week in Castellón visiting ceramic industries, specifically in Villarreal as well, to offer you the means for this relocation. We are talking about relocation to the United States, not a third world country. What this motion does not say is that in Spain a Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan has been approved which, between aid and loans, can reach up to EUR 140 billion, which are barely reaching companies and which is excluding SMEs. We had and have the opportunity to support this sector, we have the instruments, and it was a great opportunity, but you and the majority that supports the government by paralysing the processing of a rule that regulates these funds are being necessary collaborators for this exclusion. The ceramic sector of the province of Castellón represents the fourth largest producer of ceramic tiles in the world and the first in Europe, being also the second largest exporter on the planet, only surpassed by China. Thus, this sector places the province of Castellón in the world and, therefore, Spain, creating wealth and many jobs; as many as 17,180 direct jobs and about 50,000 indirect jobs. [[Applauds]] In Castellón, the rise in the price of gas and the war in Ukraine has put more than 11,000 workers into ERTE, not 9000, 64% of the total workforce, mainly in those low-cost companies that did not have the limited profit margin that they had, entering into losses and presenting ERTE and, worse, in some cases ERE, which means the destruction of employment. If the government acted like Italian, many ERTE could be recovered, which would be very beneficial for workers and businesses. From June 2021 to date, the impact of the gas per square metre produced has quadrupled. In the ceramic sector it already rains on wet, because to increase the price of gas it is added that the clays that came from Ukraine to manufacture the products have been gone for quite some time, having to resort to looking for others not so good and having to change the formulas of the mixtures to manufacture the products. Ladies and gentlemen, Castellón's ceramics is Spain's brand and it must be borne in mind that, in a country as deindustrialised as Spain, Castellón is one of the few provinces that has as its largest family income generator an industry such as ceramics, which exports more than two thirds of its production worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, one question: are we prepared to risk the livelihood and the future of an entire province? It's over, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u349	Yes, Your Honor, it has to be determined.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u350	The sector hit by this crisis needs extraordinary support for its recovery. They need the support they promised with European funds available, which they do not implement, from which they have excluded SMEs and now want to hide with new promises. They won't make us complicit in their mismanagement. Ladies and gentlemen, Merry Christmas and thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u351	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Baldoví, will your group accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u352	We're studying them.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u353	Thank you very much. - the EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU Parliamentary Group on the DIGITAL BREACH IN ATTENTION TO CITIZENSHIP BY PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION. [[File number 173/000187]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u354	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Euskal Herría Bildu Parliamentary Group concerning the digital divide in the public service's attention to citizens. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u355	Sweep on, good afternoon. This motion touches on a key aspect of the administration's relations with the citizenry, a crucial issue such as communication with the people to whom the administration owes itself. It refers to something as essential as guaranteeing the right of people to receive clear and accessible information, because this is a right of the people and it is a duty of the administrations to the citizenry. Moreover, it is crucial, because the consequences arising from the lack of clarity and difficulties in the processes of relations with the administrations become two very important problems, very important at all times but more in these times that we live in. The difficulty of relating to the Administration becomes the loss of confidence in the institutions and also leads to the violation of the rights of all persons by being unable to understand and access the information and services of the Administration. We already said last week that there is much talk about what is happening in the bank, with the elimination of face-to-face attention and the increase in online operations, but this is also happening in the Administration, and more and more. More and more, any kind of procedure must be done in a telematic way, including applications for aid and benefits such as minimum living income; aid for the poorest who, in many cases, are not processed by real impossibility by having to do so necessarily via the Internet. Although a computer can be accessed, what is also happening is that the procedures for accessing the subsidies, aid and services offered, and that they represent a lever of change to combat situations that may cause vulnerability, are neither clear nor accessible nor easy to request. It's not that we say it, it's that anyone who's tried to do a telematics procedure with the Public Administration knows the tortuous path of difficulty that opens up before him. Nor is it simply a matter of perceptions, because there are also studies that testify to it. One of them, the most recent I've found, is entitled 'Are the digital procedures clear?' of the company Prodigioso Volcano. The first conclusion of this report is that 83 % of the citizens leave some of the administration's digital procedures on average because I insist that 83 % of the population do not understand it. The second conclusion is that the main difficulty expressed by citizens in doing administrative procedures telematically is that they cannot resolve their doubts. They can't do it because they can't contact someone, because there's no one to contact; offices and closed doors, there's no one on the other side and there's not even a phone to call. In addition, there are no instructions, no detailed steps and the few indications are plagued with technicalities and terms that are incomprehensible to the vast majority of people. There are many problems detected. Of course, the technological capabilities of all people and all sectors must be advanced, but it is clear that the times between this digital development must be matched, to which we will inevitably have to add the population and the obligation that must be demanded of the Administration to facilitate communication with citizens. I think it is necessary to repeat that citizen care is a nuclear element and is a right of citizenship, so for people who do not have sufficient knowledge or the necessary technological equipment, the Administration has to establish channels that allow citizen care in an efficient way and, to do so, among other issues, face-to-face care should be guaranteed. Therefore, in this motion, we propose that access to information from the Administration be ensured to all citizens through adequate face-to-face attention; that the possibility of face-to-face processing and management be included, through non-telematic options, for all aids and applications to the Public Administration, including primarily requests for minimum vital income, which affect those who have less accessibility to online procedures; that the scope of Internet networks be boosted to all places where they find difficulties; and that the applications and Internet portals used by the Public Administration be changed to more intuitive and simplified platforms. And, with regard to banks, we ask that face-to-face attention be ensured in the branches of banks and boxes, extending schedules and without any payment for it. In short, these are the measures that we are putting in place to alleviate this problem, which is current and real as life itself and which affects not only the elderly - they are not confused, ladies and gentlemen - but a large majority of the population that is at large with this unintelligible tide that for many people comes to be, today, the public administration. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u356	Thank you so much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa intervenes, first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u357	Thank you, President. In our parliamentary group we have always defended the digitalisation of the Administration as a very important opportunity to ensure more efficient processes in public management and also closer to citizens through the digital media. If a citizen can have all his documents, procedures, requests and complaints in his hand, the Administration is more accessible and the line of communication between the citizen and the institutions is more direct. However, we are also aware of the huge digital divide that exists. In many reports, such as a recent Amazon Web Services report, it is said that only 22% of Spanish companies use technologies such as cloud or artificial intelligence, that only 9% of them use big data to improve organizational business decisions and that the situation is also very worrying in SMEs. As far as citizenship is concerned, another of the existing problems that the report also points out is that of digital skills. Only 57% of the adult population has basic digital skills and in recent years this figure has not improved. This is a symptom of the problems in our digital sector and it is really surprising that four out of ten Spaniards do not have basic digital skills. I think that we should work on it and that we should focus more on it; it is something that the motion proposes - through courses and so on - and that we share. Logically, it also speaks of the motion for the pending subject of the digitalization of the Administration, which is undoubtedly one of the aspects on which the Administration has to focus its efforts more. It is necessary to combine the promotion and development of digital public services with training for the acquisition of basic digital skills, because, in our opinion, the guarantee of invisibility should be maintained, but not as a basic priority, but as a transitional tool. We believe that our country is failing to take advantage of the opportunity offered by European funds, because the millions of euros that are being invested in digitisation are not having a real impact on the preparation of the private sector or on the public. We share with the proposer group the need to bet on more intuitive solutions than the current ones, which are in most cases absolutely outrageous and provoke, as the spokesman has said, the abandonment of the process on many occasions. But I also have to say that we do not share either the first or the last point of the motion - which we have amended - which states that it is necessary to maintain face-to-face attention anywhere unconditionally. In the case of the first point, we believe that this solution, as we have said, can only be transitory as the new digital relationship systems develop and as the efforts to train citizens are carried out. It cannot be an objective in itself to maintain headquarters, timetables and staff in all types of services, because it would not be efficient in allocating resources, especially in view of the fact that there are sectors of the Administration in which staff are lacking, such as, for example, aid and application processing services. Pretending that everything is present is a well-intentioned ideal, but we consider it unrealistic and inappropriate to the current state of sociological reality. However, in the transitional period, the availability of basic social services in person must be guaranteed and protected, while promoting and providing adequate and, of course, free training for the use of the digital administration. At the last point of the motion, we do not agree that it is necessary to oblige private companies, in this case financial institutions, to maintain physical headquarters. Digitization is a trend that already exists and that is unstoppable; it is not something that must necessarily be reversed. We bet that banks can decide on the organization of their citizen care services in the way they see fit and that face-to-face care is seen as a competitive advantage. I am sure that, if financial institutions have an appropriate business strategy, they will not close offices in places where people are asking for these services. In addition, there are other mechanisms and tools, such as cashback - yesterday a GNP was approved on this driven by my group - which can also help cash services provided in places where there may not be a bank office. In short, and finally, we believe that the dichotomy presented by the proposing group is not real.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u358	Finally, please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u359	Digitalisation must not be hampered by inclusion, and we have therefore tabled the amendments that I hope you will accept. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u360	Thank you very much. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u361	Dear President, dear colleagues, on this issue we think exactly the opposite of what the spokesman for Citizens has just said. We believe that technologies are not good or bad per se. A hammer can be good if used to nail nails and not so good if used to hit someone in the head, and this is what happens in general with technologies. Technologies have different effects. For example, the great technological advances made in the transit from the 19th to the 20th centuries improved the quality of life of the people, expanded the rights and got a fairer distribution of resources, so that the workers could produce much more with less work and the working day went down to eight hours, which we achieved in 1919. When Bertrand Russell came to Madrid to give a conference in the 1930s, he said that after a few decades, only three or four hours would be worked, because technological advances would make it possible to reduce the working day enormously. Did this happen? No, the opposite has happened: in the 21st century there are people, for example, in the hospitality sector, who work with infinite hours and in conditions of almost slavery. Bertrand Russell was wrong, and he was wrong not because he made a naive statement, but because there is a planned - and very well planned - strategy so that new technologies can be used to reduce and confiscate rights, to increase the concentration of wealth in few hands, and for a social regression and a worsening of the quality of life. Therefore, new technologies, as well as digitisation, have truly wonderful results. For example, it would have been amazing to me as a child if I had been told that I would have a device in which, with just a key pressed, I would have access to some sort of library in Alexandria infinite or almost infinite. It's wonderful what allows digitization, but it's also tremendous what it allows and it's tremendous what's going on. I am very grateful to Mrs Aizpurua, because this is a really important issue and we do not pay enough attention to it. [[pronounces words in euskera]] We all agree on the positive of digitisation, but, with a slightly pale attitude, we tend to consider it a good thing per se and not to realize all the negative elements. The negative - and I am sorry - is not exclusively the digital exclusion or digital divide of certain people, especially of the elderly; it is that this process is being used for a massive destruction of decent employment, for a huge limitation of the rights of consumers and users, and even of those managed and managed, and for a concentration of resources in few hands. We have seen it in the bank with the destruction of decent jobs massively so that a person does not have the right to personalized care by a skilled worker to help him in his efforts. You're going to do it yourself so that I don't want my workers; so that I can do it without them, you're going to do your work and, besides, I'm not going to pay you, as I paid the worker for doing the work he did, but I'm going to charge you. You're gonna work for me and I'm gonna charge you. That is the situation of the bank, with a massive closure of offices and the destruction of public attention. That is a matter which, unfortunately, is also happening in the public administration, as Mrs Aizpurua has rightly put her finger on the sore. It is happening and, unfortunately, the pandemic - often unintentionally, without realizing it - has been used to deprive citizens and those who are administered of a basic right: the right to face-to-face care, the right to personalized care by skilled workers in public service hours. Public service hours are an obligation of administrations and businesses. We've known him all our lives. We had the right to go on that public service schedule and were obliged to attend. This is a citizen's right, it's not a graceful concession. They can't tell us: No, you call a phone and, if you get right with all the keys, when it takes a quarter of an hour, they'll give you a reference number - which you can forget or lose - and maybe we'll give you an appointment so I don't know what. The previous appointment has to be the exception. The rule must be the right to personal care. We can't turn a right into a free concession. We can't go into the Middle Ages. We have to defend our rights and the people we administer have the right to face-to-face and personal attention from the administration. The pre-date and digital media have to be one more option or, simply, something that has to be given as an exception. The rule must be the right to face-to-face care and we cannot be confiscated. We cannot go back on rights as a result of new technologies. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u362	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Oria López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u363	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are debating a motion that focuses the debate on one of the great concerns of this government, which is to combat the digital divide. For lack of infrastructure, or for lack of adequate qualification, it affects in a special way certain sectors of the population most vulnerable, such as older people, people in rural or more remote environments or people with special difficulties. This is an opportune,necessary and relevant debate. We will agree with the different groups in the parliamentary arc on the need to incorporate technology as an element that facilitates people's lives and, to do so, we need innovative and digitized administrations, which implies a different way of interacting with them. However, it would be irresponsible not to recognize the existence of population groups that have added difficulties for this new form of relationship, for very different and different reasons, and that demand the presence in the care and the provision of public services. The pandemic has accelerated this transformation, has been a testing ground for the digitalization processes and has demonstrated more than ever this reality, which necessarily forces us to maintain a reasonable balance, without under any circumstances the launch of new digital public services leading to the disappearance or weakening of the services of face care, which are so necessary and demanded by certain sectors of the population. In December 2020, the Council of Ministers approved the Plan for Connectivity and Digital Infrastructures of Society, Economy and Territories and the 5G Technology Impulse Strategy, the objectives of which are to further expand high-speed broadband coverage to 100 per cent of the population and contribute to the reduction of digital divides, among others. The Digital Spain 2025 agenda, updated to 2026, is the road map for this transformation of the country, by guaranteeing digital connectivity and also guaranteeing the digital rights of citizens. It is designed as a tool to act in three dimensions: infrastructure and technology,economy and people; and incorporates two new cross-cutting axes into the strategy, digital skills and digital rights. Digital Competencies, through the National Plan of Digital Competencies, the aim of which is to ensure that all people can interact, buy, make transactions and communicate with public administrations, autonomously, adequately and securely; ultimately, to promote digital inclusion. Digital rights, with the adoption of the Digital Rights Charter, which, without being normative in nature, provides a framework for guaranteeing the rights of citizens in the new digital reality and which sets out as its main objective to promote and facilitate access to, use and training of, digital environments for all groups. Aware of this reality, the Government of Spain has put in place concrete plans and measures for certain sectors: the plan to strengthen face care - the Government has expressly approved a programme aimed at the attention of the offices of information and citizen care and registration of persons over 65 years of age, without the need for a prior appointment, through the implementation of plans to strengthen face care - to ensure telephone care through 060, which attends 24 hours a day directly; the production of videos and leaflets about the electronic administration, and also through SEPE, which throughout the territory, in eight autonomous communities and twenty-six provinces, is deploying a digital training programme to women included in the PROFEA programme and which aims to reach 180,000 women. The commitment of the Government of Spain to the invisibility of the provision of public services is undeniable, but we cannot forget the reality of the public services that this Government inherited as a result of the disastrous personnel policies in the years of the People's Party's government, with the cuts that this Government is reversing by approving the largest public employment offers: almost 144,000 public jobs called since Pedro Sánchez is president of the Government, more than twice as much as those approved by the People's Party in its seven years of government. [[applause]] It is therefore a Government committed to the digital transformation of our country, but aware of the difficulties involved in this transformation for large segments of the population that deserve preferential treatment. In short, it is a government that works for and for people, despite you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group and ladies and gentlemen of VOX. We have tabled a number of amendments...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u364	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u365	The corporal. ...that, sharing the feeling and the background of the motion, we believe that they improve it and that we hope that they will be answered. Merry Christmas to all the members of this House. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u366	Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u367	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am listening here to the Socialist Group's colleague and the United Nations Group's colleague Podemos, and I am not going out of my astonishment. They say they appreciate the debate. Have you read the motion? The fact that we are debating the content of this motion is not something to be proud of, because, if we are discussing this motion, it is that this deficiency is not covered; and, if that deficiency is not covered, it is because neither Podemos nor the PSOE, who govern, are covering it. Really, there are times when my head explodes. [[Rumors]] Yes, all the debate you want, but if you have the capacity to prevent these debates from taking place, because it governs, because it has the tools and because it can change things, please save yourself this debate! I'd be proud that we didn't have to discuss this, which is basic. What does this motion say? This motion refers to a basic principle of administrative law: access of citizens to public administrations. And why is it so important? Because what this legal principle seeks is to ensure a balance between David, the citizen, and Goliath, the great Administration. We all know that when a person claims his or her rights or defends himself or herself in an administrative procedure he or she is a journey full of deadlines and formal requirements; and, if they are not fulfilled, citizens lose rights. So, what are we talking about? We are talking - and I give you data - that more than 30% of the population has no access to these tools, for lack of knowledge or for lack of means. And if we're already going to our elders, it's over 50%. Do you know who they are in those social groups? I'm telling you: families who have little income, who are at risk of social exclusion, whose head of household has no studies or few studies, people over 65 years of age... In other words, the Administration moves further away from the population cores that most need it. It's a nonsense. It's a nonsense! This doesn't just happen in the administration. I think all of us here are tired of seeing queues in Social Security to ask for rights: access to training, access to help,... queues of young people, older people or'embarrassed at early hours to see if they can tell them what they have to do, how they have to do it, where they have to go. And many times they make those tails without any success. This also happens in banking entities that, instead of a transition to digitization, make an imposition of digitization: they close windows, charge for procedures, there are procedures that can only be done by the cashier... Banking entities have to ensure that their customers have access, but the government has to ensure that consumer law, again David, is guaranteed against another Goliath, this time banking entities. They have to legislate for this to happen. I think we all know here that older people, for example, take out their pension, pay taxes, pay rent, pay electricity, pay water and pay everything for window. We're leaving all these people behind. I'm telling you in terms of political slogan: we're leaving a lot of people behind. The digital divide is the driving force behind social exclusion in the 21st century and I repeat that we are talking about rights. Access is a legal good that must be protected and guaranteed that everyone can access and that our rights are not violated. I give you the example of a neighbor in Gran Canaria who is not given the minimum living income because they tell him that he has a property. And to this gentleman, in front of the microphones of the SER Chain, the soul is broken explaining that that property they say it has, the bank took it away years ago, but the bank has not registered its property. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that digitisation is the future and will help us greatly to ensure certain issues and bring the administration closer together. But with only one person or population elements that have no means or capacity to access, it is our obligation to guarantee options, to ensure accessibility, to guarantee rights. Therefore, digitisation does, as an option, but not as an imposition. Stop making amends...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u368	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u369	I'm on my way. Stop amending a motion of logic, of common sense, and get to work so that this does not have to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u370	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u371	Thank you, President. Indeed, the digital age has brought many advantages that have facilitated our daily lives, but has also brought negative consequences. It is true that, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the digital divide, as they say, refers to the gap or division between individuals, households, economic and geographical areas at different socio-economic levels in relation to both their opportunities for access to information and communication technologies and the use of the Internet for a wide range of activities. We are therefore talking about three digital divides, which have also evolved according to technologies, which have been incorporated into society: the one that distinguishes between people connected to technological devices and those who are not, the one that distinguishes the difficulties faced by people in using new technologies once they have achieved access to them, and the one that focuses on the unequal opportunities that people have to take advantage of precisely these technologies. It is true that there has been a lot of talk lately about the digital divide, especially on the issue of financial institutions, where most of the transactions are made online, but it is no less true that the digital divide is taking place, as the motion says, also in the Administration, not only with the elderly, but with all kinds of taxpayers who cannot interact with them, either because their digital level is low or because they lack the necessary means, and this must be narrowed down. Indeed, as Mrs Fernández says, it is an outstanding subject at different levels of the Administration. It should also be said that small municipalities are the closest and usually have online access, but they also offer people access in person. It should also be said that in recent years great efforts have been made to digitize the Administration and the way in which citizens and businesses relate to it, so as to, as is often said, leave no one behind, and that means greater online citizen attention, of course, but it is also still necessary to maintain the face channel as an efficient support and accompaniment, because citizen care is a nuclear element and a right. However, it is also true that new technologies have come to stay, that online attention, far from stagnating, will go much further if possible, and that is why it will also be necessary to offer training-oriented initiatives in this regard and to identify the needs of those groups with the greatest difficulty in their relationship with new technologies to address effective measures, to narrow precisely what is being denounced here, the digital divide. We will support the motion tabled, because we understand that access to the public administration of all people must be ensured and, taking into account existing technology, make the apps, web pages, internet portals oplataforms even much more intuitive to facilitate their use. There are administrations, as I said, that are doing it. In fact, the Diputación Foral de Vizcaya a few days ago was awarded for its project of digital friendliness at the XII National Congress of Innovation and Public Services, precisely to identify the problems before the new technologies and define solutions that will apply to the groups of older people, and it is that the digital cannot be an obstacle to the relationship, especially between the administrations and the citizenry. Since this is my last speech, I congratulate you on the holidays. Happy holidays to everyone and everyone. Zorionak's a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u372	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u373	Thank you, Mr. President. As has already been said, digitisation must make life easier. The problem is when it is difficult, and it is often the Administration itself that contributes to this difficulty. The example is the numerous laws that increasingly force a digital relationship with the Administration without repairing that we are causing the exclusion of many people. That is why we think it is very important to address the digital divide. In fact, it is a permanent concern of the BNG. I would like to remind you that when the Socialist Party has not presented a GNP here long ago to urge the government to deploy the 5G we replied that we would find it much more urgent that we could have at least decent coverage everywhere, for example in the rural area of Galicia, so that nobody would be excluded; or that recently, as I said, an amendment by the BNG came forward in the CAP to ensure face-to-face attention, or the numerous initiatives on banking entities. The digital divide is real because of lack of digital skills or also because of lack of coverage. Therefore, it is important to ensure, as long as such coverage and skills are not guaranteed, face-to-face care, primarily in the public administration, but also in all companies providing services to citizens. Training strategies are fine, but it's important...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u374	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u375	...that the Administration is the first to act so as not to leave anyone behind. We shall therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u377	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. One reads the title and is a motivating call to address the digital divide in the provision of services to citizens by the public administration. When you read the motion you see that banking entities have been included in the public administration, and I thought: let's see if in a legislative plan of these we have here we have nationalized the bank and a server has not found out. I understand that that Bildu wouldn't take his sleep away either. I am more surprised than Citizens, when presenting the amendment, to keep banking entities within the public administration, which has already given me a lot of doubts. Beyond this nuance, where Citizens and Bildu agree to nationalize banking for just one day, I understand that we are faced with an issue that concerns us and we have also brought in different initiatives. It is true that, as a result of the pandemic, a part of the public administration has made a stake in digitalized care, and when the pandemic has passed, this has ended up becoming a problem. Why? Because there are many services of the Public Administration and the General Administration of the State where digital or telephone care has become a regular situation, and the truth is that it is not entirely diligent, it is neither easy to find an appointment nor it is easy to be attended to or it is easy to solve your problems even if you are digitized 100% and there is a situation that we denounce. Before, when there were gaps in service attention, the staff member, the official responsible, the person responsible for the service, saw the queues and visualized the angry people because they could not attend to it. This has now disappeared and has not improved the quality of the provision of these public services. We therefore share the essence of the proposal, regardless of whether they can deal or not. We have the doubt that the banking system is part of the public administration as a whole, but we know that it has been done with good intent. We shall therefore vote in favour. Since this is my last speech in this plenary, I would like to take this opportunity to wish all your ladies and gentlemen and all the staff of the House a Merry Christmas and a prosperous year of 2023, and to hope that this Next year among all of us will be able to make this House more dignifiedly represent all the fellow citizens we, the 350 Members, have the honour to represent. Very good Nadal and happy Any Nou!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u378	Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u379	Come on, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today a terrorist group comes to tell us that it wants to narrow the digital divide in the attention to citizens. Sounds like a joke, doesn't it? Bildu worried about narrowing gaps, when they were born, precisely, to open them. [[Applauds]] In particular, to open irreparable gaps in the broken heart of all the families of the victims who have to endure how this unscrupulous government whites and favors terrorists who mercilessly murdered their loved ones. [[Rumors]] It is simply foolish that they intend to make us believe in this motion that the political arm of ETA cares about the well-being of the citizenry, when reason...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u380	Your Honor, just a moment, please. I ask you, please, to abide by Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure, which, as you know, must abide by what we are debating. In particular, we are talking about public administration and the digital divide. So I ask you, please, to address this issue. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u381	President, I'm explaining...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u382	No, don't argue with me. Don't waste your precious time arguing with me. Take care of what I've told you. Thank you. [[Protests.-Sir Espinosa of the Mounts of Simon: Again, lack of judgment]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u383	As I said, it is a foolish thing to make us believe that billionaires care about the well-being of citizens, when the reason for their existence is precisely to bleed out the foundations of our democracy, which protects the freedom, equality and unity of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Digital breach. You want us to talk about a digital divide? But if Bildu is the only gap that matters to him is the gap that breaks down coexistence, the gap that discriminates between the Spanish language, that breaks down territorial unity, and the gap that destroys our rule of law. That's the only breach that matters to Bildu. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I have to say that VOX has always defended the need to drastically reduce bureaucracy and reconcile the face-to-face world with the digital world, precisely to ensure that all citizens have access to procedures with the Administration. We have recently done so, for example, in the process of the new common agricultural policy, where VOX expressly demanded that digital procedures be made compulsory in order to be able to carry them out immediately and thus save farmers and farmers from the digital discrimination imposed by this Government with its law, in a new attempt, by the way, to attack our primary sector and the rural world. But, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you something that everyone knows, and that is that in VOX we are never going to be accomplices, ever, ever, of any attempt to whitewash the billionaires, because, even though the terrorist is dressed as a congressman...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u384	Your Honor, for the second time I have to warn you that you have to stick to what we are debating. [[Mr. Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: But stop the clock, Mr. President. Stop the clock.]] You know that with a third call of attention I will unfortunately have to withdraw the word. So please get to the point. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u385	I'm explaining why this motion...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u386	Your Honor, you don't have to argue with me. I repeat this to you again, get to the Rules of Procedure and do not waste your time discussing with the Presidency, which will contribute nothing to the debate, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u387	Even if the terrorist is dressed as a congressman, ladies and gentlemen, a terrorist...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u388	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You do not have the floor for a third call to the question. [[Protests.-Applause.- Mr Espinosa of the Mounts of Simon: Always doing the same]] Thank you very much, Your Honor. I have drawn attention to the subject on three occasions. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Cortés Carballo has the floor. Please, I beg your silence. The spokesman for the People's Group must speak. Any time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u389	Thank you, President. Today, Euskal Herria Bildu brings us a motion to talk about a digital divide, I also understand that to be white now that they dictate the prison policy of this government. [[Applauds]] It can be seen that he is not very interested in the subject either, because, as you well know, what you really care about is being negotiated directly in the offices - as we have seen in the last budgets - as has been the rapprochement of ETA prisoners, the expulsion of the Navarra Civil Guard from prison benefits. For that, gentlemen of the PSOE, you didn't need any initiative or motion, did you? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party we are not going to amend this initiative because, unlike you, the People's Party has principles and only wants to talk to Bildu about two things: how you will work together to clarify the 379 outstanding murders of the terrorist gang, and when you will condemn the attacks that have caused so much suffering to Spanish society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u390	The honourable Member, please, I ask you, on the basis of Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure, to stick to the question, and you know what the question is. We're talking about a digital divide. I ask you, please, to stick to the matter. Thank you. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u391	On the other hand, the Group of the European People's Party is committed to digitisation, because we know that it is an unstoppable process that improves and facilitates the lives of citizens. But like any transformative process, if it is not done well, as it is happening, it can leave people who for various reasons - age, socio-economic situation or educational level - do not have the same learning tools as the rest of the population. This situation, contrary to what PSOE partners propose, is not reversed by paralysing digitization and returning to traditional face-to-face services; this situation is reversed with appropriate policy and resources. There must be face-to-face attention, but not to carry out the processes in a traditional way, but to accompany in this learning process. Why condemn a life without the advantages of technology to a part of the population that cannot have the same benefits as the rest? Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, a person who first comes to the digital world needs much more than a seven-hour course that will fatten the statistics of his National Plan of Digital Competences; they are wasting Europe's funds and it will not do any good. By the way, it is a plan that has serious problems of coordination and duplication. The ministries of Digital Transformation, Employment and Equality are giving the same courses with the same content precisely to the same women; it is shameful what they are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for citizens to know which body is helping, in which ministry or in which tab they need to tap on the complicated webs of ministries. They have to have a single window where only the information the citizen needs is shown. Today, technology, with artificial intelligence and conversational assistants, would directly allow the citizen to tell the Administration what it needs, and the Administration would demonstrate precisely what it needs without giving it those complicated websites and so much information. The training model has to be a permanent service of care and advice, because the needs of this population without digital skills are continuous and varied: from the handling of the mobile phone to asking for a medical appointment, aids of minimum vital income, online banking or any administrative procedure, whether of SEPE, of the regional government or of its council, but also with companies, such as downloading the bills of light, water or knowing the conditions of their telephone contract. Do you think, gentlemen of the PSOE, that you learn with seven hours in a course? Our model, for example, is the model of the Junta de Andalucía, where Juanma Moreno is developing digital training centers in every small town - we already have almost 800 - where digital mentors with indefinite contract - percent, paid by the Junta and the deputies - advise in all the services that the population needs, where every citizen learns at their own pace and where, moreover, citizens feel accompanied in this increasingly digital world. These Centers are being completed with online banking services, and have ATMs that are serviced by videoconferencing so that users can do the same things they used to do in their branches. They also have tele-assistance services and, of course, have all the technological means to do so. Gentlemen of the PSOE, it is urgent that you remember again that you are here to govern for all Spaniards and to seek solutions, such as these I explain to you, that help people with fewer opportunities, and not to think about how to get their government partners out of jail, how to undermine the constitutional principles that we all gave ourselves, or how to confront the Spaniards with each other. Gentlemen of the PSOE, when you remember all this again, maybe it's late. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u392	Thank you very much. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u393	Yes, we are working on a transactional with the Socialist Party and the United We Can. As soon as we have it, we'll pass it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-21-CD221221.u394	All right, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended. It was seven and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
