ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is opened. We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to amend the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October, approving the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute Act, and the Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, approving the consolidated text of the Basic Staff Regulations Act, on the regulation of maternity and paternity leave, allowing its extension to 26 weeks in the case of single-parent families. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs García-Pelayo Jurado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to rise to this rostrum to defend, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, the proposal for a law amending the Workers' Statute and the Basic Staff Regulations. With regard to the regulation of maternity and paternity leave, allowing it to be extended to 26 weeks in the case of single-parent families. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has been, is and will always remain the party of families. We demonstrate this in our various governments with measures such as tax deductions for the benefit of families; measures to support reconciliation; measures to facilitate and promote telework; reduction of working hours up to the age of 12 of the child; increase of paternity leave; recognition of the maternity gap in pensions, or we demonstrate this with the approval of a comprehensive family support plan, with 16 billion euros. Today, with this proposal for a law that I defend on behalf of my group, we renew once again our commitment to uncomplexed support for the family. In this case, and within the diversity of families that currently exist, we commit ourselves to single-parent, integrated families, either by personal decision or by a situation that has arisen, by a single parent, parent or adopter who is engaged in raising his or her son, daughter or children alone and in addition to doing so at times like the present, which are especially difficult and which require exceptional decisions and measures by a government that, as always, looks elsewhere, and not only does not lower taxes on families or create jobs, but is not even able to lead the regulatory changes that, like this, society and two million single-parent families rightly demand. Specifically, this modification of the normative texts that we plant has a clear objective: to eliminate the inequality or discrimination that implies, both for the son or daughter and for the father or mother, to be born and grow up within a single parent family. The current legislation obviates the reality of single-parent families, leaving them in limbo for the purpose of regulating the length of maternity or paternity leave, since both the Workers'Statute and the Public Employee's Basic do not recognize the right of parents or adopters, in the case of single-parent families, to a maternity or paternity leave of 26 weeks, which is the total benefit of families consisting of two parents or adopters. Asia, both the Workers'Statute and the Public Employee's Basic recognize the right of both parents to a leave of sixteen weeks after childbirth or adoption, six weeks of which must be immediately after these two moments, allowing the remaining ones to be applied for by the parents in succession. In this way, the child and the parents or adopters can enjoy both the care of the parents and the company of the children up to a total of 26 weeks. On the other hand, as far as clear discriminatory and unfair treatment is concerned, the child of a single parent and his or her parent, parent or adopter may enjoy the same rights only for 16 weeks. Defining the situation as clearly discriminatory, what the People's Parliamentary Group is pursuing with the proposed law that we are debating today is ending it, recognizing an equal period of maternity leave for single-parent families. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I call on you to support this initiative so that we can show the citizens that politics and politicians are really useful and that we are responding to people's real problems. This Parliament cannot ignore or deny that the reality of the family has changed over time and that today, and as the National Statistical Institute acknowledges, there are a total of 1,944,800 households made up of single-parent families, which also account for 10% of Spanish families; families to which we cannot leave out, but quite the contrary, because in addition, if they rush me, it is important to pay special attention to them, because approximately 81% of them are single-parent families made up of women and, at a much lower percentage, 18% are made up of men. They are families who, regrettably, often find themselves in a situation of greater vulnerability, since the difficulties inherent in the care and upbringing of children are joined by others arising from more problems in order to be able to reconcile. But, moreover, the initiative that the parliamentary group is now moving in the form of a bill is in line with what is already a legal pronouncement. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament is late; once again, the laws are behind reality, they are obsolete, and that is why we must act, we must legislate, but also speedily. The citizens and the courts are marking our rhythms, they are marking our times. For example, associations of single-parent families have been demanding legislative action for years because they cannot understand that when there has already been a cascade of court decisions recognizing the right to extend maternity leave, citizens are forced to resort to the public administration and then to the courts over and over again. Indeed, many judgements handed down at different points in Spain are reviewing rulings in favour of the extension of maternity leave. Judges in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Galicia, Castile and León, the Valencian Community or Catalonia have recognized the right to enlargement. But it is that even the General Council of the Judiciary itself has endorsed the accumulation of permits, as is the case with a Catalan magistrate. In some cases, judges grant the right to additional weeks of maternity leave; in others, they grant 26 weeks. But since January 2021, the judges themselves admit, even, the accumulation of the two permits, that is, 32 weeks. It is that denying them this right to the children of single-parent families implies a clear violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 20 November 1989 and authorized by the General Courts in accordance with article 94.1 of our Constitution, which establishes the general principle that all measures taken by public or private institutions concerning social services, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies must necessarily be in accordance with the primary consideration of the best interests of the child, the child; and further orders that this action be carried out without any distinction and without regard in any case to the national, ethnic or social origin, the economic position, the situation which may have a disability, the birth or any other condition of the child, his parents or even his legal representatives. But neither can this House forget - but rather, on the contrary, promote - the right of parents to enjoy the company of their children without any distinction. It is therefore important that all measures being promoted to facilitate reconciliation and work and family co-responsibility to advance equality of opportunity between men and women should be joined by this initiative in the form of a bill which, although promoted by my group, we are looking forward to the endorsement of all groups. Moreover, this is not the first time that my political group, the People's Group, has presented an initiative to the General Courts to demand recognition of the rights of single-parent families. It is not only the arguments of fairness that justify this legal change that we propose, there are also political justifications. Indeed, the People's Parliamentary Group defended the need to improve the rights of single-parent families; we did so almost a year ago through a non-law proposal that my colleague Teresa Angulo defended. At that time, the People's Parliamentary Group urged the Socialist Government to promote a comprehensive single-parent family law, a law that would grant the recognition and security that these families are demanding and waiting for, and that would include law-class measures that would ensure social coverage for these types of families. A year ago they voted against, today they have no excuse, we give them the job done. Almost two million families are waiting for them. Furthermore, do not take this the wrong way, but it would not be understood either - and here there is another political justification - the vote against the parties that make up the government, and I explain myself. Last year, in particular during November, the Government moved through the Minister of Social Security, José Luis Escrivá - and this is literal - that there is a problem of equity with the permission of single-parent mothers and, in addition, the Minister himself added that the Government, which was already working on this issue in November last year, was analysing the extension of maternity leave to single-parent mothers and that it is an issue that needs to be addressed from the point of view of the issue of equity that it raises. I would insist that it would be contradictory, despite the announcement of Minister Escrivá's commitment, today they will vote against it. There is another political reason for supporting this bill, and in this case I am addressing the Podemos Group in particular. The Minister of Social Rights, Ms.Belara, announced the temporary extension of maternity leave in the case of single-parent families, within the framework of the future law - which we do not yet know - of family diversity; a law which, I insist, has not yet brought the Government to the House, but which seems to be marked as an objective - and it is very commendable - will help families in Spain to attend to their diversity. The minister herself also announced that the paternity and maternity leave would be extended from four to six months, although later, in the State General Budgets, we have not seen a single item to support this commitment. That is why - and it has ended - the People's Parliamentary Group brings to the House an urgent and necessary bill that fills a legal gap and legally recognizes a right already recognized by the courts. We hope that they will not waste more time on families, in this case single-parent families, and now I am addressing them in particular: I do not know what this House will finally vote on, but in any case I say to all families who always keep in mind that in the PP they will have an ally that will never fail them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs García-Pelayo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The adoption of this bill by the People's Parliamentary Group, which I will support with my favourable vote, would allow a significant advance in favour of the children of single-parent families, i.e. those in which a single parent - in the vast majority of cases, the mother - attends to their care, equalizing their rights with those of the children of families with two parents, also called two-parents. This issue, as has just been highlighted, should be reflected in the 26-week extension of maternity and paternity leave for single-parent families. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the false varnish of progressiveism with which he likes to adorn himself with this government, it must be pointed out once again that corrective measures are being extended over time in line with those proposed in this legislative initiative. The obstacles that prevent solving issues that deepen the improvement of social rights almost always run into the Ministry of Finance, but the repeated discrepancies between the members of the blue bank itself do not help either. However, whoever is ultimately responsible for resolving the obstacles, it is of absolute relevance that the General Courts act on the insufficient legal reform carried out exactly two years ago, which has been implemented with effect from 1 January 2021. This - it should be stressed - has already been translated into benefits to which each of the two parents of the two parent families can benefit, but - and hence the importance of the legislative changes promoted by this initiative - to which the parent of the single parent family, who does not have by law the right to enjoy additional weeks to extend the permission by birth, adoption or reception, cannot access equally. That is - and I stress this - the Government is taking all the time in the world and all the parsimony to analyse the economic impacts of extending maternity leave to single-parent families. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be recalled that the adoption of the Royal Decree Law 6/2019 of 1 March of urgent measures to guarantee equal treatment and opportunities for women and men in employment and occupation advanced in the equalization of the length of rest periods after the birth of a child or their adoption, and also in custody for the adoption or foster care of both adoptive parents, guardians or foster children. These measures were aimed at achieving real and effective equality between men and women in promoting the reconciliation of personal and family life and in the principle of co-responsibility between the two. Single-parent families should also have their rights recognized through measures that extend and ensure their protection. In fact, different parliamentary initiatives have been adopted in this fourteenth legislature, both in the Senate and here in Congress, urging that the situation of single-parent families and the equalization of their rights with other families be addressed. It draws attention, in this regard, to the fact that the respective commissions on the rights of children and adolescents have expressed themselves very broadly in agreement, inter alia, with the impulse for modifications to establish an additional length of leave for the birth and care of the child for single-parent families in time equal to that enjoyed by the second parent in a two-parent family. That is, it is about providing identical protection to sons and daughters, improving conciliation, protecting labour rights and eliminating any discrimination against women. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the draft family law or family diversity law is concerned - whose approval Spain has committed to the European Union - it seems that it is intended to establish that single-parent families can have access to more support, and it is also intended to give them the option of extending their maternity leave up to a full year or, failing that, that the father or mother shall have six months and shall give another six to a convivial or even a family member of up to a second degree of consanguinity or affinity. However, the Government claims that this right is deferred, i.e. that it will not come into force with the adoption of the law, but with the passage of time. That is why it is more valuable than the opposition, in this case at the initiative of the People's Group, to go ahead with the Government so that the right of single-parent families can enter into force as soon as possible and without delay. Finally, I would like to point out that the measures promoted by this consideration seek to update legislatively what different courts have already ruled in favour of equal rights for any kind of family model. Some are sentences to the thread of which the Superior Court of the Basque Country failed in October 2020, giving reason to a mother who claimed to join the two permits that the two parents of two parents would have. The very statement of reasons accompanying this consideration already refers to the judgments with which many judges have accepted the accumulation of the permits corresponding to both parents in the person of the only one existing in single-parent families. And that is why Mrs García-Pelayo is quite right this afternoon when she calls for the use of legislators to make this matter clear through the law, without leaving it to the interpretation of the courts or without dragging to raise disputes with the mothers or parents concerned. I conclude, Madam President, by reaffirming the need for legislative changes in favour of the family to be a priority for any Government, because the future urgently needs, without rodeos or delays, to strengthen the basic pillar of the welfare state. There will be no future for Spain if the commitments on reconciliation of family, work and personal life and on maternity protection policies are not updated. We are at the tail of the European Union At birth; Asturias - let me stress it - to the tail of Spain. Our country will fail dramatically if the administrations do not accelerate the strengthening of the family as a backbone institution of society. In this respect, the updated official statistical indicators are strong and Spain is on the wrong track. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u6	Madam President, Mr Guztioi. The fact of the motherhood and care of the creatures throughout the times and societies has been managed in a very different way, depending on who or what was placed in the center: the mother, the creature or the needs of the patriarchal system, which, at certain times, prioritizes the chain of production and, consequently, facilitates under imperatives that the mother clings to it as soon as possible, or, on the contrary, when there is a surplus of labour, it places her in the home and in the care of the members of the family group. But today we are going to talk about putting creatures and their right to be cared for and cared for by attachment figures in the first months of life. We also place at the centre, in this case, families in their diversity, which to meet this right of care need policies that collect measures of reconciliation of personal, family and work life so that the upbringing of the first months is guaranteed. We emphasize single-parent families, of which 82% are single-parent families. You are, today, in most companies, both in the public and private sectors, there is no guarantee that the mother will be able to enjoy the second non-existent parent's discharge. We share the spirit of this bill, but consider it to be short. In our training we advocate that 32 weeks of permission be guaranteed to single-maritime families. We believe that these measures should be developed in a broader law, taking into account the family realities of today's society and centralizing the issue of care. We also think, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that it takes a lot of hypocrisy and a lot of shame to do what you are doing. You, too, one day and another, attack equality policies, policies that reconcile, feminist policies to sustain women's lives; you deny progress in social policies that protect us and try to prevent progress in effective equality. Now, you come to wash your face with these kinds of proposals that you don't believe or defend yourself. We understand that they have to strike a balance between negotiating with the ultra-right in the morning and seem to be concerned about women's rights in the afternoon. But don't use us; don't use us for your political games. By the way, how do you intend to pay for the extension of the permits that you propose yourself? Indeed, with public resources for equality policies. I will repeat this: with public resources for equality policies. Explain it to your partner Mrs Ayuso and stop playing with us and our rights to try to weaken the political opponent. I demand respect from you. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u8	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It happens that, without claiming it, the Royal Decree Law 6/2019 of 1 March, with the measure of equalization of the duration of the birth permits by son and daughter of both parents in 16 weeks has been able to generate inequality between different types of families, between the traditional and the single parent, but, by extension, it also produces it in the scope of coverage that must be given to minors by all types of families. And a situation of discrimination can be created both in relation to these minors, who are directed above all to this measure of paternity or maternity leave to meet their needs, and also and specifically with regard to women, since, as has been recalled in this rostrum, they are the main recipients, where appropriate, of any measure directed at single-maritime families, since they constitute to a large extent such single-maritime families. It stated the explanatory statement of that Royal Decree Law 6/2019 that the measure of equalization of the duration of permits for the birth of children of both parents was in line with the will to - I said so - achieve real and effective equality between men and women in promoting the reconciliation of personal and family life and in the principle of co-responsibility between both parents. And he spoke of his protection in different constitutional precepts, in 9.2 and 14 of the Constitution, in paragraphs 2 and 3.2 of the Treaty on European Union and in Articles 21 and 23 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. However, we have seen that its application has made known to us a characteristic that was not warned at the time, and it was that that measure of the legislator was fundamentally directed at traditional families, at biparental families and that, however, and without claiming it, it has negative consequences for single-parent families, since, in principle, only a parent could appear as a possible beneficiary of that measure. But the fundamental premise for assessing this situation and for understanding the relevance of this proposed law is its legal characterization. That royal decree not only gave substance to the principle of non-discrimination in order to achieve effective equality between men and women, by equalizing the leave and obligations with respect to both parents, but also placed both parents in the same legal position, meaning that both parents had equal rights to benefit. This is the important thing: it conceives of that right in respect of each parent as an independent and intransferable benefit. This premise is the one that has produced this undesirable consequence, as has found a succession of jurisprudence that we can qualify as a minor, although it is already quite widespread, starting from the one of 6 October 2020 of the Chamber of Social Law of the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country, that although each beneficiary has access to a different benefit, all of them have as their object the identical purpose: the care of the minor through conciliation. This means that, while the basis for child protection coverage has the same scope to justify permission in all cases, in the case of two-parent families it could reach the figure of 26 weeks - since the first six are mandatory for both - while for single-parent families protection could only reach 16 weeks, since the first 10 were not counted as overlapping with the other. We must therefore say, first, that the current regulation differentiates the treatment given to the child according to the type of family where he or she was born, that is, introduces a discriminatory element according to the circumstances of origin; and, secondly, because it is understood that the rules on fundamental rights prevail over any other, it can be found that the protection granted to the child in this case constitutes a violation of article 3 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, as it obliges the public authorities to ensure that the application of the rules does not imply any kind of discriminatory treatment - when it can be found that it involves material treatment - and it obliges the best interests of the child to be placed on the axis of his or her normative production, and in this case it forgets that parameter. As we see, the result of their application discriminates against minors in the care of their family of origin. Secondly, there is another element to which reference has also been made, and it is noted that the vast majority of single-parent families are made up of women, the consequence of the treatment is a breach of article 14 of the Constitution, in that the protection granted and the foundations of family life are recognized differently according to the type of family to which we are referring. There is also another issue that has been referred to as a reason for the possibility of adopting this rule, and it is that, apart from the legal debate that we are going to be producing, single-parent families are forced to go to a process, first administrative and then judicial, for the recognition of these rights, although we are not yet aware that this decision - if not for this new legal regulation - will reach a definitive tone. That is why, apart from the legal debate that may have triggered, apart from the political debate that some have wanted to take advantage of, the fact is that it is a measure of material justice that also comes to recognize a situation of equity for different types of families and to introduce in the system a correction of an undesirable element that possibly - possibly, no, I am absolutely sure - did not want that Law 6/2019 at the time of its production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u10	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a law brought to us today by the People's Party addresses an issue with which the Spanish liberals have always agreed: the protection of families, of all families; and I say this because there is a part of this House that excludes the family diversity that makes up our country. As it cannot be otherwise, in Citizens we will vote in favour of extending parental leave or maternity leave by childbirth or adoption to 26 weeks for parents of single parents. We will do so because it is a question of justice and because it involves advancing against inequality in our country; a struggle in which we will always be the liberals. When we talk about equality, we have to bear in mind that, despite the remarkable changes we have achieved in recent times, inequalities between women and men in the labour market are evident. It is still the women who mostly earn the interprofessional minimum wage and those who have university studies earn about 9500 euros less per month compared to men. Another important factor of inequality stems from inequality in the sharing of family responsibilities. The Spaniards have many problems reconciling their working life and the time to be with the family. 68% of workers report problems in reconciling and 81% if they are women with minors. Several studies also point to the consequences of these differences in the field of motherhood and paternity. Specifically, it refers to the different behavior that men and women have when we have children. It is usually women who bear the costs associated with caring for family responsibilities. In fact, it is found that mothers suffer a sharp drop in income during the first two years of the child's birth, 30%, something that does not happen to men. And this situation gets worse when we talk about the case of single-parent families. In Spain, as has already been said, there are two million single-parent families and eight out of ten families are headed by women. In these single-parent households supported by women, the risk of poverty is double that of those headed by men, 52 per cent compared to 25 per cent. With regard to the wage gap affecting women, women face greater difficulties in finding or having access to the labour market and a greater part of the temporality affects women, with a large difference from that of men leading single-parent families. In addition, we have to add to these situations of inequality that neither the Workers' Statute nor the Staff Regulations recognize the peculiarities of single-parent families. Both parents recognize the right of both parents to a permit of 16 weeks after childbirth or adoption, allowing the child to enjoy the care and companionship of his parents 26 weeks. However, when a single parent is a child, he or she can only enjoy 16 weeks corresponding to the only parent he or she has, placing him or her at a disadvantage and constituting discrimination that must be corrected. As we have said, Spain has been entitled from 2021 to 32 weeks of parental leave. In the case of single-parent families it is 16 weeks. Moreover, as I said, it must be borne in mind that most of these single-parent families make up or lead women. That is why it is very necessary to correct this discriminatory situation towards single-parent families and, above all, their children; a situation which has already been endorsed by different judicial rulings when it is understood that this is a situation of discrimination, even if it is said that it is a situation of indirect discrimination on the grounds of sex, since the number of single-parent families formed by women is significantly higher than that formed by men. For all this, we shall vote in favour. Now, I am surprised that it is the People's Party that brings to this House a measure that he always listened to deaf people, until in 2016 Citizens forced him to sign on to his investiture agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I thank you, but I would also ask you to reduce hypocrisy a little bit when we talk, especially about some members of your party when it comes to dealing with inequality and social issues. And I have to tell you that if you here are fighting the wage gap and wage poverty, what I don't understand is how a counselor from the Madrid Community says he doesn't see the poor. What happens, that the poor have to have him tattooed on the forehead to realize what poverty is? Why do places in your city walk? Are you talking to the families? Do you really know the citizenship of Madrid? Do you know what it's like not to get to the end of the month? Do you know what it's like not to be able to pay for what your children need? Do you know what it's like to not be able to pay rent and be afraid to be kicked out of your house? [[Applauds]] What I want is for them to be told that poverty exists, unfortunately, and that it is dealt with with with with a great deal of respect and sensitivity, please. [[Applauds]] Alongside this, another shows in relation to equality. Let's talk about equality. It turns out that to refer to the Government, its future president refers to it as an autistic government, words that show little sensitivity and ignorance of the reality of the people who suffer from this disorder, by using it as an insult. I ask you to be consistent, ladies and gentlemen, respect and, when it comes to equality, to defend it in all its areas, to defend it in all its extremes, and to ensure that none of its leaders attacks any person, either on his or her disability or on his or her ethnic status or on his or her gender status or on any condition. I therefore appeal to you for that responsibility. I tell you that we are clearly going to support this proposal because liberals are always on the side of equality and on all sides of equality. What we hope, however, is that you too will be respectful of those proposals that are brought on an equal footing, even by other political parties, because it seems that when judges, television or the protection agency are distributed, they forget about sanchism, but for other issues they take them very seriously. I therefore appeal to your responsibility. I tell you that we also have to be more ambitious and in Citizens we make a proposal for a national plan of reconciliation and co-responsibility at national level, with all the ministries and all the actors that must address this issue. Therefore, I invite you to continue working. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u12	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG defends to increase to 32 weeks the permission for birth and care of children in the case of single-parent families. We believe that it is a matter of justice to put an end to obvious discrimination that is of interest to the child. That is why, in July 2021, we presented initiatives in this House for the Government to act by amending the implementing legislation, proposals which unfortunately were not taken into account. I would also like to point out that in September of the same year, also on the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Galician Parliament unanimously adopted a resolution to address the Government, urging it to recognise the right of single-parent families to extend the said permit up to 32 weeks. It should also be recalled that there are already several judgements that recognize this right. That is why we are surprised and concerned by the Government's refusal to legislate to do so, giving way to the People's Party which, in its infinite capacity of demagogy - for it is evident that it does not lose opportunity, does not lose opportunity to question and criticize equality policies - now defends a right that it did not recognize when it ruled and that it would not recognize with absolute certainty if it ruled either. In any case, with consistency, the BNG will vote in favour of the consideration, although we announce that we will be tabling amendments from the 26 weeks proposed to 32 which, by the way, reflect the majority of the judgments handed down so far. As I was saying, we believe it is an elementary question of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in More Green Country-Equo we are really surprised - I have to say, I am happy to say - by this proposal. It is a measure that we have been demanding for a long time and that has to resolve a manifestly unfair situation that is not understood as not being resolved by the Government. Single-parent families, which are actually single-parent families, because eight out of ten families are supported by women, have to be guaranteed a fair help to have, moreover, much greater family burden. But we also want to guarantee the rights of all families, whatever they may be, and that is why we have been proposing different measures throughout the legislature to support families, to guarantee care permits, to extend paternity and maternity permits to six months or to create a universal child benefit. But what I would really like to know today is with which People's Party we have risen today and with which People's Party we are debating this initiative, whether with the People's Party that eliminates from the Community of Madrid children's schools from 3 to 6 years old, with the People's Party of Ayuso that proposes to eliminate and use the budgeted money from maternity and paternity benefits to help families to raise prices or we are debating with the PP that brings this proposal. We're going to support her. I hope that we are discussing this proposal with the PP, but I am very afraid that we are discussing it more with the Madrid People's Party, which deals with the far right, than with the one with which this proposal is brought today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u16	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law put before us by the People's Party makes a correct approach to amending the Workers' Statute, the Basic Staff Regulations and the General Social Security Act, an approach to surgically rectifying an existing reality, which is the issue of the treatment of single-parent families in the issue of maternity and paternity leave. This issue is polyhedral and we could say that it allows for a work-based approach, from the benefit point of view, from the welfare state point of view, but, above all, the approach we must take is from the perspective of children and children's rights. There is no doubt in this area that the current legislation must be adapted to a clearly unfair situation, a situation which is materially unfair. It is to adapt something that has already been resolved judicially and, therefore, to articulate legally in the rule of application the equal rights regardless of the type of family in which these children are born. I would like to make a small review of relevant judgments in this area, because there is one of October 2021 in Barcelona, another of October 2020 in the Basque Country, another of June 2021 in Castile-Leon, another of June 2021 in Galicia, a very recent one, of February 2022 of a social court in Santander, and to give them a little reflection that I believe we can all share, a reality, that is that justice is slow in this state and that judicial proceedings are prolonging. Therefore, when there have already been judgments since October 2020, since June 2021, with so many prior judicial records, it is clear that this regulation is late. This is not the first time that it has happened, we have already done here a modification of the Workers' Statute in relation to dismissals in case of recidivism in medical discharges, and because, systematically, sentences that consider these dismissals to be totally null and void appeared. Now, also systematically, there are judgments alleging that this is a totally unfair situation for single-parent families, but, above all, unfair and discriminatory for minors. Therefore, it is our duty, regardless of who comes the initiative, to correct this injustice concerning single-parent families and the days of leave they may enjoy and therefore not to condemn these families to plead, to have to fight for these rights, but to recognize them directly in the law, and therefore also to set clear margins for conciliation and for what the public administration can do, also in the field of welfare and benefits in this area. For this reason, we will vote in favour of considering the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u18	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is curious to read the history of the People's Party. According to the statement of reasons for the proposed law that we are debating today, it seems as if women and mothers had only acquired rights until the twenties of the last century, and that the people who led these conquests were basically men and of conservative sonship. According to you, it seems that women's rights did not make progress during the Second Republic. In fact, from the historical account of his initiative, it seems that even the Second Republic would not have existed. To contextualize: you speak of Cánovas del Castillo, but never of Nativity Yarza; you refer to Eduardo Dato, but never to Aurora Bertrana; you speak of Antonio Maura, but you probably have not even heard the name Maria Aurèlia Capmany. In fact, even if they wanted to obviate the Catalan social and civil fighters, they could have mentioned, at least, the historic deputies of the Victoria Kent Courts, Margarita Nelken and Clara Campoamor. With some historical rigour, some reference could have been made to the achievement of universal women's suffrage, the right to divorce or equal rights among children born within or outside marriage, all of them conquests of the republican period. But nothing, none of it has been included in your explanatory statement. For all this, and because we are well aware of its history of parliamentary voting, which includes, among other things, the rejection of the extension of paternity permits just two years ago, it is clear that the proposal they bring to the debate today is nothing more than a tactical movement. We are in the umpteenth play of cheap politics between PP and PSOE to try to look for a bad headline to the contrary, this time using children's rights as artillery. Honestly, we find it difficult to believe in their concern for equal rights between different family models. Like anyone who has prepared the debate with a bit of rigour, we know that a change of legal direction has been taking place for months and that the courts are already beginning to recognize the right to accumulate maternity leave in cases of single-parent families. Therefore, in view of the progress that is beginning to be made, and before the members of the Government can consolidate the law, it is public that have spoken in this regard both Minister Belarus and Minister Escrivá, there is a sad race to see who mediately appropriates this possible victory. We are not naive and we are very aware of everything I have just told. However, despite all this, we believe that this initiative remains an opportunity to ensure a new acquisition of rights. And in the face of this, there's nothing to discuss. For those who don't know, the reality is that there are almost no 16-week-old babies currently in children's schools, because most families take them, as soon as possible, to the twenty-sixth, twenty-eight or'thirty week, organizing themselves with accumulation of vacations and permissions from both parents. It is not for anyone to have to experience a physical separation of such a young child for many hours because of the simple dictate of labor needs, knowing the need to create bond and attachment that babies so much need until later and, less so, taking into account the fact that, so far, the right of access to children's schools is far from being guaranteed by means of their gratuitousness. The Generalitat de Catalunya is taking steps in this direction. The course to come will be free of charge the schooling of children 2, but the achievement of such a horizon of total gratuity is impossible without a financial bet from those who collect taxes and have the financial means: the State. In order to understand the relevance of the issue we are dealing with, we must ask ourselves: what are the mothers and parents of single-parent families currently doing during these ten weeks less than they have to care for their children? How do you manage? The answer is clear: if, like most, they need to work, they outsource the care of their children; if they are lucky enough to be able to afford it, they hire someone to take care of it, and if, as many - financially - cannot bear this expense, they manage it as well as they can, with their grandparents. When we say grandparents we mean grandmothers; that is, we are faced with a triple discrimination: for the baby, for the mother and for the grandmothers. Obviously, no one is saying that caring for a grandson is a burden, but we do want to make it clear that having to care for anyone because there is no material alternative, because that is what economic needs dictate, it is not a desirable scenario. On the other hand, precisely because of the fact that the PP has submitted it, this proposal for a law can be the basis for consolidating, quickly and without further discussion than strictly necessary, a right that is necessary and urgent to protect. Left Republican we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, and we are going to do it for three reasons. The first, in defense of children's rights. Conditions of equal care and care for girls and boys must be guaranteed, regardless of the home in which they were born. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of protecting the rights of working people as well. Basically, what we are discussing is not whether single mothers will be able to take care of their children full-time after sixteen weeks, but we are discussing whether they will be able to do such a thing those who need to work to live, those who cannot afford to give up their wages. It is also a matter of class. Finally, Esquerra Republicana will vote in favour of extending maternity and paternity leave to single-parent families, trusting that such progress can also function as an advance towards an expansion of maternity. It's justice. This debate should not cover the fact that there is another more general need: we need to improve all maternity and paternity leave. I hope that this first debate will help us to achieve this second demand as well. I'm on my way, President. In conclusion,...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u19	Mrs. Pujol, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u20	I'll be done in ten seconds. ... Despite the hypocrisy of some, we will not miss any opportunity to advance in civil, social and labour rights. We are not going to miss the opportunity to offer better childcare and better living conditions to working mothers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u22	Good afternoon. The fundamental demand for this initiative is a question of equality and, therefore, it is a question of a country project, and from these principles - the values that make us defend the equal rights of all families, small and medium-sized agri-food producers, people working in the transport sector - today I want to mention the Saharan people and the representatives we have in the gallery. [[Applauds]] I want to convey to you the firm commitment of Unidad Podemos, of the Confederal Group with Western Sahara, because it is a matter of historical responsibility, coherence and memory. And I say this because until forty-seven years ago there were representatives of the Saharan people in this House, who were left to owe the fair process of decolonization that only seventeen territories throughout the world have not been fulfilled; one of them is our responsibility and is our shame. Write Ali Salem Iselmu - one of the Saharan poets who continue to write in Spanish since exile - as a reminder of that past: Tell them that the land is not theirs, tell them that the people are not theirs, tell them that the stones need to be free. Our group defends here and now the legitimate right of this people to a referendum according to their right to self-determination recognized by the United Nations. [[Applause.-Various ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, display two flags of the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic and several symbols]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, please collect all symbols and badges. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to pick up all the badges you have displayed. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u24	Thank you. It has taken up the proposal that the People's Parliamentary Group is now bringing us, which is a proposal for single-maritime families - and I am going to say it using language, being aware that language is within the public space and, therefore, it is always an act of policy whether conscious or not, whether or not I am therefore talking about single-maritime families - because it is more than 80% of those families of a single parent who carry them women, mothers. Already in 2019 Save the Children warned us that half of the single-maritime families in the state are at risk of poverty. In addition, we have indicators - it has already been mentioned - in the judgments of the courts, but also of the Ombudsman's Office, and even the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has been appealed to, that we are faced with an inequality not as long as the labour law but as long as the right to children, and this is what my group is asking and concerned about. Mrs García-Pelayo, we do not agree in the previous parliamentary term - I am referring to the XII - so I tell you that for me the defence of equal and non-transferable care permits was a priority in that parliamentary term, it was for my parliamentary group and it is for this Government because of the principle of equality and understanding that this, from a labour law, cannot be discriminatory depending on whether one is one or the other parent. But we are also clear - and for that we work within the family law that prepares this government in continuous dialogue with associations, trade union organizations, expert persons - that children's rights must be guaranteed always and equally, and that includes the right to care. In 2016 we came to hear in this House things like that could not be the permissions of care in the first year of life, either at birth - birth, by the way, not birth -, reception or adoption - welcome also, by the way, is another lack that has the text of this law that they present -. Since then, since 2016, we no longer have to listen that this cannot be if it goes to the detriment of the dreary Social Security box. I am very pleased to hear that now the spokesman for Forum Asturias is in agreement with a measure that he did not share a few years ago, and it makes me think that this is because feminism has an unstoppable advance. The defence of understanding that the right of all persons to be cared for must be a shared responsibility of the State is also in this. [[Applauds]] But you will see, it is that this has to be dealt with in an integral way and not only with that equality, which is a question of justice, of permits. You bring a regulation that is punctual, that has no plan. The difficulties faced by these families are structural and have to be addressed in measures and rights in all areas, in the socio-laboral, but also in education, in housing, in the public prosecutor's office and in health. That is why this Government is also moving towards a State care system where the State is responsible; that is why there is an advisory desk for care set up by the Ministry of Equality, to which the text of the Family Law has also been transferred, because the answer has to be comprehensive. And that's why this government just a few days ago announced the III strategic equality plan; a plan in which the EUR 20 319 million, which some of its lordships seem to be upset, is intended, to a large extent and until 2025, to improve the care situation in families. So tell leader Isabel Díaz Ayuso, who says that it would be better for her if this were for families and to overcome inflation, that those more than 20 billion euros will be allocated to families. Because, who do you think has been taking care of our entire history? Does the redistribution of care work sound like anything to you? This plan contains the provision for birth, adoption or foster care permits, and I suppose that is why you bring this initiative, precisely to counter the slip you gave last week. But this plan also allows parents who can have time with guarantees to care for their children and adolescents with serious illnesses such as cancer. And it is for all families, for all, also tell Diaz Ayuso, because not all families have women. Or do we only remember the rights of the LGBTI community when the manifestation of the Pride approaches? It's over. Do you know what has made things very difficult for families, and especially single-maritime families, working families? Do you know what's gotten very difficult? The cuts in public services, cuts in health, education, labour and civil rights that they exercised during their Government during the 2008 crisis. [[applause]] So let's talk about care permits, let's talk about a national care system, let's talk about equality policies, let's talk about improving the material conditions of people's lives, but let's do it rigorously. And I'm telling you this because in my parliamentary group we are thirty-four and we know that you will have some more advisers to bring better laws and if not to help the government...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u25	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u26	... that we're doing them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u27	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time, but I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that arguments are being made in the Chamber, and freedom of expression is being used and expressed with the use of the floor. I would therefore be grateful if you would refrain from displaying symbols of any kind, posters or other objects. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u28	With all due respect, Madam President. Single-parent families, i.e. those in which only the father or mother lives with the minor children in his care, are a reality in Spain. In fact, this reality accounts for 10% of the total Spanish households. If we go to the latest updated data available to us, we find that in 2020, according to the National Institute of Statistics, there are a total of 1,944,800 single-parent households in Spain. Faced with the manipulations that some groups have again poured on our formation during the debate of this parliamentary initiative - listen to me well, ladies and gentlemen, because you have to give it all very chewed - single-parent families are families and as such have to be protected by the protection provided for in Article 39 of the Spanish Constitution when it provides for the obligation of the public authorities to ensure the social, economic and legal protection of families. [[applause]] The proposal for a law which we are debating today addresses a problem claimed by single parents in Spain in the light of the situation of obvious inequality in which children who only have a father or a mother under the current regulation of the system of paternity and maternity leave by childbirth or adoption, because the current regulation establishing both the Workers' Statute and the Basic Staff Regulations is the truth that ignores the peculiarities of single parents' families. At present, both legislative texts recognize the right of the father and mother, where both exist, to a leave of sixteen weeks after delivery or adoption, six of which must be immediately after these two moments, allowing the remaining weeks to be requested by the parents in succession. This situation leads us, as I have indicated, to a situation of obvious inequality from the moment when the minor child, who after childbirth or adoption has only one of our parents, can enjoy his or her dedication and care after the weeks following the birth for a total of sixteen weeks, compared to the twenty-six weeks enjoyed by the children who have his or her father and mother with them, which puts single parents in a clear situation of disadvantage compared to the minor who does have both parents. The best interests of the child require that both situations be matched by justice, equity and constitutional mandate, because this is also provided for in article 39 of our fundamental text in its second paragraph, which I mentioned earlier, when it points out the obligation of the public authorities to ensure the full protection of children, equal before the law, regardless of their filiation. In this case, it has been the courts, as previously pointed out, that have been before the legislator since the judgement of 6 October 2020 of the TSJ of the Basque Country, the Chamber of Social Affairs, in which the right of a single-parent mother to enjoy the extended permit, which would have corresponded to the two parents if they were to have them, has been recognized for the first time for the minor children who gave rise to the request. But it is necessary not to force our judges to act as legislators. We therefore anticipate that this parliamentary group, of course, will support the adoption of the bill that has been registered by the People's Parliamentary Group. However, limiting the protection of single-parent families to this extension of maternity or paternity leave by childbirth or adoption is clearly insufficient. That is why we also announce that we will proceed with the improvement and refinement of the text during the process of amendments. As mentioned above, there are almost 2 million single-parent families, eight out of ten headed by mothers, by women. This objective fact should not, however, lead us to fall into the terminological ignorance, which is usual on the left, which proposes the replacement of the term single-parent family by single-parent family or grandparent family when the adult in charge of the minor children is the mother. And this is because this terminological error comes from considering that single parent has its origin as a father, when the parent does come from a relative, which, of course, can include a father or a mother. [[Applauds]] This terminological ignorance, of which the representative of Podemos has again demonstrated today, to whom, by the way, we have seen tremendously revolutionary displaying their flags... Who was a member of the Government of Spain in order to divide and bring down the Government that has unilaterally changed Spain's position on Western Sahara! [[Applauds]] We also need to bear in mind that we must reject the discriminatory exclusion advocated by some groups when identifying single parents exclusively with single mothers and advocating exclusive protection from single mothers, because it is clear that a single mother living with her partner, with whom she has children in common, is not a single parent. In fact, if this confusion and equality were allowed, it would turn out that of the nearly 2 million single-parent families that we had in Spain in 2020, the largest group would be excluded, which are the widows, 724,100 single-parent families in which, because of the marital status of the parent, they are widows. We will improve the text they have submitted by means of amendments, because it is clear that single-parent families, according to statistical data, are in a situation of greater vulnerability and more difficult access to reconciliation of work and family life. It is also clear that limiting the rule to extend the permit to twenty-six weeks leads the father or mother who enjoys it to a situation of possible and actual exclusion from employability, because not all companies can take charge of a leave for twenty-six weeks of the same person. The most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that this initiative, again, does not represent a decisive commitment to the protection of families. The objective is that in Spain we allocate only 1.3% of GDP to the social protection of families and children. The family is the absolute basis of society prior to the State. Strong families make strong societies; without families there will be no nation, there will be no Spain. And the solution to this demographic desert that you, all of you, have imposed on Spain is not illegal immigration, which leads to a population replacement and the disappearance of the nation, but the protection of the family and the promotion of birth, because 47 million Moroccans in Spain do not make Spain, do Morocco. The reality is that today, in Spain, it is a real rebellion to defend the family, because its policies contract to a criminalization of one of the two members that are essential for the youngest children, especially the father. 'I don't want to be like my dad when I'm older.' This poster could pass through one of you in an institutional campaign on the day of the so-called "gender violence", but the reality is that it is a poster of the People's Party and Citizens' Party exhibited in the city of Córdoba in November 2020. [[shows it.]] [[Display the sign]] Faced with this, VOX puts the family as a fundamental axis. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u30	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, what a mess yours! The party of social cuts, the party of pacts against women in Castile and León, the party of hypocrisy with families talking today about conciliation after what we have heard these days. I'm going to give you some dates: 2007, paternity permits are created, it's done by a socialist president; 2019, birth permits are increased and equated between parents, it's done by a socialist president; 2022 - this is what the People's Party proposes to us through its major spokesman and its new opposition president to VOX - eliminate the 20 billion allocated by this government to family policies. The People's Party wants to eliminate the birth and child care benefit, wants to eliminate 8.5 billion already budgeted. The People's Party, when it talks about ending this 20 billion, proposes to save children with cancer and serious diseases, eliminating the 474 million already budgeted for their care. [[Applauds]] The People's Party, when it talks about ending that 20 billion, aims to fulmine the employment bonuses that help to reconcile and that are already budgeted at 3.8 billion. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what are you going to pay for the enlargement you are proposing? They know that they lie, they know that their behavior is always miserable with families. Let's talk about single-parent families today, of course. In its proposal, the People's Party does not even define the concept of a single-parent family, so from the outset, this proposal is already based on the impossibility of accrediting its status and access to aids and rights per child. The Socialists do recognize the single-parent family, families usually headed by women - 81% - so it is no wonder that Mrs Olona is a single-mother family. By the way, 91% of these families are headed by Spanish women. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is no single institutional definition applicable throughout the territory of the State to this family reality. Look, one in two single-parent households is at risk of poverty and exclusion, 48 % cannot meet the costs of a disease and 7 % cannot incorporate proteins into their daily diet. In the light of this data, the first question is whether we are, as legislators, with this enlargement being the main problem facing these families. Look, the European network for combating poverty pointed out that its main problem was of an employment nature of 84%; the second was the economic one of 71%, and the third related to housing. And do you know what the People's Party is doing to protect these demands from single-parent families? For, above all, tell those women who suffer from very long-term unemployment, precarious or part-time contracts, that it is best to vote than to a job reform that would make their contracts indefinite and stable. [[Applauds]] The People's Party is telling those mothers who do not have support for conciliation, those families who are forced to leave their children in day care or to take care of others before the families where there are two parents, that the People's Party intends to eliminate the 65,000 free places from 0 to 3 that this Government is going to set in motion. Nor does the People's Party like the 100-euro monthly child support that this government has launched. Of course, she doesn't like it, but this is the reality that really needs to be tackled, because women who lead single-parent families are the only supporters, which implies an important risk of poverty. They are the only caregivers, which also means dealing with the education and care of dependent minors alone, which would also require them to have good working conditions in working hours, shifts, breaks; in short, the availability of free time to guarantee that best interest of the minor who must govern any decision we make. But this reality, obviously, does not see it from the carpeted offices of the People's Party, because, ladies and gentlemen, not all the poor ask for alms at the door of the church. In poverty it's also bad to eat, live out of the past month and not be able to put the heat on. Remember that the People's Party left our country, when it left the government ravaged by corruption, with 47% child poverty in single-parent families, only behind Romania and Bulgaria. But, of course, you didn't see it, so I think the first thing you had to do today is apologize to Caritas for putting you in doubt and to apologize to so many families that, yes, in Madrid there are also difficulties. [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen, what I am trying to highlight is the complexity of a family nucleus other than the family headed by two adults, which puts us before questions in order to be able to fully meet their requirements, that of minors, from the analysis of their strategies as a family; and I say integral, not a new peck or a new patch that will sink these families back into the well of oblivion. Because you, as always, late, bad and never. Today, this Government is working to transpose Directive 2019/1158 on the reconciliation of family and professional life. Today, this government is already negotiating with trade unions for the new Civil Service Act, which aims to include measures on these permits this year. Today, this Government is now finalizing the new Family Diversity Act, a broader regulatory framework that comprehensively covers all issues demanded by families and, in particular, by single-parent families. By the way, a law that has more ambitious proposals regarding the duration of the permit than you bring here and that affects the governance of the basic needs of this cohabitation core; a government, moreover, is also sensitive to the case law that, for lack of fairness, is occurring throughout this country. So, ladies and gentlemen, the loneliness, the uncertainty, the penalization that they suffer at work, the impossibility of conciliating, the anguish of not having covered my son or daughter... Breeding is hard being two. How much more we have to be by the side of those who are just one! That's what we really have an obligation to attend to, that's what we really have to attend to today. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AMENDING ARTICLE 80 OF ORGANICAL LAW 1/1979 OF 26 SEPTEMBER, GENERAL PENITENTIAL, TO RECOGNIZE THE CHARACTER OF AGENTS OF THE AUTHORITY TO THE OFFICERS OF PENITENTIAL INSTITUTIONS [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 122/000075]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u32	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, amending article 80 of the Organic Law, 1/1979, of 26 September, General Penitentiary, in order to recognize, for legal purposes, the status of agents of authority to officials of Prison Institutions, Organic. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u33	Thank you very much, President. I want my first words to move recognition to the day-to-day work of prison officials in all the prisons in our country. [[Applauds]] A work that takes place in a closed, intramural environment, an environment far from the vision of society, of the Spanish and Spanish as a whole, and perhaps that's why it's a little known, little known and without the social recognition it deserves. However, thanks to prison officials one of our constitutional principles is founded: that of the social reintegration of persons deprived of their liberty. Throughout the democratic history of our country, the involvement of prison officials, always aimed at that guiding principle of reintegration and in accordance with the successive social changes that have taken place in our country during these more than four decades, has led to progress in social re-education measures, in initiatives to improve public services provided in prisons such as health or education, to extend the rights of both inmates and workers themselves or to promote the necessary changes to improve their working conditions. Also, the commitment of prison workers has generated important advances in the security of all Spanish and Spanish, collaborating in the fight against terrorism or in the lowering of crime rates. For all this, I would like to thank the presence today in the gallery of guests of the representatives of the unions representing prison institutions: ACAIP UGT, CSIF, Workers' Commissions and CIGA. Thank you so much for your work. [[Applauds]] And yes, I say this because at the head of the main demands of the prison sphere have been and are the unions. I say this because, in the face of the negationist discourse against trade unions, today I want to claim your work. I want to claim the role that trade unions and social dialogue have in building the history of the last 40 years in Spain, because thanks to the agreement, thanks to the dialogue is how the country is built. This proposal for a law arises from that dialogue, agreement and dialogue in order to promote a necessary change in the prison institution. It was hours of conversation and work sharing, discriminating and sometimes also discussing and, why not say so, varying the positions of my parliamentary group to bring the demands of female prison workers closer together. But this is what politics consists of: consensus to move forward in agreements that benefit all men and women who make up a collective. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing to the debate a text that is the result of the dialogue. Let me make a small reference today to all those who participated in this process and who are no longer with us today. I have as a good example my countryman Valentín Ortiz, official of the Topas Prison Center. All of them have left us an indelible sign of commitment and also their memory. [[Applauds]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, I know that, in the face of an initiative related to the Ministry of the Interior, it will be difficult for some and some of you not to hyperventilate in the gallery and set up your usual theatre. I know that even more difficult for some today and some will be to maintain positions close to that which is the sense of state. Perhaps today the challenge for all of us is to get public opinion to be moved into a debate without distortion, without noise, focusing on the policy that is useful for a group that needs it and has been demanding it for a long time: that of prison officials. Today we can take an important step to improve your situation. Of course we know it's not the final step! But we can say it's a step in the right direction. The content of the proposal for a law, with the proposals included in it, is partly the necessary response to the just demands that public workers in penal institutions, collecting and regulating situations that, although already resolved in practice by administrative decisions or covered by good practice, lack adequate legal support. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, as a general note and as I believe we all know in this House, prison law is the first organic law that was passed by the democratic courts. It is a law that responds to a specific social context and to a very specific situation, that of the prison institution and its workers more than forty years ago. But today neither the context nor the prison reality are the same as more than forty years ago, so we are obliged to respond to the demands made at the present time by the workers to update their regulatory framework. These are three points on which this proposal sets out a step forward on the legal framework governing prison staff. Firstly, to provide prison officials with protection as agents of the authority; secondly, to introduce the principle of compensation, which will provide a further guarantee of protection in the event of assault on an official; and thirdly, to increase the safety of prison staff in the event of detention, transfer or imprisonment. These three issues, ladies and gentlemen, included in the normative status of organic law will largely avoid the drafting of different judgments and interpretations, which at present constitute legal uncertainty for workers in the performance of their duties. In addition, they will mean greater equality between the workers themselves of the Ministry of the Interior, since the members of the State security forces and bodies have already resolved these matters because they have specific regulations that allow judicial decisions to be taken within a clear and concrete legal framework. The regulation of prison staff is laid down in Title VI of the General Prison Act and also in the Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015 of 30 October, approving the consolidated text of the Basic Staff Regulations Act. It should also be borne in mind that the current structure of prison bodies is regulated by Law 39/1970 of 22 December on the Restructuring of Prison Bodies, which does not respond to the changes caused by the various specialized functions carried out by the Prison Administration today. For this reason, I cannot ignore today the need to generate a new law of bodies that is a reference to the future of the institution and that is based on sound and constitutional legal principles and not on interested, party or partisan normative interpretations, as well as containing objective and reasonable budgets. Today, in my parliamentary group, we are reaching out to dialogue with trade union representatives and calling on the Government to be sensitive to this just demand. With regard to the status of officer of authority, we are aware that article 550 et seq. of the current Criminal Code already provides for and protects prison officials from assaults with the same penalty as those recognized as agents of authority. We also know that this argument has been defended by different parliamentary groups in debates similar to today's, but in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we argue that its explicit recognition in a specific rule, as we are proposing today, is appropriate to ensure the protection that their status gives them against the aggressions that may be the subject of. Similarly, we believe that it is necessary to give their statements reports of evidentiary relevance so that they can be considered sufficient to adopt the appropriate resolution, except evidence against it, in disciplinary proceedings. With regard to the need to ensure the separation of the remaining detainees, in the event of detention, from prison officers, in the event of their entry into prison and in the case of transfers in custody, separation from other prisoners should be carried out in order to safeguard their physical integrity, no more or less than the rest of the employees of the Ministry of the Interior. And it is also to improve the protection of prison officials and to equal their status to that of other collectives under the Ministry of the Interior, so our proposal reflects the principle of reparation, which already finds its recognition and foundation in the Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, and that collectives - I insist - of the Ministry of the Interior already have it. Finally, and in relation to another point contained in our proposal for a law, if all the above is important, it is no less important that the provision of personal and material resources that has been carried out in the last two years, with increases in staffing that the general budgets of the State have contemplated, with a replenishment of 110 % and 120 % respectively - a historical increase in the allocation of places - so necessary to cover the vacancies existing in prisons. Ladies and gentlemen, as I explained at the beginning of my speech, we know that we must take more steps to achieve recognition of the Prison Staff, from internal surveillance staff to health personnel, technicians, lawyers, psychologists and all the people who make up the collective. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is not going to stop its efforts to defend initiatives that meet the demands of the collective of prison workers, specific demands adjusted to reality and legality. We will debate and discuss, sometimes from remote positions, but always from loyalty and respect for the independence of legitimate representatives of prison officials. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are ready to take an important step forward. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are ready to give important impetus and support to prison officials. Let's not fail them. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again, there comes to the General Courts the debate on the umpteenth initiative for prison officials to be recognized as agents of authority. It is now being promoted at the request of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that is, one of those who with his negative votes rejected in this very XIV Legislature the processing of previous proposals with a similar objective made by other parliamentary groups, both here and in the Senate. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as on previous occasions, and in view of the urgent need to provide protection to our prison officials, who have been ill-treated by the prison administration and also physically ill-treated as a consequence of the terrible working conditions in which they work, I shall vote in favour of taking this law into consideration, for which he called for an agile and in accordance with the emergency in the Spanish prisons, in the case of the prison in Asturias, where attacks on workers are very frequent and reveal the same ills that afflict many of our prison institutions: insecurity, insufficient human resources with multiple unmet vacancies and a high average age of the staff, which, moreover, are poorly remunerated. [[The Lord]] By the way, Mr Cerrada, the recognition, in addition to in the rostrum and with your applause, is also applied through the Official State Bulletin via the Council of Ministers. He concluded by stressing the warning that, once the initiative we discussed was approved this afternoon, it would not end up in one of the multiple palaces of the Carrera de San Jerónimo, it would not be that we would encounter the well-known plot of parliamentary filibusterism to extend the process of a matter and that it would fall with the dissolution of the Chambers, a repeated maneuver that accentuates the discredit of politics. In the face of such a risk, I encourage prison officials to persevere in pursuit of their well-known claims. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u36	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u37	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. A year ago, in a bill by the People's Parliamentary Group, we denounced the situation of prison officials in Spain. So, we said that that approach was not the most appropriate as it came, because the solution was to amend the General Prison Law, which is what we have here today; therefore, we are going to vote in favour. And it is never wrong to remember that the situation in which these officials work has a component of danger that no other officials have, since they are characterized by dealing with people who do not respect the law, fundamentally. Our Secretary General, Miguel Ángel Revilla, the president of Cantabria, has been one of the main drivers of the most active politicians in denouncing this situation. And there was more, but the main claim was to empower prison officials. It's been a while, but it's come here. It is also correct to include the coverage of property liability for damage caused to staff members when there is no misdemeanour or recklessness, because surprisingly this was not guaranteed and it was necessary to plead for the administration to ultimately be condemned as a subsidiary civil officer. Much more remains to be done, but they are in the hands of the Government - there is no need for legislation here - such as the provision of places, the lack of material means and the comparative aggravation that exists with other collectives, especially at the levels of the complement of destination, because they only think that the directors of a prison, at best, reach the level 26, which is that they have other bodies for direct entry into the Administration, even some already enter level 28 no longer have an administrative career; what less than a level 29 for many of the prisons we have in Spain. I hope that the Government will take these issues into account. Of course, we, the PRC, are going to support any initiative in this direction and, of course, that of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u38	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u39	Thank you, President. Our first words today go to Yvan Colonna, the independent prisoner of Corsica dead, and also to the people of Corsica, in what seems like a state murder in every rule. The PSOE brings us today in the form of a proposal of law a historical conservative and right-wing claim of the unions of prison officials. Officials are required to have the status of officer of the authority because, if there are attacks, they have the principle of veracity in front of a judge and so that prisoners can be charged with the offence of assaulting the authority. Why do we say it's right? Firstly, because it runs counter to the fundamental approach of the 1979 law, which established that there must be civilian bodies in prisons, contrary to what happened in franchising. Secondly, it focuses on officials, who are armed, who have all the resources in prison and who are not subject to deprivation of liberty. Moreover, it does not question the deep problem of prisons. And what - they will ask - is the deep problem of prisons in the Kingdom of Spain? Firstly, that there are insufficient educational staff and resources for reintegration; secondly, that the majority of prisoners are men and are for crimes against property and public health. And the same crimes are the majority in women. Crimes are therefore related to poverty, inequality, economic needs and, to a certain extent, also to masculinity, and this is also not addressed by this reform. In addition, Spain has one of the highest prison populations in Europe and with the highest prison times, in addition to very high rates of mental health problems, which does not solve this initiative. And there are attacks on inmates, ladies and gentlemen, many, and there are serious situations against the integrity of people, such as isolation situations. We are not going to support this punitive reform of the prison system, which also reinforces the difficulties in reporting the ill-treatment of the prison population and which is not the root of most crimes, I repeat, inequality and poverty. If they want to end conflicts and with so many prisoners, they divide wealth. I'm sure the number of prisoners and their situation are down a lot. Flaco favor do the title 'government of progress' if they turn their backs on the restorative approach and make the authoritarian fantasies of the right come true. With authoritarianism it does not reintegrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u40	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u41	Sweep on, good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we, in Euskal Herria Bildu, believe that this proposal, whether presented within the Organic Law on Citizens' Security, whether it comes through a bill to this House, is wrong; we stand in the same position as we had. It is true, it is an objective fact, that the conflict within prisons has increased over the years; we are reading more and more news of attacks on prison officials. Similarly, as Mrs Vehi pointed out, allegations of abuse, including torture, in prisons continue to increase, a fact that should be of concern to us. However, do you believe that this proposal to consider prison officials as agents of authority will reduce this problem? You know that no, that the problem is fundamental, that it is there and as long as it does not go to the root of the matter this will not be solved. We have had the opportunity to speak with officials, directors and directors of prisons, and also with experts in the field, and all in general, on the basis of different diagnoses, share various elements that point to the current problem of increasing conflict in prisons. One of them pointed out that it is the overpopulation, the massification of some modules or some prisons. Similarly, we were told that there is a total lack of treatment activities. And a third point, which is quite repeated, is the one that has to do with prison health. There is a total lack of both professionals and the media, especially in all matters relating to mental health, with psychiatrists in prisons, and one consequence of this is drug poisoning, which is giving rise to considerable problems in prisons due, above all, to their administration. Similarly, there was a lack of staffing; we are seeing a lack of security officials and also a continuing precariousness in their work. If we add to this - as has happened in the rest of the citizenry - the problems arising from the pandemic, in prisons with double isolation and lack of contact, this has resulted in increased conflict. Will it be resolved that prison officials are declared agents of the authority? We've already said we don't think so. Moreover, we see more problems than advantages in this proposal. Today, the directors and directors of the prisons are already agents of the authority, as are the officials under their mandate. And with regard to aggressions, if we take into account article 550 of the Criminal Code, these people are already passive subjects to aggressions, I think it is something well known by the inmates and the interns, and there are numerous sentences relating to this matter. In view of the diagnosis of the problem of conflictivity in prisons, measures, especially economic ones, should be taken to help solve these deficiencies in matters, whether of treatment, whether of transfer to the autonomous communities of prison health or of all those measures that can deal with such conflictivity with non-punitive elements or instruments. But neither do we suck our fingers, we know that there can still be aggressions and that it is therefore necessary to improve protocols in the face of possible aggressions. Where do we see the problem? The spokesman Vehi pointed that out. We see that it is not taken into account that increasing this presumption of veracity in institutions such as prisons, where prisoners are already in a situation of special subjection that determines certain limitations of rights, especially within certain specific disciplinary regimes, would be an exorbitant prerogative for officials. We believe that it is wrong and, in the face of it, it will certainly also increase as may be the crimes not only of attacks on authority, but also of resistance or disobedience to the agents. Is this going to help fight conflict, violence within prisons? Man, if we take into account that this would be equated with police officers and that the attacks on authority on the street are not exactly coming down, that this does not have a coercive level to help bring down those crimes, because we have serious doubts. Finally, and no less important, I believe that in 1979 the General Prison Act dealt precisely with this, the construction of a civilian corps of officials to deal with prisons, just the opposite of what had happened during the dictatorial regime. And Mr. Closed said that with this you take a step forward. No, no, take a step back, forty years ago, Mr. Serrada. We, I'm telling you, don't see the advantage, but it's that they're also going into the past. By the way, I believe that, in addressing this situation, it is also time that, as in the vast majority of European Union States, prison institutions would become dependent on the Ministry of Justice and not on the Ministry of the Interior, as happened to Mr Aznar. That is, we don't see any advantage and we also see several stickers in your proposal. That is why we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u42	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u43	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing an initiative to amend article 80 of the General Prison Act in order to address, as has already been said, some of the complaints that prison officials have been making for some time as a guarantee of employment, both in their monitoring and custody of inmates guaranteeing order and the internal regime, as well as in re-education and social reintegration, which is known as individualized treatment and therapeutic activity and health care. It is not, however, in our view, the changes proposed in Article 80, which alone must lead to a decrease in the conflictivity in prisons, which, being relevant, often does not sympathize with the reality that is being moved. Conflictivity seems to be more closely related to other factors, such as the living conditions and habitability of prisons, the size of centres and staff, treatment possibilities, the implementation of restorative justice programmes and other elements, such as protocols for prevention and action against aggression, and even the treatment of the most serious mental health problem, among others, within prisons. But, ladies and gentlemen, returning to the initiative we are debating, I would like to say that the Basque Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party will vote in favour of its consideration, as we have done on other occasions when this article 80 of the General Penitentiary Law has been debated, although we consider that, for the purposes of the Penal Code, public servants of penitentiary institutions are already part of the passive subjective sphere, both of the criminal type of attack in their capacity as officials and of those of resistance or serious disobedience in their capacity as agents of the director of the prison, who is the authority for their ability to command and sanction, acting on their orders, to enforce their provisions, as provided for in article 45 of the General Organic Prison Act and articles 64 et seq. of the Prison Rules. We therefore believe that the formal recognition of official will not de facto change their situation with regard to better criminal protection in the face of the impairment of their functions. With regard to the prerogative to identify their status through the professional registration number in administrative and judicial proceedings, I recall that this will not be possible when they appear as defendants, as provided for in the Criminal Prosecution Act. And with regard to the presumption iuris tantum in relation to the facts presented for the purposes of disciplinary sanctioning decisions - unless there is evidence to the contrary and without prejudice to the fact that officials must bring to the file all the evidence - it must be borne in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that these reports do not overshadow the constitutional presumption of innocence nor do they enjoy an absolute preference for proof of the truth of the facts that make the formation of the conviction of the sanctioning authority - whether administrative or judicial - unnecessary, so that the lack of credibility of a complaint for reasons that may not support a sanction, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly held. In any case, we must not forget the principle of authority, which is indispensable for the proper functioning of prisons, also on the basis of the confidence in the neutrality of officials in the drafting of their reports on the events they have witnessed and that the prison system is a guarantee system on which multiple controls are established, such as complaints and appeals to the central bodies of the prison administration, to the Prison Surveillance Courts, to the Prison Inspectorate; ultimately, appeals to criminal jurisdiction and a long et cetera. Another measure included in the initiative is the reparation of damage caused by third parties to prison officials in the performance of their duties, provided that they do not mislead, neglect or impermissibility. It does not seem, however, that this measure should be based, as stated in the first final provision, on the basic legislation on the system of financial responsibility of the Administration, contradicting what is argued in the explanatory statement, which refers to the principle of indemnity for service provided for precisely in articles 14 and 28 of the EBEP and not to damage caused by the normal or abnormal functioning of the Public Administration, adding that the indemnity provided, although it takes as an example that of the security forces and bodies in similar situations, for example, the National Police Act, the Organic Law 9/2015, has a greater protective scope, since for these forces and bodies does not, as is the case with the proposal, reach personal harm beyond materials. Finally - and I am finishing - as far as the separation of prison officials from detainees or prisoners is concerned, it is something that has already been done. Finished. We will support the initiative. It contains the legal protection of prison officials in the three relevant institutional areas and through common bases which we share, relating to the formal consideration of officials of the authority, the preservation of their anonymity, the presumption iuris tantum of the facts they witness, the separation of other prisoners and detainees and the compensation by the Administration of damages suffered on the occasion of service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u44	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u45	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to welcome from here, from the rostrum, the representatives of the workers, of the trade unions, which Mr Serrada mentioned earlier, but also those who he did not mention, also those of Your Abandonment Me Can Kill, who have done so much to improve and finally bring and approve this initiative in this Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] Mr. Serrada, what a piece of paper you've touched today. What a piece of paper, Mr. Serrada! We all agree, the large part of this House agrees with this initiative, it is you who have never agreed with this initiative, you and some of your partners, as we have just seen now with the CUP Members or the Bildu Members. We are very clear that we had to approve this and, unlike you, that you have done nothing but always oppose this initiative, we have brought it, we have introduced it; you will know why. In any case, we welcome the fact that you have rectified, we congratulate you, and not for us, not for the pride of a party for bringing this initiative in so many times not being approved, but for the real protagonists of this initiative, which is the prison officials. For all of them we are glad that this initiative will finally see the light. Now, it has taken you four years of government to bring this initiative here. The prison institution, ladies and gentlemen, has a lot of problems - some have been mentioned here but others have not - and it has problems with an ageing civil service and, indeed, you are not the only ones responsible for this, as was the previous government of the People's Party. There is a lack of training, a lack of resources, general dismotivation of officials. Your Honor, it is that some of the representatives who are sitting here have been locked up in the general direction recently, and you, your Government, expelled them from there with the state security forces and bodies, expelled them when they were locked up in the General Directorate of Prison Institutions, the same ones who are sitting here today defending precisely all these shortcomings that exist within the prison institution. [[applause]] Prison health, ladies and gentlemen, is in the ICU, and you know it, but it seems that you do nothing to resolve this matter; you do nothing to transfer these powers to public health, to the autonomous communities. The general abandonment of the penitentiary institution is what makes more and more the institutional stigma of that institution. Two are, in our view, the main culprits of this institutional displeasure: Mr Marlaska and Mr Ortiz, the Minister of the Interior and the Director General of Prison Institutions, because both have been carrying the little prestige left to the prison institution with the rapprochement and progression of degree of many prisoners in an absolutely politicized way, even against the reports of the treatment boards. Because, moreover, they have accused their own prison officials without evidence and by means of bulls, as happened at the Villena prison. By the way, it has taken months to rectify; it has taken months for the Minister and the Director-General to rectify the sanctions against the officials of the Villena prison. Because, in addition, you have approved instructions that violate the presumption of innocence of officials in the face of complaints from inmates. This is extremely serious, Mr Cerrada, and it is your Government that has done it and allowed it; your Government that has allowed it and has been allowing it for four years. And finally, after these four years of rule, you come to this recognition, which we believe is more than just; a recognition, as I say, that you have been brought to this House on many occasions even though you have done nothing. Moreover, it must have been the prison officials themselves who will create a legal text for a statute of their own that the VOX Group brought here, and that you voted against as well, which collected many of these points. Mr Ortiz has even denied in appearances, not in the Chamber but in this Congress of Deputies, in committees, the need for prison officials to act as agents of authority; the Director-General of prisons himself, ladies and gentlemen, the Director-General of prisons himself. This is something incredible anywhere but Spain and with a government like yours. We are happy with this rectification. Now, during these four years that it has taken you to rectify - only you because the rest of us were very much in agreement - how many aggressions could have been avoided? How many indemnities could prison officials have been charged for such assaults, Mr. Cerrada? How many? How many attacks could have been avoided if you had rectified in time, if you had actually sat down and talked about this with the other political forces that we had been very clear about for a very long time? Ladies and gentlemen, you told us the last time a similar initiative was introduced that would bring about an amendment to the General Prison Law. What you have brought with the amendment to Rule 80 seems good to us and of course we will vote for it, but we believe that the problems that the prison institution has go much further. You promised a reform of the General Penitentiary Law and have taken off with an amendment to section 80. We really expected a lot more from you, much more, but we, the civil servants' collective also expected a lot more. You will be able to say now that what ends well is good. You will think that, but I believe you are mistaken, Mr Cerrada; you are deceived, Mr Ortiz is deceived and Mr Marlaska is deceived. If you do not respond to all the problems that I have mentioned to you that the prison institution has, you will not really get that prison officials can do a very complicated, very difficult job, with all the guarantee, with all the certainty and with all the recognition that I believe the Spanish State owes to those officials who are left behind in the most difficult, in what nobody wants, which is dealing precisely with the inmates. Stop Mr Ortiz; tell Mr Marlaska to stop Mr Ortiz, because Mr Ortiz is the greatest danger in the prison institution and a real danger to all prison officials. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u46	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u47	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, it's been a show afternoon and contradictions for what we've been doing for now, because we've seen how the PP presented an initiative and the PSOE recriminated it that on these issues they had the patent of course; we've seen how we can reconcile again with the culture of the banner; and now we see how the PSOE presents an initiative and everyone recriminate it that for so many years had voted against similar initiatives. With which, late in contradictions and spectacle. Perhaps we should definitely address what they say about urgency and importance. The urgent thing is to abandon this attitude of those who present something; and the important thing is to get to the bottom of the issues, analyze the initiatives and assess whether they are optimal or not. Going to the subject, it is clear that the issue of prison officials is not a grateful job, it is a hard job, a very unknown job, certainly, and a job - let me also suggest it - that the governments of Convergence and Union, in that of supporting self-government, assumed at the time, because even if it was not a grateful job this is also a way of empowering self-government and assuming competences that are sometimes not pleasant; but, in short, today, the legal regulation that prison officials have also, in our view, deserves a touch and fine surgery when it comes to shaping their status as public officials. Therefore, giving them this status of authority, with a measure that we believe is good because it is going to provide legal certainty, will provide support and coverage to reports, demonstrations or statements that they may make about events that have occurred; and, above all, because we believe that there is a no less important collateral solution, which is the question of the obligation of the public administration to compensate in cases where material or personal damage occurs in order not to leave the official at the mercy of the luck that he may have on the solvency of the person who has caused such material or personal damage to him. For our part, in the PeCAT we agree to take this step to give legal cover to this principle of compensation and to make it a reality to some extent and, also, how not, to reinforce those concepts of authority and order that have also been a hallmark of our political trajectory. For all this, we will vote in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u48	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u49	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The first thing I would like to note is that the claim of female officers and prison officers to be declared officers of the authority is a historic claim that must be heard. In the Catalan prison system, which has existed since 1984, it is also a historic demand. In Catalonia there are 13 prisons, 4 of them open, which cater to a prison population of 8,000, with a model of execution based on the principles of rehabilitation and reintegration, where the person who pursues and punishes the crime is not the one responsible for the execution of the sentence, and it is not the Interior, but the Council of Justice is the one who assumes the criminal execution, rehabilitation and non-remuneration. This system, Catalan, is a reference for focusing the criminal execution on rehabilitation and reintegration, which, we insist, obtains a social return found in the form of low recidivism, but which also requires a high investment, especially for the individualized treatment of prisoners and prisoners, and which seeks to minimize coercive intervention favoring the third degree and conditional release. This model rests largely on public servants, who have demonstrated their commitment during the management of the pandemic. For this reason, the Government of the Generalitat - Councillor Ciuro, who was a Member of this House - prioritizes training, stabilization and dialogue with prison officials and their trade union representatives. In this framework of dialogue, such important issues as the early retirement of prison officials - which will soon pass through the Government Council of the Generalitat - are being resolved, the renewal of working conditions and, of course, the demand for the status of agents of the authority, which is valued as a recognition of these officials, since, although it carries with it certain powers and presumptions that the jurisprudence has already recognized, it gives them greater legal certainty, exactly as do teachers of civil servants, rural agents, firefighters or public health medical personnel. This positioning is not new. The Justice Council has been working on this issue, at least, since the middle of the last decade. In particular, this same bill was positively evaluated in December 2020, before the change of government in the Generalitat. And in recent meetings the Councillor and the Secretary of Prison Measures, Sergi Blázquez, have put this issue on the table before the Government. However, we must make it clear that we will not accept that this reform affects neither the Catalan prison model nor the powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. In this regard, it is essential that the regime provided for in article 80 be compatible with the establishment of a special prison staff of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which ensures the necessary linkage of rights and duties and responsibility for abuses. In the legislative process, therefore, we must enter into the concrete drafting of the working conditions of the officials, the bodies and scales, the sanctioning and disciplinary regime and the selection and professional promotion. A solution must also be found to modulate the principle of indemnity and to resolve the economic consequences that the application of this principle entails for the Prison Administration of Catalonia. In short, we will vote in favour of the consideration, but it must be very clear that we set the limit in respect of the Catalan prison model and the powers in prison execution of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u50	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u51	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. I would like to begin by recognizing the great role played by public workers in the prison system. I would like to thank both the Spanish and, in particular, the Catalans for their great work. Public prison workers are a key part of the prison model's gear, but, as you know, Catalonia has a different prison model, which is a European reference. Why? On entry, the Catalan prison system depends on the Judicial Council, while in the State it depends on the Interior. That tells us a lot. Secondly, Catalonia has already had the skills transferred for more than thirty years, which has also allowed us to move forward in a model of our own. Thirdly, our model is focused on reintegration, through the processes of accompaniment to people from a social perspective, in order to build a more just, equal, equitable, safer and less victimized society. And fourthly, this Catalan model is also characterized by the fact that our inmates and interns are integrated into the Catalan public health network, a fact that has made great progress with regard to health care for persons deprived of their liberty and broad recognition at the national and international levels. But in order for our public prison workers to do a good job, they need material, personal and legal means to do so. Our model, the Catalan model, is leading in terms of the training and specialization of officials, because we consider them all to be part of the process, they are agents of change, even in the field of health, as I have already mentioned. It is clear that everything can be done better in this life, that is clear, but we must continue to make much better progress. As the previous colleague has also commented, we have a very old staff; more than 51% of prison officials are over 51 years old; and early retirement is a necessity in Catalonia, Catalonia Also, which this initiative does not recognise in any case. And I take the opportunity - already advanced by the colleague who has preceded me - to tell Constellera Ciuro to comply with what Constellera Capella also signed in her day and to give a solution to this early retirement of the officials of prisons of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Going into the background of the issue of this initiative - although with the short time available to us I will not be able to go too far - I would like to make some considerations. Firstly, all public workers can be identified with a professional identification number; we know that. They also have legal assistance from the Generalitat de Catalunya. The reports they make have a presumption of veracity. I would like to recall that they have a presumption of administrative veracity, which is not criminal, but that even the agents of the security forces and bodies have no presumption of criminal veracity. It's just that there's a lot of demagogy about it. They therefore already enjoy their reports on this presumption of veracity. But in addition, articles 550 and 551 of the Criminal Code already punish acts that offend public officials or officials. In particular, 551.4 is an aggravating factor when the incidents take place inside a prison. Having said that, we defend the political vision of criminal execution from the perspective of left-wing republicanism. The sensitivity and responsible management that must be done in this area requires progressive guidance and commitment to reintegration and rehabilitation, taking into account, of course, the characteristics that involve most of the circumstances of the people to whom they should be applied, such as socio-economic, health, gender, etc. It is evidence - and it is hard for us - that talking about prisons has always been a taboo subject in our society, because it stigmatizes and because it has a negative connotation. But, despite - and very much despite - that in Catalonia we have had political prisoners and prisoners in prisons has ceased to be. Citizenship has approached prisons and broken with that taboo. He has been more aware of the importance of the reintegration of inmates into society, because they have seen that isolation is not at all positive, that being deprived of liberty is already punishment in itself and that the important thing is that they can live in society and in community; give them that second chance. And here I have to acknowledge that public prison workers are essential in that process. The Socialist Group's initiative, as I have already made it, does not recognize any of these demands, nor does it recognize the shortcomings that this group also has, let alone the needs of our Catalan officials. We are aware that here nothing is going to change, absolutely nothing. The initiative will not go any further, nor will it give them an answer, which is a priority for us. That is why we are voting against. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u52	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first thing I want to do is to greet the trade union leaders of the representatives of the civil servants, the workers and the workers, and to transfer my group's recognition to the very important work they do. Today the Socialist Group brings us a proposal for a law that seems to us to be the first step in improving the socio-occupational conditions of workers, prison officials. We are going to vote in favour. As I say, it's a first step and it's important. You have to be humble, too. The important work of workers, prison officials, has been discussed here. We must also be humble and say that we have not always lived up to the circumstances with these workers for a long time long long forgotten. Here there have been absolute majority governments of the People's Party that could have done so. Mr Gutiérrez, of Citizens, who was Rajoy's preferred partner, or Mr Martínez Oblanca, who has been in Congress for many years and has also been a preferred partner - well, five, but a preferred partner of the People's Party - and has never been heard here to talk with so much impetus about the labor problems of prison officials. That is why I say that we must be humble and recognize that we have not always lived up to the circumstances. But, as I say, this is the first important step towards recognizing the role of the authority of prison officials. It represents a claim, as has been said here, legitimate, historic and just. It's a claim that comes today. It could have been done before. For example, the People's Party with its absolute majorities, although now its mouth is filled here demanding that it is the most important, that it is the first, but that it could have done so. But, of course, the People's Party did what it did with many other collectives: with police, with health care, with farmers; that is, it dedicated itself to the privatization of the public. Prison officials will be reminded that, by privatizing, privatizing even the security of the outsiders of the prisons, we are paying for it, and in that we will also have to work to put an end to it. [[Applauds]] That is why the United Nations Parliamentary Group We can support and we will vote in favour, as I said, of this bill and we welcome the opening of the door to that path to improve the socio-occupational conditions of workers and civil servants. The reality is that today prison officials, thanks also to their work and their efforts to claim, to go out on the street, to protest, as must be done in a rule of law, will see conquered that demand so important that it is the recognition of the character of agent of the authority. The People's Party could have done it; it had its chance, but it did not. What he did do is leave the staff cut, aged; workers with low salaries, lack of means, lack of judicial guarantees; lack of measures for inmates, of measures for reintegration into work. Those political measures were not pushed forward, but all this is beginning to reverse and we must take it seriously, and we are taking it seriously. Words are words and facts are facts, and this is a fact here today. Today, consideration will be given to a proposal to change the law, so that prison officials will have the status of agent of authority. That's a fact and the rest are words and postures; that I leave for others, because they know more. Nothing more and thank you very much. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u54	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u55	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know what a father, who is a prison officer, does before he goes to his job in prison to do his shift? He kisses his kids thinking he might be the last. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, how mediocre you have always been and continue to be with prison officials! They refuse in the Senate to consider our bill to have their own statute, and today they offer them, as if they were doing them a favor when it comes to justice, to be recognized as agents of authority. By the way, this was the first bill that the VOX Parliamentary Group registered in Congress in the XIII Legislature. [[Applauds]] And these officials - by the way, today I see some of them up there, in the guest gallery: what an honor your presence! - have always been so abandoned, so orphaned and neglected that today they conform to the fact that this proposal is a step towards obtaining their legitimate and just demands, to get out of the bars to which they have always been subjected; from the perpetual imprisonment of being released for dealing with such a hard job in which they have to endure sticks guarding detainees, prisoners and prisoners: hating the crime, but pitying the offender for achieving the re-education and social reintegration of these criminals. And all this without you complying with the General Prison Organic Law - article 80 of which you are amending today - because, in the face of ills, the lack of personnel does not allow the opening and coverage of all units and modules with the mandatory security and organizational measures and, therefore, they leave prison officials in the bad weather, when only one official, without means, has to take charge on many occasions of units or modules with hundreds of prisoners and when those officials, precisely, belong to the collective of the General Administration of the State that suffers the most aggressions. With a bit of luck, that father will return home alone with some wounds or with a scaly arm, after signing in the service book, to give relief, that there has been a new altercation with mutiny cone; that there has been aggression against him or some of his companions; that there has been an attempt to rape a female officer; that one intern has tried to commit suicide, but that there has been luck and they have managed to save him; that another has burned a mattress to make it burn, or that another intern has had to be transferred to the isolation module due to manifest aggressiveness. That is the day-to-day in any prison in Spain under leaders who carry a catastrophic prison management. You and - when you ruled - the People's Party have dedicated themselves to building macro prisons with all kinds of luxuries for inmates, while prison officials have no means, do not have enough staff, and therefore some of their macro prisons are 50% of their opening and do not have security. The Ministry of the Interior has normalized this so much that being a civil servant is very expensive. Hey, being a prison officer is paid with assaults. [[Applauds]] The Ministry of the Interior has normalized this situation so much that being an official already agonizes in prison institutions, because they cannot continue to hide for longer the ill-treatment they have been subjected to prison officials after decades; because they have been in the most absolute silence and exile. Humiliation of these professionals is usual, because you have not avoided it; on the contrary, you have motivated the prison officials to have been accused, discredited, intimidated, denigrated and denounced thanks, for example, to the order of internal service in which the presumption of veracity was given to the simple word of the prisoners who denounced torture, when the attacks within the Talagos - in prison jargon - are not the exception, but are the norm. Now yes, you have thought of throwing a half-cable at them in the rattaneries of your bad consciences, because explain to me if not why you do not want them to have a regime, as you have explicitly acknowledged. It is done by the teaching staff, the research staff, the health-care staff, the local authorities, the foreign service, however, the officials of the penitentiary institutions, no; they put their efforts and their dedication to the commendable work of custody and reintegration of inmates at the expense of their physical security. What do we call this? I'm telling you, discrimination. But, Socialists, the problem is not going to end with the amendment of Article 80 of the General Prison Organic Law they propose, no matter how much smoke they try to sell. To make them agents of authority is justice, but, of course, it is insufficient. Look, I'm not shutting things up, much less when in my veins there's the blood of a prison officer; when you've dedicated yourself to bringing terrorists closer to Basque prisons, to excusing them, to granting third degrees against the criteria and agreements of the treatment boards; when you've transferred to the Basque Country the powers in prison matters to finish fulfilling the objective agreed with the heirs of those assassins, who are your partners in this House, as a culmination of their betrayal of Spain and the victims of terrorism, and when they allow tributes to those assassins of ETA. [[applause]] For all this, perhaps I should treat you today, because your lack of respect for those who were killed, kidnapped, threatened or injured by the criminal gang ETA does not make you deserve to sit where you are nor, of course, the treatment of lords, neither you nor your government partners nor even the heirs of ETA, because you have shown no scruples nor piety nor honor and, of course, no loyalty to your homeland. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u56	Thank you, Your Honor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I want to greet everyone, and when I say everyone, Mr Cerrada, I mean all representatives of prison officials, CSIF, ACAIP, Workers' Commissions, the IGC, UGT and, of course, also those of Your Abandonment Can Kill Me. Today you were quite ill, Mr Cerrada, because everyone represents some officials, some more, some less, but we do not have to participate in that division. It is ugly to deny a very important part of officials, Mr. Cerrada, with whom you previously took pictures. [[Applauds]] Remember that when you were in the opposition you took pictures of yourself in black shirts, Mr. Closed, but, well, there everyone! Of the gentlemen of the CUP and Bildu I expected no less, the truth. You're talking about torture. Because of you and the heirs, who are you, of the ETA killers, in fact, this collective was silenced for many years, because possibly the vast majority of them could not even say that they were prison officials in order not to be the object of ETA terrorism. You do have a lot of debt to prison officials, gentlemen of Bildu. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to visit the prisons. I, since I've been a spokesman for the Interior, have already visited eleven prisons and seen the daily work that prison officials do, an unpayable job. I wouldn't be able to be a prison officer or almost any of those sitting here. It is an immense job that they do, judging life every day, with precarious, insufficient means; a job that, thanks to all the representatives of prison officials, I have been able to get to know first hand. That is why I am grateful to all of you who are here today, defending this initiative, as we would have to defend many others, but today, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the initiative you had to bring was the resignation of Mr Marlaska and Mr Ortiz for turning prison policy into a currency of change, for making prison policy a political instrument. [[applause]] The Government was not concerned about prison officials, was concerned and occupied by ETA prisoners; that was what prison policy devoted to. What is the current situation, ladies and gentlemen? Every 36 hours a prison officer is assaulted in Spain. And what does Marlaska do? It gives instructions that give prisoners more credibility than officials. They come to the government and the first thing Marlaska does is he is responsible for prison policy. And it is not to favor and support prison officials, but to be expected to make political payments to Bildu and bring five prisoners closer every Friday in exchange for five votes. That's why he wants to be in charge of prison institutions. They come to the Government and the next thing you know is to raise the salary. Ah!, but not to prison officials; they raise the salary to the Secretary General of Prison Institutions, 18,000 euros more a year, and then, not content with it, they create more posts and, instead of a sub-direction, they create two general addresses, and they each cost us more than 70,000 euros a year. Prison officials have not been given a euro for the four years they have been in government. It is such an obsession with prison policy that it bases itself on emptying prisons, prisons, and creating incentives for the release and progress of prisoners, including murderers such as Lardero's child. You should be ashamed, gentlemen, that your obsession is to empty the jails. You, gentlemen of PSOE and Podemos, have been four years now, your accountant is not at zero, and you have done nothing. The only thing they have done with prison officials has been gag them, open files, even send them the anti-disturbations when CSIF and ACAIP were locked up in prison institutions. That's what the People's Party didn't dare. You did dare with the anti-disturbations. They even invented plots, such as Villena's plot, to criminalize prison officials, yes, and to discredit an entire collective. No wage increase, no wage improvements or improvements in socio-occupational conditions for four years, nothing. And now there is the ignominy of the PSOE, which brings us this initiative. Ignorance is very bold, Mr. Delgado. Do you know that in April 2018, in this House, an initiative almost equal to that of the People's Party was approved? Yes, it was ours, and it was passed by a majority, yes. [[applause.-Mr. Delgado Ramos makes negative gestures]] And you know why it wasn't processed? Because parties like the Socialist Party did not appoint the rapporteurs, neither did you, and blocked the process because you did not want them to be agents of authority. Yes, in 2018, ladies and gentlemen, it was approved in this Congress by all the groups and you blocked its processing by not appointing speakers. But, look, it is such a commitment to prison officials that in this legislature we have resubmitted the bill to recognize them as agents of authority. We have even put forward a proposal for a law to recognize a statutory regime of its own to all prison officials that goes far beyond this patch that you want to make, which talks about career, mobility, promotions, working conditions, improving them, which goes far beyond. [[Mr. Delgado Ramos makes gestures with his hands]] Yeah, then we'll talk to you all I want. Mr. President, you're talking, but, well, I'm leaving you now... of all this we have to talk, yes, Mr. Antonio, we have to talk, and much more. [[Applauds]] We need to talk about improving wages, about matching with other bodies, such as Catalan, in fact; we need to talk about incapacity, over-retirement, early retirement. Why don't we talk about that, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos? Instead, they rejected this initiative. Then they said they reformed it in the Citizens' Security Act, and nothing. They lied one more time. We brought our bill and they said they didn't vote for it because they were going to bring in one of the prison institutions in the next month. Where's the law, Mr. Serrada? They are lying and disrespecting all prison officials. He's lying, like Mr. Marlaska is lying. They are now bringing us this bill, which, if the People's Party does not vote in favour today, is not approved. But I say more: we are going to vote in favour of it because we consider it necessary - albeit totally inadequate - and in a sign of commitment to prison workers. [[Applauds]] With them, not with you, because the state pacts with you in this legislature are nonexistent from the moment you are with Bildu, with whom you murdered and kidnapped prison officials. So, for you, no; we do it for prison officials. And I'll tell him we don't want him to end up like the Fire Department Act. Do you know, gentlemen, representatives of prison officials, that there was a proposal for a law on firemen two years ago? And you know how she is? Still waiting for processing, because it's blocked by the PSOE and Podemos. I'm afraid they're going to do the same thing with this prison thing again. But I tell you one thing: we amend it, and if we do not accept the amendments, which will be in the process of this statute that we propose, we will not finally vote on this draft. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u58	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u59	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the declaration as a place of democratic memory of the exodus of refugees known as La Desbandá and the violence suffered by the civilian population on the Malaga and Almeria roads. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr López Cano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u60	Thank you, President. Before starting this speech, I would like to extend a warm greeting to the Secretary of State for Democratic Memory, who is accompanying us here today, and also an express thanks to the representatives of the Association for Democratic Memory, who are accompanying us today, for all the work they have been doing for years to make the recognition of the victims of La Desbandá a matter for the whole of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] I will be allowed to begin with a brief account of this sad episode of history. It was February 7, 1937, Spanish civil war, the imminent takeover of the city of Malaga by Francoist troops. Faced with this fact, 150,000 people - which is said soon, 150,000 people -, driven by fear, undertook an improvised and sudden exodus to Almería only with what was put. They were basically children, women, older people who escaped the terror of war; innocent victims who never imagined that they would find the greatest possible terror. I want you to imagine a narrow road of the year 1937, cliffed towards the sea on the one hand, mountains on the other, a stream of people, 150,000 people fleeing from terror, and then, bombs from the air, bombs from ships, from the sea, started shooting at them. More than 5,000 people lost their lives there; thousands of families separated on that path during the exodus. Many arrived in Almeria and then went into exile; others, frightened at what they could see, decided to return to Malaga, and there, 4,000 of them were then shot. That episode would mark the lives of tens of thousands of Andalusian families forever. For forty years the Franco dictatorship imposed silence, but never managed to bend the memory of those who experienced that tragedy. Democracy came and the inertia of silence still remained, until the historians began to show us the light of the first testimonies, with the already aged voice of the victims of La Desbandá, also known as the Guide, in Malaga, or the Corría, in Granada. Despite all this, it is today an unknown episode by the vast majority of the population of our country, and that explains many things. This lack of knowledge explains, for example, that the city hall of the capital of Spain, Madrid, allows to have a street dedicated to the Balearic Cruise, which was the one that bombed those thousands of defenceless civilians. It is an absolute folly that the executioners of a massacre have a street and their victims have not yet been recognized. [[Applauds]] There are principles, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that better not pay the far right. I ask the People's Party from here, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also on behalf of thousands of Malagasy citizens, to remove the name of Crucero Baleares Street. [[Applauds]] Use this example to understand that oblivion is not an option, that a consolidated democracy, such as our democracy, can and must face truth and justice over the past. Exercise memory to fight against oblivion is a moral duty to the victims, their recognition, their reparation and their dignity. The knowledge of the past does not weaken our coexistence, but strengthens it face-to-face towards the future. A people who do not know their history is doomed to repeat it. It is our duty, therefore, to approve this initiative; but it is not only the law of democratic memory that does not triumph over oblivion, because both sides do not go side by side, but also the recognition of the victims who were never recognized. [[applause]] Surely today we can be more aware of what a mass exodus entails. We see it today on television, in Ukraine, and it causes us pain. That pain is joined by indignation when that exodus is bombed. How can there be so much evil, we wonder. But this is what happened here, in Andalusia, in the Civil War, in February of 37, when 150,000 people fleeing terror were bombed from the sea and from the air, causing barbarism. The question is not why we bring him to this House eighty-five years later; the question is why we have taken eighty-five years to do so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] But it's better late than never. We have a debt to the victims, which this week, let's hope, we'll start paying off. I'll make sure some group doesn't like it. The heirs of the principles of the National Movement get their chests swollen when talking about the past of Don Pelayo, but, listen, when it comes to talking about the past of the dictatorship and the civil war, then they get angry. What I think is that they don't want us to put a mirror where they have to be portrayed, what I think is that they want silence to continue to reign. [[applause]] Well, it's not gonna happen. Know that we won't allow it. We will put the voice to the forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that we are living in difficult times. The Government of our country and this parliamentary group are able to put in place all the necessary measures to alleviate the effects of the current crisis, as we have done over the past two years, but at the same time we are able to work for democratic memory, because it is a question of our country's collective dignity. [[Applauds]] I just hope that this time the PP is up to date. The corporal. We are confident in the House's majority vote that the Government of our country will declare a place of democratic memory La Desbandá de la ría Málaga-Almeria, for the truth, reparation and justice of the victims, so that this tragic episode will never be erased from history, because it is the best guarantee of their non-repetition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u62	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. Kiev, Leopolis - Lviv -, Jerson, Jarkov, Mariupol; surely, none or almost none of these cities sounded too much to us to any of the present, except those with great knowledge of geography. However, today they are very common in our memory, because we are aware of the horrors of war in the scars and in the territory of each of those cities. Eighty-five years ago, those cities in Ukraine that I have pointed out might well be called otherwise. They could be called Malaga, Alicante, Madrid, Badajoz or Basque soil cities, such as Abadiño, Durango and Gernika, because that is what happened also in the Spanish state and because what is present today, in the past was in this territory, and also, and in that passage of time, is being done elsewhere: in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Kosovo and elsewhere. I hope that sensitivity does not depend on the geographical distance so that it will increase depending on the fear that something or not will splash on us about what is happening in the rest of the world when atrocities occur in the form of war. But the memory of La Desbandá is not only a distant memory, it is also a memory that has to do with what is happening in Ukraine. We have all witnessed these days the fear that any humanitarian corridor that stood up would be sabotaged by the Russian Army or by any other. However, the first sabotaged humanitarian corridor - at least in the recent history recorded in the books - was precisely the humanitarian corridor that went from Malaga to Almeria, the humanitarian corridor in which they were forced - as has already been said - to travel hundreds of thousands of people in La Desbandá. Eighty-five years ago. There are thousands of people who need their lost dignity repaired by the bombing of Nazi and fascist forces. And I say so because it was the German Army and it was the Italian Army, it was the Italian Fascist Army and it was the German Nazi Army that contributed decisively to increasing the number of casualties and to generating that atrocity. And if we had done that before, as was said, we would probably have avoided debates that we in this House have experienced about the equality that some raised between Nazism and Fascism or Communism. Nazism and fascism bombed the people of La Desbandá; among the people of La Desbandá were people who said 'chamarada, subject me to my son', when I saw that they were going to kill him, because they were communists. But it is true that in that story, as in all dramas, there are heroes and villains. There are heroes who are probably anonymous, such as the Farero, who decided to use his lighthouse to prevent the number of deaths from being even higher because of the blood cravings that the German, Italian and Francoist armies could have. But there are also villains, there is a special villain, Mr Queipo de Llano, General Queipo de Llano, the head of the armies of the south Queipo de Llano, the same Queipo de Llano that continues in the Macarena of Seville, the same Queipo de Llano that in 2009 could not be exhumed from the Macarena because the votes of the People's Party, VOX and Citizens prevented it. Therefore, any debate that makes us jump with those reticences towards that reality as detestable as Queipo de Llano supposes, welcome be, but we believe that we must go beyond what this initiative says, and we welcome that it is understood as a first step. We believe that attention should be paid, for example, to the association La Desbandá, when it says that we must investigate the identity of the victims, the places of burial and the criminal responsibilities of the German, Italian and Spanish coup authorities. We believe, in short - and I have finished - that what happened in La Desbanda we can know by the living memory of the anti-fascist commitment of those who survived, of those who perjured that they would not forget what happened there and that they would transmit what happened there, but also with the contribution of people who were direct witnesses and wrote about it, like Norman Bethune, a Canadian doctor who was there. He said something to reflect the horror of La Desbandá but which also serves to reflect the current horror in the territory of Ukraine: 'Is it possible that a few rich, a small class of men, has persuaded a million more men to attack and try to destroy another million men as poor as they are with such luck that those rich become even richer?' [[Finish your euskera intervention]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u64	Thank you very much, President. La Desbandada - in Andalusia, La Desbandá - constituted - according to the story and the memory - the most bloody episode of the Civil War in Malaga and one of the most bloody of the whole war. It was an attack on civilians, women and children by the Francoist side after entering Malaga when they fled for fear of reprisals on the road to Almería, as it was the only corridor to the nearest territory under the control of the Republic. Feared reprisals that were not vain, and in Malaga, after its fall, the repression was the most brutal since the massacre of Badajoz; a population and territory where, in honor of the truth, acts of violence against opponents were committed previously because of political and social polarization. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now debating an initiative to preserve and maintain the collective memory of the tragedy on the Malaga-Almeria road in order to make known, as widely as possible, the truth of establishing justice, promoting the moral reparation of the victims and so that in the future it will not again fall into any form of political or totalitarian violence, because the memory of these painful events or of any other events is vital to our future not only as a restorative inquiry into the victims, but also as a collective duty to avoid repetitions. For this reason, the Basque Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party will vote in favour of this memorialist initiative under this dual imperative. I am voting for the fact that it does not relieve us of a critical consideration of the initiative as it claims to be supported and proposed in accordance with the Democratic Memory Bill, which is still a non-existent rule in our legal system and which, as all honourable Members know, is blocked in this House. This situation puts on the table or questions the role of the Administration as a vicarial power, only empowered to carry out what the legal order allows it, which is known as the principle of the positive link of the public administration to the legal order, which we might be able to save with a non-rigorist interpretation of that principle by not invading the action that is urged of the Government, an area under material reservation of law, and to be aimed at a general interest such as the memorialism of the grave and painful events of what is known as La Desbandá, which happened now eighty-five years ago on the Malaga-Almeria road. However, this interpretative effort, which he called non-rigorist of the principle of positive linkage, would have its full meaning if the memorialism, in relation to La Desbandá, was orphaned by institutional recognition, which is not the case, as is evident from the explanatory statement, since the Board of Andalusia, in accordance with Article 10.3.24 of the Statute of Autonomy and Decree 264/2011, which regulates the figure of the historical place of memory of Andalusia and its catalogue, by agreement of the Governing Council of 20 March 2012, declared the Malaga-Almeria road as a place of memory and its inclusion in the catalogue of places of memory of Andalusia. In short, ladies and gentlemen, and I am finalizing, we will support the initiative, even without seeing the obvious need to do so before the adoption of the Law on Democratic Memory by the General Courts, since the Malaga-Almeria road has been included in the catalogue of places of the historic memory of the Andalusian Junta, precisely because it was the place of one of the most dramatic episodes of the Civil War. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u66	Thank you, President. In February 1937 La Desbandada, La Desbandá began, which is how the people of my land were baptized at the flight of tens of thousands of children, women and the elderly on the rough road that joined Malaga with Almeria, today the N-340. They fled from the sure reprisals that were going to hit Malaga, known as the red one during the early days of the Civil War. The purges are never justified, but if there was a population that had nothing to do with whether Malaga was red, oazul white, they were the thousands of children fleeing to Almería. The more than two hundred kilometers separating Malaga from Almeria were covered on foot by families with poor quality shoes, without water, without food and with a sun of justice for the day and wet and cold nights that fall to the bones. The exodus of children, women and the elderly was inhuman and painful due to the climate and conditions of the journey. But we must add other factors that unleashed the hell of the innocent: from the sea, the ships Cervera and Balearics shot them; from the air, the Italian aircraft shot them and bombed them; from the ground, the troops dedicated themselves to shooting them. Norman Bethune, a Canadian doctor who had enlisted to help the Republic, presented himself with an ambulance accompanied by Thomas Worsley and Hazen Sise to carry out blood transfusions and evacuate the wounded. His testimony is hard, but it must be repeated here and appear in the Journal of Sessions of the Congress: It is difficult to decide who to take. Our vehicle was besieged by a mob of desperate mothers and fathers who, with their arms weary and stretched out towards us, delivered us to their children. The eyes and faces swollen and congested for four days of sun and thirst. Take this one; look at this child; this one is wounded. The children, with blood-stained rags around their arms and legs, children without shoes, with their feet so swollen that they had doubled their size, crying dismayed with pain, hunger and exhaustion. Two hundred kilometers of misery. Bethune's text is full of scenes like this. Testimonies tell us how they found a dead mother with her baby still feeding on her chest. Other little ones walked alone in the column because in the chaos they had lost their families. Children, elders and women killed throughout the journey, bombarded, gunned down and machine-gunned by land, sea and air. Five thousand dead bodies were left on the road. When the deceased survivors fell in the squares when they arrived in Almería, their cruel executioners gave them a last gift and bombed them again. This is now 85 years old. It was Spain in the 20th century, Spanish did this to Spanish. I would like to call for a reflection on all the parties in this House. We see how the Civil War fills the political debate today, but the approach is not correct, there are no ideological heritages, neither are some of them, nor are others of others, all of them were ours. We cannot trivialize the confrontation between brothers, we cannot play with thick terms in the confidence that these things will never happen again. There are many written memories that warn that these things never seem to happen until they happen. Ernst Jünger tells us the happiness with which German troops were leading in World War I in 1914, young Germans who were singing joyfully until the steel storms swept them away. ChavesNogales tells how the bus and mail service continued to operate in Paris in 1940 as the Nazis marched through the Champs-Elysées. Barbarity and tragedy replace normality without a solution of continuity, not frivolous with these matters. Spanish democracy is based on the blood of people like those of La Desbandá and hundreds of thousands who, like them, for an ideal or, simply, where the war caught them, lost their lives. It is a moral obligation of all of us, who today are responsible for the political climate that is sown in the streets, to scare, not repeat and respect the common past of the Spaniards. The torch passed from those who made the war to those who made the transition, from them to politicians of the 80s and 90s, and now we have it. It is our duty to react against anger, anger, intolerance and hatred. We must stop any appetite for self-destruction. Those who want to face Spaniards with Spaniards looking for a political outcome who wonder what ideology had a baby crying in their mother's arms. Lives extinguished by hate. Cadavers that have no grudge and send us a quiet and remote light like that of a star. The message of a Spain that begs its children: peace, mercy and forgiveness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u67	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems good to us and it seems necessary to us to declare the road from Malaga to Almeria on which the massacre by the Francoist army, known as La Desbandá, took place as a place of memory; it seems to us, as I say, not only well, but a question of justice. We cannot fail to point out how surprising it is for the Socialist Party to bring this proposal only a week after the Socialists voted against an initiative by nine political forces, including the BNG, to end impunity for the crimes of Francoism. Because here we are speaking clearly of a war crime, a crime against humanity absolutely abominable, the massacre, as experts consider, of between 3,000 and 5,000 fleeing civilians. [[Applauds]] You deserve more than symbolic reparation, you deserve justice; a justice that you, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, denied and denied for more than forty years. Note, even in May 2021 - from an initiative of the BNG of the month of March - the name of war criminal Salvador Moreno was removed from a school in Pontevedra that depends on the Ministry of Defense. Salvador Moreno, who from the cruise Canary Islands participated in the bombing of the refugees and was therefore one of the main responsible for this massacre. By the way, Salvador Moreno remains buried in the Pantheon of Illustrious Marines of the School of Petty Officers of the Navy of San Fernando de Cádiz. Therefore, this war criminal continues to be present in a public building that depends on the Spanish Government. I think this requires a little more coherence. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u69	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u70	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal to urge the Government to declare La Desbanda as a place of democratic memory and to include it in the state inventory of places of democratic memory for publicity, knowledge, identification, documentation, durability and signage. We are going to vote in favour of urging the government. Sure, I'd miss more! All the respect for the memory of La Desbandá, a crime - which has been explained, which has been highlighted, by the Members who have preceded me - horrible that took place between Malaga and Almeria. I must tell you, though, that we are fully aware that we are faced with the umpteenth face-washing of this government and, in particular, of the Socialist Party, which has already made hypocrisy its emblem. As the previous Member, Mr Néstor Rego, said, this presentation of the GNP takes place only a week after the Socialist Party votes against introducing the way in which those responsible for crimes against humanity are prosecuted in the Criminal Code. The truth is that we are surprised by this disparity in the lines of the Socialist Party, or perhaps we should not be so surprised. The Generalitat De Catalunya, through the Democratic Memorial and the Xarxa d'Espais de Memòria Democrática, groups the places that constitute the memorial heritage, tangible and intangible, representative of the struggle for democratic rights and freedoms, from the Second Republic to the Transition through the dictatorship. Precisely, the police station of Via Laietana, where dozens of tortures took place during the Franco dictatorship and during the transition, is part of this network, of this network. But we are again dealing with the issue that I was discussing earlier. Look at that. While, of course, part of the Socialist Party sees with good eyes that Via Laietana is considered a centre of reference for democratic memory, the number two of the Interior, Mr Rafael Pérez Ruiz, said recently - we do not know whether from ignorance, stupidity or the will to insult the tortured people - that the police station of Via Laietana is a symbol of public service I ask you, please, that in the matter of democratic memory the lords of the Socialist Party should be made clear at once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u71	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u72	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We in our parliamentary group welcome this initiative, as it cannot be otherwise, and we will also vote in favour. In fact, some of the issues are already reflected in this Democratic Memory Bill. We share with the Socialist Party the centrality of this non-law proposal, but we also have to say that it is very sad that thirty-seven years of socialist governments in my land, in Andalusia, with overwhelming absolute majorities, did not serve to signal how justice should be done with the victims of La Desbanda, which is a symbol of the most absolute cruelty with which Francoism acted, which, with the help of Nazi aviation and also - we have to say - with the Franco-warship the Balearic cruiser killed thousands of people, including many children and elderly people. Almeida - I have to say - has nothing else to do to recover for the street of Madrid, Baleares Cruise. Mr Almeida, yours - and from here I tell you - is a stabbing trap for Andalusians and Andalusians. And it hurts my soul to say this to the Socialist Party, but, it's the truth, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. We have to say that the Democratic Memory Act, also the stolen baby law, which we have discussed a great deal, which we have worked on amendments, which we have agreed on for quite a long time, and in which my group - I have to say - has put the best of its kind to honour the victims of Francoism and to defend the values of truth, justice, reparation and the guarantee of non-repetition. However, the projects are in the drawers of the Ministry of Presidency and Justice, not yet processed or approved. They are very important - we know - the gestures, the tributes and the approval of this kind of non-law propositions that also highlight issues that often do not know at the level of the rest of the country and that, as in this case, for many years only were known in Andalusia and were spoken in Andalusia, but, believe me, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that it is more important to be consistent and to bring, at once, to the Official Gazette of the State what we say here. My group, the socio-cultural association of La Desbandá or the associations of victims of Francoism or the associations of stolen babies what we would like is for the Democratic Memory Law to go further and the possibility of judging the crimes of Francoism to be recognized in the Penal Code, but the Socialist Party does not want it; and last week, without going further, it joined its votes with those of the PP, VOX or Citizens so that the criminals of La Desbandá and other sinister episodes of Francoism are not tried. We have already tried with forgiveness and it has not served to repair the victims; it is up to us to do justice at once. On the other hand, it is also inaccurate that there are no places of memory. They are officially catalogued and marked three, which are: The Canadian Walk; the mouth of the Guadalpheus, where this year, in addition, a new memorial has been added to the victims; and the Almeria prison. In addition to these proposed measures, there has always been a demand for the official census of victims and for the establishment of an interpretation centre for the historical event of La Desbandá, as well as for massive human rights violations, which constituted the central element of anti-fascist memory. Our group is always ready for dialogue, agreement and consensus in defence of human rights and clarification of the crimes of Francoism. Out of respect for the victims of Francoism, let me say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that we need public policy, concrete measures and already flee declarations of intent on democratic memory. I've said it so many times up here. We're late, very late, very late. We will vote in favour of this GNP, but please, Socialists, take the democratic memory seriously in all its manifestations because the ultra-right is won by confronting its policy and not voting the same as it. The best tribute we can pay to the victims of La Desbandá is to end impunity for the crimes of Francoism. So, let's do it soon, for the victims, for those who dedicated the best years of their lives to defending democracy, for freedom, for the future of our democracy and for the memory of Andalusia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u73	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u74	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In 1974, a year before Franco's death, Dolores Ibarruri, the Passionary, gave an interview to a French magazine. There he said the following: We have waited for 39 years, we may have to wait for some more, but I promise you that after our revenge will last 40 voices 40 years. This 40 times 40 reminds me of the thousand-year-old Reich thing, doesn't it? But what I want to say to you, gentlemen of the left, is that initiatives like the one you bring us today seem to give fulfillment to the Passionary's promise because they are not inspired by compassion, but by the desire for revenge, the need to rewrite Orwellian history and the pathological claim to win, at last, the Civil War after 83 years of its end. [[Applauds]] That's why we're going to vote against it. We will always vote against initiatives of historical hemipléjica memory that pay tribute only to the dead of one side while ignoring the other. In fact, the purpose of such initiatives is not to pay tribute to the dead, but to fix in the minds of all Spaniards an equation that says: Right Killer; Left Victim. [[Applauds]] By the way, the reconstruction of the facts they include in their GNP leaves much to be desired. I recommend reading the definitive work on the fall of Malaga and La Desbandá, which has been written by the Professor of Contemporary History of the University of Malaga, Antonio Nadal, who has devoted 30 years of his career to researching those facts. For example, why don't you tell us what happened in Malaga in the months preceding the capture of the city by Franco's troops, when Malaga was at the mercy of militias of the Popular Front who murdered 3406 people, according to the meticulous account of Angel David Martín Rubio, for the mere fact of being Catholic or right-wing? They did not burn any church because they had all been burned in May 1931. Well, eight thousand of those militiamen, eight thousand militiamen fled to Almería on the Malaga road as Franco's troops mixed with civilian populations approached. That's not what I'm saying or Nadal's saying. This is stated in the report containing the conclusions of the investigation conducted by the Government of the Republic itself after the fall of Malaga. The report speaks of deaths from hunger, deaths from exhaustion. Interestingly, there's no talk of bombing deaths. In other words, La Desbandá seems to have consisted, basically, of a great humanitarian catastrophe motivated by the logistical unprevision of the republican side. [[Applauds]] In fact, the apocalyptic version of La Desbandá as a deliberate massacre is based on the testimony of a single person, the communist doctor Norman Bethune - who has been evoked here several times - who was not on the road, he was in Almeria, that is, at the point of destination; by the way, he was expelled from the Red Cross years later for dishonest behavior towards the nurses. [[Laughter and applause]] But let us imagine that you were right and that, indeed, the Francoist side had committed war crimes against the refugees by bombing the road. We stand out from you in admitting the crimes on both sides. Why don't they make initiatives that embrace our sides, that include the victims of both sides? If they did, we would be willing to try to believe that they do so by seeking peace, piety, forgiveness, and not sectarianism. In this sense, I make a suggestion to you. Why do they not declare a place of democratic memory, in addition to the Malaga road, the ravine of Can Trinxet? There passed, in February 1939, another withdrawal, the definitive, after Franco took Barcelona, and a column of militiamen who guarded forty-two prisoners on the national side was stopped in this ravine on February 9, 1939. The French border was already very close, the war was already lost to the Republican side and they could have taken them to French territory and freed them there. But, no, the militiamen preferred to shoot the forty-two prisoners; among them were the bishop of Teruel, Anselmo Polanco, and the military commander of Teruel, Colonel Rey d'Harcourt. Any initiative that consists in using the dead almost ninety years ago, and only those on one side to turn them into the political weapon of the present, is nothing more than to sow hatred again among Spaniards, and they will never count on us to support this. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u75	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mateu Istúriz has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting us with a non-legislative proposal concerning one of the many tragic events that took place in the Spanish civil war. In the words of Julián Marías, the Spanish civil war was a gigantic historical horror, collective failure and shipwreck. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, what a pity; what a pity, indeed, how you use demagogically the parliamentary times you have at your disposal! Again, they strive to keep looking through that rear-view mirror of the horror of the Civil War. It can be seen that you did not have enough of that embrace of reconciliation and forgiveness that the Spaniards gave and that involved the transition of the Franco regime to the regime of the parliamentary monarchy of Don Juan Carlos I of Spain. In short, that agreement that was reached at that time seems to have not been enough for you and you are striving and again striving to reopen the bloody wound caused by the Spanish civil war. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civil War must remain behind us, without it being a hindrance that prevents us from living, and I quote Julián Marías again. One point, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to the more than 500,000 deaths in the Spanish civil war. With the events that are happening right now in Spain and in the world, we are talking about an event that happened eighty-five years ago, ladies and gentlemen, eighty-five years ago. Let us focus on what really interests the Spaniards right now and let us do, for example, to attend President Sánchez in this House to explain that political flair he has given with the policy on Western Sahara; let us sit with the transporters to fix the supply problem; let us also sit down to lower taxes on diesel and petrol. [[applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I insist that it is necessary to have heard here, in this Chamber, the importance of the Transition, which was transcendental to our future. It was a work of political craftsmanship characterized by renunciation and the spirit of reconciliation. I insist again on this term: reconciliation of all those who with different ideologies contributed to their success. And it is very important to emphasize that under no circumstances was the Transition based on oblivion, but on forgiveness and reconciliation. That is why it is very necessary and I love to re-ratify that spirit of the Transition today, I think it has not nested in many of those who have spoken this afternoon in the House in which we are right now. But, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you are committed to flying that success of the Transition. They fly it with the presentation of this Democratic Memory Bill, badly called a democratic memory, because it is a sectarian project of the most terrible stage in the history of Spain of the twentieth century and imposes on all Spaniards a memory, but a memory to its dictate, forgetting, of course, certain fundamental issues, of those 379 murders without clarifying ETA. You also forget what the forgetfulness of the word of the communists meant and forget of a very important and harmful period of the stage the Spanish history, the stage from 31 to 36, stage of the Second Republic, with a clear desire to resign, forgetting the hundreds of crimes that were committed under that historical moment. Your Honor, I could make much more criticism of this Democratic Memory Bill, but this is not the time or time. But, ladies and gentlemen, what we have not just understood is that you are urging the Government, to which you are a party - that is, to ask for things from yourselves - to make a declaration of a figure which contemplates a bill. This is absurd, this has no legal place in any way, right? In addition, we must remind you that this bill is set aside by the brutal demands placed on it by the groups that support you. It should not be forgotten that they were trying to take on a pen the fundamental pillar of the Transition, the Amnesty Act of 77; they were trying to establish a series of property reparations totally excluded from that bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I am addressing you again, but I see that with little attention, because no one looks at me in the face as I am looking at you; I would ask you to have a little more care and parliamentary courtesy. [[Rumors.- Several members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group make gestures to Mr Mateu Istúriz to look at the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, in its normative body there is a law on historical and democratic memory in Andalusia, the law of the year 2017, of 28 March, which contemplates what you have already proposed. In the meantime, do not seek recognition of a situation in this House by relying on a bill that you, the socialist government, with its far-left partners, have frozen in its handling. At best, we may suspect that they present this not only to commemorate the 85th anniversary of La Desbandá, but also because they have already agreed with the opponents of this bill that they will charge or brush the Amnesty Law. I conclude, Mr President, by recalling what is a priority for the People's Party in what you call democratic memory: the necessary and understandable search and exhumation of the victims' bodies and return them to their families - I conclude, Mr President - by putting all the budgetary funds at the service of this task, but with caution: to prevent this search from being used for extra funding by associations and foundations related to parties and left-wing unions. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO THE REVERSION OF ENERGY POVERTY. [[File number 162/000758]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u78	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the reversal of energy poverty. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled. [[The Vice-President, Elizo Serrano, took the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember Martyrdom? With a pension of 500 euros a month, two daughters, five grandchildren, seven mouths to feed and having to pay the rent. Do you remember Miguel, who had a dependent, highly dependent woman? I had to be 20 hours a day connected to a machine and I was afraid they'd cut off the light. Do you remember when the public wrote articles about Martyrdom and Miguel and when you, from Podemos, denounced from your accounts the energy poverty suffered by Martyrdom and suffered by Miguel? Do you remember that they were asking to rehabilitate 500,000 homes a year? Do you remember that energy poverty caused 7,000 deaths in Spain? Do you remember how the public denounced situations of energy poverty? [[shows photocopying a tweet]] [[Show photocopy of another tweet]] [[Show photocopy of another tweet]] And yet, we now watch the public newspaper headline that Sánchez is going to Germany to lower energy prices to fulfill his promises with the Spanish. [[Shows the photocopy of a news story.-Applause]] Do you agree with the public that PP and VOX do not vote in favour of measures to lower energy prices. [[Show photocopy of a holder]] Do you remember when the Sixth was also concerned about energy poverty in Évole's programmes? Do you remember when The Sixth was talking about family income and the price of energy? Do you remember when the Sixth said we paid a lot of taxes? Do you remember? Do you remember when the PSOE called demonstrations for energy poverty in 2016? Or when you congratulated Christmas by also calling people to the streets on December 21 to denounce energy poverty, to denounce, as Mrs Montero said, that seven million people had difficulty paying the bill for the light and that five million people could not pay for the heating? Do you remember when Mr. Iglesias, from this rostrum, was questioning the minister telling him that he also wanted minutes of silence for all those who died of energy poverty in Spain? [[Show a photocopy]] [[Show another photocopy]] [[Show photocopy of a tweet]] Do you remember? Because this happened with light at 60 euros megawatt/hour and today the price of light has reached 700 euros megawatt/hour. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today, energy poverty affects almost 11% of the population. Today, the shopping basket is more expensive. Today, the purchasing power of the Spaniards has diminished. Today, poverty has increased at historical levels. Today, people are much poorer than when you went out on the street to tell us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if at 60 euros the megawatt/hour died 7000 people in winter due to energy poverty, how many people die at 700 euros the megawatt/hour? Why are you two shut up? Why did they stop reporting him? Because you, apart from hypocrites, are the most antisocial government in Spanish history. [[Applauds]] Because you're the government of the most expensive light bill in history. And what happened? For the Spanish to understand: many things have happened. It has happened, first of all, that no one cares about Spain, that bipartisanship one day decided to sell energy sovereignty, that bipartisanship decided to take advantage of the companies and take shillings on the boards of directors with rotating doors, shillings of which you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, have also taken advantage. Little shillings that have been taken advantage of by their UGT colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the rotating mafia, which you no longer criticise, energy poverty, which you no longer care about, are real problems for the Spaniards; the sale of our country's energy sovereignty aggravated, moreover, by climate frivolity, by all those policies that you defend from the supranational institutions, from the Paris Accords, the Green Pact, the 2030 Agenda and its climate change law, which has condemned the Spaniards to that 700 euros per hour. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the energy sector is not only deeply dependent, but you have left it at the dawn of those supranational powers, of those dictates that they do to you from the Davos Forum, and I do not say so, as the Spanish Official College of Geologists also says, that Spain has not been able to harness its energy potential, its raw materials and minerals to reduce its energy dependence. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent for Spain to draw up an energy sovereignty plan with real experts, not with militants put to scientists, as you have used throughout the pandemic. [[Applauds]] Energy sovereignty is essential for national security. Energy is a strategic issue for nations, which you do not like and condemn. Energy sovereignty is essential for a nation to be free and independent; it is essential to have the capacity to protect the Spaniards; it is essential for the development of the economies and for the international strength of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, you called us autarchics, you called us anti-Europeans, you call us negatists, and the only anti-Europeans here are you, who have sold Europe's energy capacity to third parties. [[Applauds]] We must end your climate frivolity, ladies and gentlemen, because being environmentalists today is a matter of status; you have nothing to do with protecting nature, you impart your dogmas and fashions from Malasaña and impose them on the Spaniards and our energy sector. Ladies and gentlemen, you all live in a permanent fiction, and it is that foreign agendas and governments will improve people's lives. No, the only thing that will improve Martyr's life and Miguel's life is that Spain fights for energy sovereignty and the ability to protect its own. Thank you so much. [[The Vice-President, Pastor Julián, takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u80	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u81	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing in this House an issue that we have been debating for a very long time, which has been a headache for millions of families and businesses over the past year or perhaps something else, such as energy poverty, although now the parties of the Government, Socialist Party and Podemos and the nationalists - how curious! - no longer want to talk about energy poverty, because, of course, they govern them and, despite the fact that the price of light and gas is being fired more than ever, they are no longer able to assume the responsibility that they bear. And no, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just the consequence or the fault of the war, as the President said relatively recently in this plenary session of Congress. More than a year ago - remember Filomena - that prices began to rise and they said it was going to be for something punctual and, look where, everything that happens in this world directly affects the price of light, and here we are. It was for a while and we've been suffering from these so large and so high climbs for over a year. In the last year we have discussed here the various measures that the Government has taken to try to curb the price of electricity. Firstly, with the modification of the electricity bill, which introduced the hourly discrimination in power and energy, a measure that we have already warned could lead to a slight saving only for some consumers who could adapt to that change of time. But the great forgotten were always the same. Who? The SMEs and the... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u82	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u83	The great forgotten are SMEs with business schedules, which could not open their shops or open their businesses according to the schedule set by the government. In December the government put an end to the extraordinary 96% reduction in electricity bill charges to contain the price rise, but the year 2021 ended with consumers paying more and the government defaulting on its promise, the promise that the bill would be at 2018 levels. It couldn't have been either. In addition, the Executive moved away from the European Commission's energy price line, removing the precisely recommended rebates from Brussels, and with the decision not to call the first auction of forward energy contracts. In short, the usual modus operandi of this government: constantly improvise, listen deaf to the measures that we propose to them from the opposition and change their minds, that they know how to do it very well and usually supporting the measures that we present to them, as was the decrease in VAT on the bill of light. What do we want to see in this crisis, which is really dilated more in time? For in Citizens we believe that some of these fiscal measures are positive, but not sufficient. That is why we need to go a step further and, in line with the European Commission's proposals, move from indirect tax measures to direct tax measures, so that they have real effects on citizens' lives. In this regard, we have already proposed the approval of a general deduction in fiscal year 2021 for extraordinary costs in terms of electricity costs and the extension of the electric social bonus to the middle and working classes. Ladies and gentlemen, we Liberals have not ceased our efforts to ensure that this government takes steps to alleviate the difficult situation in which so many Spanish families and companies find themselves, although we have always met with it not before. We will always continue to insist, because, above all, what is at stake is the life and day-to-day life of the Spaniards. A few weeks ago we presented a battery of proposals for immediate implementation to combat the effects of inflation on families' pockets, including the prolongation of the reduction of VAT on electricity until the end of the year, also measures on fuel taxes or the adaptation of the IRPF to inflation. But no, that measure, which does work, does not want to adopt it and we are voted against. He has already warned them that they will bring it, will bring it by the Socialist Party with Unity We can, and we will all vote in favour because it is common sense, but we will have to wait a little longer for the Spaniards to continue to suffer a little longer. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we have found in this proposal some points that we could adopt, but I tell you one thing: simply seeing that you have spoken of the sustainability fund as a law that is in force, that you have not tabled any amendments in the period in which you could do so and now take it as a starting point, makes us think that it is a non-law proposal that is not fully worked out. We therefore ask you to review our amendments and to act accordingly, and please take them into account. So, we can think whether to support your bill or not. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez Granados. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u85	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the VOX Parliamentary Group brings us to its debate a non-legislative proposal on the reversal of energy poverty, a proposal based on the strategy adopted by the Government in April 2019 and whose 2020 report shows worrying developments in the cost of energy and, therefore, the increase in energy poverty among small consumers and vulnerable people. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what that same report of 2021 will say, or what it will say in the future of 2022? Well, this only corroborates and shows that every time the Socialist Party governs, the economic and social situation of all Spaniards gets worse. And this is nothing new, it happened in the early nineties with a socialist government, it happened in the years 2009, 2010 and 2011 with a Zapatero government and it is happening today with a sanchist government. The number of unemployed is increasing, the number of workers is reduced and the number of businesses in our country is increasing, because all the measures taken by his Government - also in the energy sector - are causing severe damage to the family economies and our economic sectors. But this government's out of the question. And it's not that this government isn't leaving anyone behind, it's not leaving anyone standing! And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, it is many times already that your Government has to rectify in its decision-making so that our families and entrepreneurs can continue to survive. [[Applauds]] Without going any further, just a few days ago Vice President Ribera had to give up the intervention of the electrical system with her proposal to limit the price of light to 180 euros megawatt. Or we checked how the European Union declared gas and nuclear energy as green energy in green taxonomy, contrary to the Spanish Government's proposal. Or we also see how Vice-President Ribera rectifys with the gas and will soon have to do so with the extension of the useful life of nuclear power plants. Not to mention the serious conflict in which we have been involved with Algeria and which will surely either limit our access to gas or, at best, to a very high payment of gas. Now we will see here, in the rostrum, the spokesman of the Socialist Group blaming third parties, Rajoy, COVID-19, the war in Ukraine or the far right. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, pay attention to the enormous demonstration that took place last Sunday in Madrid. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, are all the farmers who have expressed themselves to the extreme right? And the cattlemen, are they all far-right too? Or the transporters, are they also extreme right? Or are we just extreme right-wing all those of us who don't get along with their ideas and don't vote for them? All right, gentlemen of the Sanchista Party and their minions. Get out here and tell the truth to all the Spaniards, because our families, SMEs and industries in our country are bleeding out. We, from my parliamentary group, will continue to propose different fiscal measures in the field of energy, which, by the way, are also endorsed by the Institute for Economic Studies, which has already highlighted the unproductive cost of more than EUR 60 billion, which costs some 23 ministries of its harmful government. You demand the Spaniards that we fasten our belts, while you continue to waste all public money to, then, promise aid that never comes. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. We include in this proposal no amendments to the reduction of the value added tax from 7 % to 0 %; the reduction of the excise duty on electricity to 0.5%; the reduction of the VAT on the electricity bill from 21 % to 4 %; over-reduced VAT to 4% of gas supply and urban heating; the reactivation of electricity and gas interconnection projects from the peninsula to the rest of the European Union; and the tax reduction of fuels so that carriers can continue to work and there is no shortage of supplies, as is already happening in many markets in our country. The Spaniards can't wait another minute, because every day that happens are hundreds of jobs and companies that have to shut down our facilities. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, stop acting foreshadowed by the ideology of your radical left-wing partners, do not put your duty of service before the Spanish and pay attention to the demands that all economic sectors are asking of you. Otherwise, his days in the Moncloa are numbered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Herrero Bono. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. At the time of fixing positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u87	Good afternoon. The first thing that comes to my mind when I see this GNP is that taxes, in addition to collecting, serve other things, have other functions, and this seems to forget those who want to minimize them and are only thinking about themselves and their pocket. And it is true that electricity taxation is very complicated and requires simplification, among other things for users to understand the bill, but what I have been asking for for a long time in all my interventions, gentlemen of the Government, is that a minimum kilowattage price be set, or rather that maximum, up to a minimum consumption for everyone and, from that consumption, that the market operates; this protects the most vulnerable and, at the same time, discourages consumption, and is compatible with the electric bonus. This cannot be very difficult, as we have a part of the free market and another part of the market involved, and I also think it would be easy to relate it to the cost of the contracted power. There are many more things in this whole story, of course, but for now - and as I think we all say in this House - what the government has to do is act without delay. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u89	Thank you, President. Before, the problem of energy poverty was a problem of vulnerable families; now you have become vulnerable to the vast majority of Spanish families, because in this country there is no one who pays for electricity and no one pays for gas, it is that there is no Spanish that can pay for it. [[Applauds]] And in the meantime, what does the government do? The government stands by and looks at Brussels, and it is not realizing that countries of the European Union, like France, like Belgium or like Greece, are already acting and, while they are acting, you are looking to the sky to see if it is sunny or windy; while you look at the sky, the Spaniards are ruining themselves in so much incompetence. And of course, as far as this is concerned, you have now kneeled before Morocco and assaulted one of our most important energy partners, such as Algeria, and that is irresponsible. Not to mention the issue of the Sahara, of course, that the ladies and gentlemen of Podemos get up very easily here with the flags, but they do not get up from the government chair, hence they do not get up, because they are much more circus than coherence, the circus comes out easier than coherence. [[applause]] [[The Lord]] Of course, I believe that, if you have shown something, it is that this government is broken, that this government can no longer contribute anything to Spain and that every minute that you continue here is a minute more than the Spaniards will only suffer and that we will have an added problem. Therefore, the best service you can do to Spain is to leave as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u90	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u91	Thank you, President. Today VOX comes to us to talk about energy poverty; with a lot of rhetoric from the working class it does two things: the first is the pornography of poverty, and the second is that we propose to lower taxes more to the light, both of the bill and of the production. Since they are the Marquess Party, what they don't talk about is the benefits of electrics and of distributing them; that's what they don't talk about. Endesa, 2021, 1345 million euros, 3% more than in 2020. Of sharing these benefits they do not speak, because they protect their own, the rich. They've done the same with the fuels. A lot of bli, bli, a lot of blah, blah, with the workers this weekend. What they don't talk about is also the profits of Repsol, EUR 2499 million of profits in 2021, more than 5% than in 2020 sharing dividends. Look, we're going to vote no to this non-law proposal, because what you're trying to do is secure the benefits of the electrics and that you still have more, because you want to suspend the tax on production. Let us hope that next week the Government of Progress will not give them reason and share the benefits of large corporations in favour of citizenship, because the energy situation in the Spanish State has much more to do with sharing benefits than with armed conflicts. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u92	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u93	Thank you, President. Of course, I agree with what is being said by some groups here, that efficient, effective and immediate measures are needed to reduce energy prices, but today we are analysing a GNP on energy poverty. We can agree with the substance, with what is underlying in the GNP, that it is a solution to that energy poverty because, of course, having all the energy access and supply services covered is, of course, essential to enjoy a dignified life that covers those most essential and maximum needs in a context such as the current high energy prices. But we do not agree with the partisan use they make of energy poverty, and they have shown it here today with their speech. Of seven minutes, I think they have spent at least five minutes denouncing what they have not done or stopped doing a part of the government. Does this help them to get some measure for energy poverty, to fight it? Because I don't think it's good enough to report each other if you're not going to get any other action. Moreover, in establishing the measures of the GNP, they have not even taken into account the declarations of the Government, which intends to reform the social bonus in that income pact. They do not propose a single measure that will improve this situation. They are limited to talking about tax reduction and elimination when, basically, tax measures in the energy field have already been adopted by Royal Decree 17, validated in this Parliament, which is now going to be extended in that income pact and which you voted not to. What a paradox that you now worry about this topic! They do not propose a single measure to reform the social bonus, to solve the possible shortcomings in it, such as simplifying the application process or others. They do not propose the need to boost a social rate, aligned with the European guidelines, much less that it is not indexed to the pool to avoid market volatility. They do not even propose a social rate that takes into account, among other things, the level of income so that it is equitable and benefits, precisely, those who need it most. They are only talking about lowering VAT to 4%, a measure that is not redistributive to everyone alike, regardless of income - and they have not even realized that the drop that the government also applied has benefited even more those who have been on the free market. You are asking that you eliminate the tax on generation, a tax that is suspended, that will continue to be suspended, and you are proposing the elimination of the electricity tax; a tax that has also decreased and that will last longer, as already announced by the Government. They propose that the general state budgets assume the tariff deficit and the renewables premiums, a measure already adopted in 2021, which lowers the bill but not precisely the price of the wholesale market. On the other hand, we are told to carry out a comprehensive study of Order TED/371, establishing the new access tolls to support the energy transition and reduce the cost of electricity supply, selecting time slots to encourage new consumption habits and shifting power to less congested time slots. And the truth, I'm surprised because you were all the other day at the appearance of the president of the CNMC, who referred to this order precisely, but you should not have listened. According to the CNMC, the turbulence in the energy market has diluted the effect of these time slots and also the reduction of tolls operated as a result of high prices and, therefore, its effect cannot be estimated, so we must wait for the price situation to normalize, recover that scheme again and see its consequences. Therefore, a measure which neither today nor tomorrow nor within three months, i.e. in June, which is the deadline laid down in the GNP, will be possible. In short, that the few measures you are proposing are measures that were already more or less collected, that are going to be extended and that, although we believe that they must be maintained, something helps. It is true that prices are staggering the benefits of the rebates and therefore, as I said at the beginning, we will have to opt for more drastic measures, with regard to energy poverty, and, of course, to adapt their financing to the new Supreme Court ruling. I would also like to say that the autonomous communities in this area holding the portfolio of social services are doing a great deal of work in terms of the electric bonus and also in terms of gas, and in addition many of them have increased their social emergency aid allocations. We shall vote no to your proposal for the reasons stated. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u94	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How dare VOX present an initiative against energy poverty? How do they have the defachability of talking about poor households, talking about households without electricity supply and, in addition, asking for a forecast study? You govern or facilitate the Government of the Community of Madrid, you govern and facilitate the Government of the City of Madrid, and allow 1,800 children - 1,800 children - to take 500 days without light. You have to have a face. You have to have a face! And they also allow an adviser from the Community of Madrid and the President to question Caritas's report on poverty and, in addition, to make mockery and mockery of where the poor are. A few kilometers from the Puerta del Sol. 1,800 children without light! You allow it and then you call yourselves Christians. The corporal. Gospel according to St Matthew: Woe to you, Pharisees and hypocrites, who shut the door of heaven so that others do not enter! Well, that's pharisees and hypocrites. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u96	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u97	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am going to tell you is also going to be interesting, don't worry. Of course, energy poverty is a situation that worries us, that we must worry about, and that has been accentuated since Russia invaded Ukraine and energy prices went absolutely uncontrollably. The situation resulting from this invasion must concern us not only in the short term but in the medium term, and we will have to take measures that are going to be difficult because the economic situation is going to get complicated for everyone. Faced with this, I think we should avoid taking measures that in Catalan - I think in Spanish it is said the same - we say perdigonada. This is not a matter of shooting at all sites and seeing if I am getting caught because, look, you are asking, for example, for an exemption from VAT or for VAT to be reduced to 4% for electricity consumption. Let's be honest. Will any of the 350 Members here be able or not to arrive at the end of the month if VAT reduces it from 21 % to 4 %? No, no, Is it reasonable to take this step right now? No, no, Are you a populist? Yeah. Genera vows? Unfortunately, I think so, but the economic hole that this is going to create in the general budgets of the state so that the 350 Members, plus the thousands and thousands of Spaniards who are going to have a bad time, will fortunately arrive at the end of the month just as if we have 4% or 21% of VAT on the electricity bill, is not indifferent. Therefore, we do not agree with many of the measures, we agree with the diagnosis, but it must be faced with fine surgery, with measures that go to the people who really need it, because these public resources that they intend to dispense with today we will need them. I have also heard from the rostrum that large and small businesses, with 4 % VAT, are going to benefit. They will explain it to me, because VAT is deducted when they make the settlement. So, man!, apart from populists, we could expect the 350 to be somewhat intelligent and, above all, clear. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u99	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you have it very clearly, very clearly. You have to admit it. They know perfectly well that what remains until the elections, in each and every one of their speeches, in each and every one of their speeches, must appeal to the working class. Don't you? It's like the wolf dresses like sheep. That's very good. I think it's skillful. It's smart, but I think it's part of our responsibility to try to get out and counter it. I will not enter into the criminalization of the media that you have done here today and which seems terrible, terrible to me. But, well, to the point. You speak of Martyrdom, who has seven mouths to feed, and Michael, who has a family member with a huge dependence, and you are speaking of these two people with serious problems of social exclusion and poor. I ask you a question, gentlemen of VOX, especially those who can sound good to you what you say. The first is: what would happen if Martyrius was out of Senegal? What would happen? What would happen if Miguel was gay? What would happen? Surely, they would not like to talk so much about Martyrdom and Michael. But more questions. Martyrdom probably pays the interprofessional minimum wage. Why do they vote against raising the interprofessional minimum wage? If they are the spokesmen of the poor! Miguel has a relative, a mother, I think you were saying, Mrs. De Meer, with dependency problems. You, today, what would you vote against a law of dependency, which yes or no? Man, don't even quote it, don't even quote it. Obviously, the government is responsible for the 80 % increase in light in the last year; it has a share of responsibility, a huge responsibility. The swindle of light in this country also has to do with two former presidents and thirty former ministers ending up on boards of administration of electrics, it is obvious. But it would also be very good to talk about big companies, because you will never, for example, talk about Repsol, ever; nor, of course, will you ever set up a demonstration in front of Repsol, ever. You are never going to talk about Iberdrola and, obviously, you are never going to mount a demonstration in front of Iberdrola. Why? You are of easy slogans and the left, many times, we talk about things, first, that do not interest anyone and, second, we do not explain them well. You: Spain at dawn, only VOX left... That's what it sells. I'm going to launch a slogan. You are the party of the rich. [[Rumors]] VOX is the party of the rich and, if you're not rich, the question you have to ask yourself is why you vote for VOX. [[applause]] You mount a manifestation of the field, in part. Being in the field is very varied. You can sweep olives, be a newspaperman who sweeps olives for ten hours for 800 bucks a month, or you can have a farm to hunt corks. You are the people of the estate; they are the people of the estate; that is your people of the countryside. Because I saw those who were going to the demonstration of the countryside in Madrid, and do you know where everyone was going, all those who were going with their VOX flag? To the Barrio de Salamanca, which, of course, is full of courtyards and fields; all these are farmers, right? [[Applauds]] To you, who can sound good to you what these people say, VOX, the adalids of poverty, voted against ERE aids; they voted against firing during layoffs; they voted against raising pensions; they voted against raising the interprofessional minimum wage; they vote against preserving the planet; they vote against any right to the LGBT collective; they vote against any aid against macho violence, and they vote against banning the sale in loss. They're not yours, they're not yours! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u101	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no more noble subject to be discussed in this Chamber than how to tackle poverty. I was willing to discuss measures to address energy poverty, but I have come across a non-law proposal registered in 2021 on which the spokesman for VOX, Mrs De Meer, has not spoken at all. He has not spoken about the measures they propose. Why didn't you talk? For reasons. The first, because most of these measures have already been put in place by the Government and, therefore, was not going to repeat something about what they, moreover, voted against. You voted against the reduction of energy taxes. And secondly, because none of the measures that you propose to address energy poverty assumes the need for those who are supplying themselves with the sale of energy, which is the electric oligopoly, to leave a part of their benefits to deal with energy poverty. You don't touch that. [[Denials by Mrs De Meer Méndez.-Applause]] Look, energy poverty is the one that is suffering in the Royal Cañada - you know where the Royal Cañada is, don't you? - since last October 2, 2020 when Naturg Y decided to cut the light to sectors 5 and 6 of the Royal Cañada, leaving 4000 people without light, including 1800 children and adolescents. [[assent of Mrs De Meer Méndez]] To date, the Community of Madrid, which you govern with the People's Party, has not moved a finger to return the supply to you, violating human rights, on a continuous basis, of the most vulnerable population in Madrid. It's an absolute indecency. When referring to climate change you use terms as climate frivolity, which you have used today. Its leader Abascal spoke of climate religion the other day. Look, it's not frivolity, it's not religion, it's science, it's science. Do you understand? On March 18th at the two poles, in the Arctic and Antarctica, there were record temperatures with 30o and 40o above average temperatures. Take that data away from me because that data is an objective data, it's not an invention, it's not religion, it's what's happening right now on our planet. Against that, obviously, we have to work and we have to fight to leave a decent planet to those who come after us. That is why you have a very careful mental cocoa because you say: The law of climate change must be repealed. And at the same time, he talks about energy sovereignty. Have you read the climate change law? Have you read the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan? Well, those plans and that law are a road map for our energy sovereignty because in Spain, on the Iberian peninsula we have no oil, we have no gas, but we have a lot of sun and we have a lot of wind. To achieve energy sovereignty, progress must be made towards a model based on renewable energy, and this is what the climate change law is doing and what the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan is doing. [[Applauds]] But you don't care about this, you don't care because you haven't come here to talk about energy policy. In fact, they have not made any proposals at all. We do have them, we do have proposals and they go on to reduce the profit margin of the electric oligopoly, for what we raise the need to speed up the adoption of the law to cut those fallen profits from the sky; we bet to decouple the gas price from the wholesale market because that will undoubtedly have an impact on the lower energy price; we bet to improve the social bonus and we make the proposal of a check of 300 euros for the eighteen million families that are welcome to the regulated market, and we bet to create a public energy company. All these are issues on which we have been working for a long time and are proposals that, to the extent that they are being adopted, will have a real impact on the price of energy and will assume that we are actually facing energy poverty; facing it with facts, with concrete measures, which is what this Government is really doing and, at the same time, moving towards energy sovereignty. You have not said a single measure that you can implement. You haven't talked about any models. Look, the other day the European Commissioner for Energy said that energy policies have three axes in Europe: decarbonisation, security of supply and affordable prices. That is what we are working on in this Government. But you don't know whether you want decarbonisation or not, because one day you say yes and another day you say no; you don't know where you're going because you have no proposals or energy policy. All you've come here to do is demagogy and talk about things that really don't matter to you, so please make concrete proposals, work the proposals in depth and don't come here to warm our heads. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u102	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bueno Campanario has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u103	Good afternoon. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group expresses its empathy and closeness to the families, workers and workers who are affected by the rise in energy prices at a time of war in the European Union that threatens stability and the foundations of democracy. The Government is working, promoting initiatives in our country and in the context of the European Union, as the situation requires comprehensive solutions to make them effective. And VOX brings us a non-law proposal on the reversal of energy poverty, a proposal that is pure political opportunism. Mrs De Meer, you cannot go up to this atrium, you cannot come to this House to say barbarities and to tell lies; you must have respect for the space in which we are and for the representation of the citizenry. [[Applauds]] You can't say anything here, you can't say it; a respect, please. Moreover, from the proposal they are bringing, they are not interested in energy poverty, because not even the object of the order to which they refer is energy poverty. If they are interested in energy poverty, explain to the people of Coria del Río, Isla Mayor, Mairena del Alcor, Isla Cristina, Vera, Villamartín, Barbate, Priego de Córdoba, Ronda, Andújar why they rejected in Andalusia a legislative initiative promoted by thirty municipalities to combat energy poverty. Are they not interested in Andalucia's energy poverty? [[Applauds]] We must take note, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that they have never been interested in energy poverty; indeed, they have never been interested in any aspect of poverty. Yes, Mrs DeMeter, never has the right-wing that has ruled - and I look now at this side of the bench - done anything for the poorest; never has the extreme right supported anything that benefits the most vulnerable, nothing that improves their quality of life. And yes, Mrs Martínez - I do not know if you are there - the Socialists do not avoid talking about energy poverty because for the Spanish government to fight it is a priority, so the National Strategy against Energy Poverty was approved in 2019, with urgent measures to prevent the gas price from impacting on the final bill of families, to reduce VAT from 21 % to 10%, as you like, to reduce taxes - and I am now referring to the spokesman of the People's Party, who has given a rally here -. You are the party that when it does not govern wants taxes to be lowered, but when it rules they all go up, so let's talk a little bit of political coherence, which is very important. [[Applauds]] It protects the most vulnerable, ladies and gentlemen, increasing the level of coverage of the electric social bond and the possible recipients of the thermal social bond, and it also avoids the cutting of supply creating the figure of the minimum vital supply, which you, Mrs De Meer, supported us. Do they count this to all those people who name every time they come up here? Measures also for industry, structural measures that drive the energy transition to ensure that its benefits reach all citizens. The Government's drive to deploy renewable energy is critical to reducing our energy dependence on the outside, but also to reducing prices. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is progress in energy sovereignty, which must go hand in hand with the care of the planet and social justice. And of course you're negatists, of course you are! Ladies and gentlemen of VOX and the People's Party, they have not supported any government measures to alleviate the rise in energy prices. They have not supported any measures by the Government to benefit workers, not even to benefit people in the countryside. They have not supported any measure that would touch the privileges of those who have the most in favor of those who need the most. [[Applauds.-Protests]] The Right and the extreme right of this country vote the opposite of what they do. I mean, they say one thing, but they do the opposite. Have you told this to the people you've been naming in this atrium? Ladies and gentlemen, if you have voted against urgent measures to mitigate the impact of the rise in gas and electricity prices. They've voted against it, please! For not supporting, they did not even support the law of the food chain, which contains for the first time a historical claim of the field. [[Applauds]] They disguise themselves and go to the demonstrations, but the people in Andalusia know very well who they represent: they represent the young men, that the only thing they brought to our land was the exploitation of the men and women of the countryside. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Because it's not that there's only VOX left, ladies and gentlemen, it's that there's nothing left with VOX. So from here I appeal to the men and women who fight every day, whose parents, grandparents and grandmothers fought, separated your feet and built a common and diverse space called Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we must stop them again, and I am addressing the whole parliamentary arc, because they are a party outside the hope that this country deserves.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u104	Your Honor, I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u105	As the poet said, bad people walking. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u106	Thank you. Mrs De Meer Méndez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u107	I'm negotiating a transaction with the PP.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u108	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u109	We then proceed to debate the motion for urgent questioning by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero, on the taxation of the scholarships of the orphans of the Germanwings accident. [[GWI flight 9525 Barcelona-Düsseldorf]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u110	Thank you, President. After tomorrow, Thursday, March 24, seven years of the tragedy of Germanwings' GWI 9525 flight to the Alps are celebrated. As I said last week, there are no words to describe something so terrible. Today we are joined by the Germanwings Disaster Affected Association. I'm not going to spread out. They have been able to be with many of you today and no one better than them to explain and expose the situation and debate we have today. Lourdes, the president of the association, will accompany us. We are also joined by two members of the board, Cristina, an orphan, daughter of Marta, and Sandalio, also a member of the board and brother of Estela. Before we begin, I wanted to apologize to you for not having been able to resolve between us all over the last four years something that the German Parliament was able to resolve on the first day, without delay, without silence and without delay; apologies for not having helped you yet to close a folder that has been open for too long and, above all, apologies for the long silences of everyone, and we included ourselves. If this issue is finally resolved, that we are convinced that yes and that we hope that it will be on the date on which the minister committed herself last week, it will not be at all merit of any of us here, all the merit is of the people who are accompanying us today, of the members of the association, who have never surrendered, who have always insisted and who are an example that confirms that of resisting and persisting is winning. The merit is all yours, Lourdes, Cristina, Sandalio, Silvia, Eduardo, all of you. I make a brief summary of what we have already discussed most extensively last week. Lufthansa, after the tragedy, decides to offer scholarships to orphans in order to ensure that these 82 boys and girls can continue their studies. On May 29, 2018, this Congress approves the consideration of a law that includes an additional provision that repairs this issue. A new additional provision was made to the IRPF Act so that Germanwings orphans would be exempt from paying taxes on the scholarships they received. During the period of amendments no party submitted any amendments to this additional provision. The same Socialist Party that governs today voted in favour and did not table any amendments. The legislature fell, the proposal also fell. Last week, the Minister of Finance said, at last and for the joy of many, that the commitment made would be implemented this same year before the income settlement campaign of 2021. On 28 May 2019, on behalf of the President of the Government, Mr.Iván Redondo, Director of the Cabinet of the Presidency of the Government, replied to a letter to the association in which he undertook to resolve this issue as soon as possible, a letter that many of you have heard today from Lourdes, the president of the association. The President of the Government, therefore, has a formal commitment to the families of those who have died from the Germanwings disaster for nearly three years. This is one of those issues that doesn't make you feel very proud of politics, generating expectations that haven't just arrived when what is required is simply political will. I want this injustice to be repaired and I know that most of you here also want it and many of you have put forward proposals in this line. I want this trip to Madrid to have been worth a bit, and I hope that we all say yes to what last week was a question and that today is an affirmation. This 2022 we will leave tax-free the scholarship that the orphans of the Germanwings disaster received. Thanks for the work done on all the members of the association and that you can gradually close all the folders that you still have open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u111	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me at the beginning of my speech to address the guest gallery to greet the representatives of the Germanwings GWI 9525 in the Alps with the greatest emotion, respect and consideration. The Statutes of this association, which has been declared of public benefit, provide, among other purposes, for the defence of all rights corresponding to the victims of that disaster and their families. I also regret that they have to relive it for administrative matters that had to be resolved without arriving here. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have always tried to do in the General Courts in the face of tragedies and misfortunes which, due to their great dimensions and special circumstances, shock all Spaniards, and in the case of that fateful flight between Barcelona and Dusseldorf to all over the world, I trust that the representatives of those affected will leave Congress this afternoon feeling supported both emotionally and parliamentaryly in the very meritorious and difficult task they are undertaking and that they will try to do in favour of relatives and relatives of those who have died in that horrific air disaster of which it will be precisely seven years last morning, Thursday, as Mrs Nogueras i Camero recalled. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion calls on the Government to take a number of measures to which, as stated in the Diario de Sesiones, the Minister for Finance and Public Service, Mrs Montero, committed herself in the debate on the inquiry held last week. For those who, as is my case, we have already given and explained at the end of May 2018 the vote in favour of taking into consideration a proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group, debated and approved in the XII Legislature, amending the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March, and other tax rules that included this issue that arises today, this motion provides an opportunity to insist on the need for the Government, whatever its political colour, to be equipped with tools to remove obstacles to the flow of best care to victims. This is the case of the star flight of Germanwings, a subsidiary airline of the German company Lufthansa, and the wretched row of orphans that society has to attend to in order to face and supply, as far as possible, the great vital vulnerability due to the disappearance of one of its parents or both. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the future of these years, it must be recognized that the tortuous political and administrative peripulation that the association of the affected has had to carry out in order to access the more than reasonable tax exemption from the aid fund of 3 million euros that was created by the German airline to provide scholarships to the 54 Spanish children who lost at least one of their parents. A fund that, for the stupidity of society, has ended up taxing in terms of income, therefore seems to me to be very relevant both the inquiry and the motion that is being debated this afternoon, even more so when I have reviewed some parliamentary precedents and I have seen that the Government has failed to answer written questions formulated at the beginning of this same legislature and has several oral questions pending in relation to the tax exemption to the beneficiaries of Lufthansa scholarships for the Spanish orphans of the Germanwings tragedy in order to enable them to complete both their education and their academic training. That is to say, while accepting the word given here, in the parliamentary seat, by the head of the Finance Ministry, it seems to me very appropriate to strengthen the commitment to a call for attention and guidance from the plenary of the Congress of Deputies by urging the Government to confront without delay the solution to this problem and to repair what can only be recognized as a very unfair situation. Take as a model what the German Government did to the German orphans of the same air accident, to which it immediately granted the tax exemption from aid. In short, I conclude by reaffirming my vote on this motion as a result of interpellation, as well as the memory of the victims of that inconceivable fatality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u113	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u114	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the Germanwings Flight 9525 Association and tell them that in the handling of this motion, in which it is a question of amending the IRPF Act to declare exempt the scholarships granted by the German airline Lufthansa to orphans because of this accident, which occurred seven years ago, on 24 March 2015, it is fair to recall that, unfortunately, this is one of the parliamentary vices that makes us, perhaps all, responsible that this situation is still pending a solution, parliamentary vices through certain engineerings by those who in the opposition say one thing and then in the government do not comply with it or by those who from the government undertake to do something that they assumed in the opposition and do not comply with it. We believe it should be eradicated. We have complained a lot about the fact that in this Congress there are issues that are chained up, issues that we would all agree with, as is the case with this issue, where there would be no minute to discuss, but they are chained up with other issues where the debate is really relevant. In 2018, on 29 May, an initiative was discussed, in fact, to amend the law on local finances, to modify, from a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2017, the surplus-value tax, and if you do remember or review the hemeroteca, the minutes of that day, you will see that here there was nothing about the reform of the IRPF to solve the problem of those affected, of the orphans of the accident of the Germanwings plane. There are barely two references to that issue in those minutes because it really didn't matter. What the People's Party did at that time - being in the Government and being able to do so from the Government through another way - was that, through a bill, its parliamentary group simply requested that yes, that the surplus value in the local tax law be changed and also, in passing, that the IRPF be amended. That is the parliamentary engineering of which we have complained so much, also now, when the PSOE and Podemos Government, for example, use a pension update decree to force them to wear masks outside, or to delegate to the Government the modification of this obligation without having to return to Congress, or when another decree of urgent measures against COVID marks the appointment of a vice-president as a member of the CNI Commission, something which, moreover, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in its day appealed. We, it is true that in 2018 we opposed that ordago at that time of the People's Party, because they were simply trying to avoid the reports of the Council of State on the issue that was the main one - of course not for you, but in what the proposal was trying to do - to change the surplus value. As has been done now, for example, that trick with the proposed law of the Socialist Party or of the United Nations We can modify the system of appointments of the judicial dome when its general council is in office. Unfortunately, in that parliamentary engineering which is so much practiced here and which we have so much complained about and so much rejected, the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can now use and have used the same tricks. Who gets hurt by that engineering? Obviously, citizens; in this case and it is sadder, those affected by having lost their parents or one of them in an air tragedy such as that of the flight of the Germanwings plane. The Minister of Finance, Maria Jesús Montero, said in this rostrum that now the Government is going to comply already at once, when they have been able to do so even by emergency procedure through a decree out of exceptional necessity, something they have been using throughout this legislature on a recurring basis, even having had to resort to some decrees because it was not so. Unfortunately, however, you were never a reason to meet that exceptional and urgent need that has been seen in other matters. You were never served either by the governments of the People's Party or by the governments of the Socialist Party. You were never urgent or necessary. In Citizens we really hope, and that is why we will vote yes to this motion, that this time the commitments to those affected by this tragedy will be fulfilled and, above all, that it will be explained what will happen with the years in which by legal prescription it will possibly be difficult to recover those taxes that you have already paid. I hope that we will continue to put an end to these manoeuvres of parliamentary engineering, which in the end only harm the citizens - perhaps harm the most affected - because these unfortunate situations have unfortunately brought us alternative governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u115	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u116	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies; good evening now. First of all, we would like to extend a warm welcome to the representatives and families of the Germanwings Victims Association and its president, Mrs Lourdes Bonet, thank you very much for being here this afternoon and, above all, I thank you for the enormous work you have done over the years to bring justice to the victims of this tragic disaster. I'm going to explain a little family history, a sad family history. My father ran out of his father at the age of 12, a serious illness took him quickly and painfully. The fact of being orphaned by a father at such an early age has marked him for life and caused him a pain that has only been attenuating over the years. Imagine how a child feels when suddenly and from day to day he runs out of his father, without his mother, or if both at once, without warning, without waiting. It is evident that such a dramatic fact as this marks them forever. Months after the accident, the victims'association awarded compensation to the company for civil liability and other compensations that could serve, for example, as study grants for children of school age. From the very beginning, the association requested that these compensations be exempt from the IRPF tax by not dealing in any case with a voluntary event or with which those involved were profiting, since in no case is a benefit obtained, an argument with which we agree one hundred percent. Being aware, therefore, of the need to do an act of justice towards the victims of this tragic event, and especially those who suffered it at an early age, we have reached an agreement with the Spanish Government, as announced last week, for the reparation of this injustice. For this reason, in the coming days, a Royal Decree-Law will be adopted by the Government which contains a final provision stating that the amounts received by the victims of Germanwings in respect of civil liability or other voluntary aid provided by the airline will be declared exempt from IRPF retroactively. Therefore, from the adoption of this royal decree this reparation will be a reality. It is also convenient for all of us to make a reflection and a bit of self-criticism, as colleagues who have preceded me have done. This Thursday will mark the seventh anniversary of the air tragedy, and it is now that justice will be done, seven years later. In Germany, for example, this initiative was adopted from the zero minute; here we have taken seven years. I believe that from unacceptable situations like this we must learn all and all so that they do not repeat themselves; we must give rapid solutions to those who suffer the most without letting the problem go away causing more pain. For us it will not be, we are endorsed by ninety-one years of history of struggle for social justice with the will to always be with the people, advancing along with them, always recalling the words that the great poet Salvador Espriu dedicated to those to whom at some point in our life we dedicate ourselves to exercising public responsibilities. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u117	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u118	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin, as it cannot be otherwise, by expressing on behalf of my group our respect and memory for the victims of whose deaths this week are already seven years old. Having said that, we also want to stress that we believe it is important that the descendants of the victims can develop their lives with the minimum possible consequences. According to what has been expressed in this House and in other statements of opinion, the way in which this can be a little reality seems to be agreed through this measure that we are discussing here today, the tax exemption for so-called scholarship from the private airline Lufthansa fund and the insurance company Allianz. Obviously, we will support this initiative. We understand that there is enough consensus, it is a very sensitive issue and there is a commitment, so we see no reason why this should not be the case if it also contributes to the objective that the victims' families and families have also brought to us as a wish. However, I would like to use this speech to shed some light in a substantive debate, in a debate that is based on the extent that we are taking today, because I think that too often in the committees, in the plenary or in any of the debates in this House, any occasion is taken to present a tax reduction as a solution to all evils. The argument - false, by the way - is always the same: taxes are bad, the state is bad, the state steals from us. For example, it is quite clear that in the case we are dealing with today, at this time it was not the State that stole it, it was the airline that stole things that were much more serious than taxes that could be under discussion. In this sense, we believe that it would be more constructive, rather than refocusing on taxation, on the collection of the State as if it were a bad thing, to emphasize, to put our commitment on what regulation, what legislative measures we can bring to this House or we can regulate. I think, for example, of the Insurance Contract Act. It is not that he necessarily has a reason for the change, but he could tell them that the only administrative problem faced by the family members of the victims of the accident is not the tax payment of the so-called scholarships to the studies, but that they have also had perils in the courts to be able to collect the compensation provided for by law, as private companies were looking at them this amount. I would also like to remind you that it is true that we have to propose and contribute from the State that all people, especially those who have suffered a catastrophe like this, can develop, as I said, their lives, which they can also study. But really who is responsible for all people being able to continue their studies, if they wish, is not a private enterprise, it is not the mercy of a company, but it is the State that is responsible. I also wanted to remind you that if Lufthansa or Allianz really wanted the net amount they have put into this fund of studies to be entirely those affected, since the tax legislation is widely known and, but, it is easy to consult, it was as easy as simply increasing the fund of this scholarship so that the net amount that the relatives received was really the desired one. I would like to know what the proposing group or any of the groups that so much defend this measure - which I would like to reiterate that we also support - would think if there was any way for anyone who had to take charge of the tax amount to be the company, the private airline Lufthansa or the insurance company and not the State. The truth is that I would like to know if many parties that are so firmly defending this would continue to support this measure in favour of the well-being of the family members of the victims of that damn flight. To conclude, I simply say to you that, despite the reasons or certain discussions that I believe may be interesting, we really support this initiative very pleased, to respond to a long-standing demand, but also because it is shown that it is once again the State that is at the side of people's well-being. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u119	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nevado del Campo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u120	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We welcome the victims with all our affection and respect, and we deeply regret that they have had to spend seven years to resolve a mere parliamentary procedure and thus their problem. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thanks to the tense debate that took place here last week, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Montero learned that the Republican left had agreed on a decent matter. And since my VOX Parliamentary Group is not like you, who consistently vote not for everything we propose for the mere fact of being VOX, we will vote yes to exemption from the payment of the IRPF from orphan children's scholarships following the Germanwings accident. [[Applauds]] We have lived the pardons to the seditious, we have seen how 16% of the budget for autonomous communities is going to stop in Catalonia, and suddenly - surprise! - a matter of general interest. How many matters left, Mr. Rufián? Is there any particular relevance that the Spaniards have a right to know? This initiative serves as an example for us to demonstrate the diligence with which the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party work, and I will tell you why. Rajoy promised that these orphans bear no burden for the compensations received; then Sánchez promised, I guess there was the mistake, trusting in who always does just the opposite of what he promises. [[Applauds]] And now Mrs Montero promises it, not without first pointing out warmly that the victims are nobody's. And it is that the victims of tragedies, the victims of traffic accidents and, above all, the victims of ETA have something in common, you do not care at all. You care about those victims who make up, those oppressed collectives to be able to patrimonialize, subsidize and amortize, although that gives better to this other minister Montero, who is also not present. The Minister of Finance is more of: On Monday I fix that of the capital gains, mayors. Don't worry, we're not going to stop the cash register. Why didn't Minister Montero fix this for the weekend? Have you not been able to work with the noise that the hundreds of thousands of carriers, hunters, fishermen, farmers, farmers and everyone who makes an honest living? Have those voices that shouted 'Government, resignation' disconcentrated a lot? [[Applauds]] Don't worry, it doesn't take much concentration, the 800,000 euros that belong to these people who are demanding, these orphans and not the Treasury, are going to be compensated in excess with the more than 3.5 billion that they are going to enter thanks to the scandalous increase in inflation, which they not only do not avoid, but also encourage. For everyone to understand, the Government is delighted that the rise in prices generates an increase in excise and VAT revenues. The taxpayer is suffocated by the price of light, gas, gasoline and commodities. And who wins? Finance. Do you think Mrs Montero is going to adjust the IRPF to inflation to curb the massive impoverishment of the Spanish? No, that money they want to silence the class unions and continue to subsidize voters. Mrs Montero said that the victims are nobody's and I will answer that all Spaniards are victims of their poor management. They are throwing away, lords of the PSOE, of Podemos and all others; they are throwing away all that they have promised them and that they have not fulfilled. Those who are now in ruin are telling you loud and clear that they can no longer. They have told the Government, and they have told Mrs Montero directly, that she will return as soon as possible the amounts to these orphans who have never had to pay, have a little decency and resign. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u121	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u122	Good night, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is not going to be a political speech for use, today is going to be the testimony of a person who lived directly the drama with all the relatives you are here today. Thanks for being here. The gratitude of those hours, of those seven days I spent with you will never forget it and carry it permanently with me. [[Applauds]] It was March 24th, seven years ago. I was inaugurating a bust of Adolfo Suárez in Ávila when the Minister of Development told me: an accident has occurred. It was 10 in the morning, 41 minutes and 6 seconds, and the plane operated by Germanwings, which went from Barcelona to Düsseldorf, crashed in Provence, in Upper Provence, in the French Alps. One hundred and fifty dead, fifty-one Spaniards, most Catalans, including a jacetana like me, with her seven-month-old baby. The most absolute horror. The truth is that there may be states of emotional emergency, states of desolation, states of depression, but there is a moment in our lives that changes radically and sometimes in an abrupt way, when we do not expect it, because one good day an event happened and we are no longer the same. When we have lived we cannot be indolent, the dead cannot be indolent, but it would be even more absurd than the living we were indolent. That is why we are here today, to put an end to an injustice, to put an end to a nonsense, to put an end to the senselessness of what has happened and to put an end, at least in part, to that tragedy, to that tragedy that devoured us all, that devoured us for many days and that we are still dragging. At first we saw the images of the rescue teams looking for the causes. Then we heard the voice of the prosecutor, in Marseilles, who told us what the cause of the accident was; but suddenly the victims, when we met, when we cried together, we sought a reason, because in the end we sought reasons when there were probably no reasons, when there was no black box in each person so that we could really know why what happened. But I am going to tell you a testimony. I'm going to tell you a testimony of what happened to me. After two days in which he had practically not eaten or slept a woman came, - his husband had died with his two children - 1,80, a woman who dragged an immeasurable integrity, and I remember that she hugged me and said to me: today I hug you, you no longer hug us because today you need our support, because I have forgiven you. She told me she had forgiven. I will not be the one to say who has to forgive or not because forgiveness is an individual moral choice, but it is true that forgiveness for those we are not indolent does not mean neither dismemberment, nor does it mean justice, nor does it mean compassion in any of its magnitudes, in any of its scopes. That is why we are here today, not to be inert, to be able to return, to act with that rebellion that our consciences demand, to end what never had to have happened. And precisely we demand the Ministry of Finance to have the proper sensitivity, to Minister Montero to conclude that proposal that we initiated and that the fatal motion of censure was frustrated. Today it was not, gentlemen of VOX or gentlemen of Citizens, for the speech they have made, today it was another completely different speech when the victims are up. They can't do politics. They just can't do politics. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you what, and I'm done. In those days I discovered that it was possible to collaborate. I was in charge of the Generalitat de Catalunya and I thank all the services of the Generalitat for the magnificent work they did. I had magnificent employees, I had Mossos d'Esquadra, I had Civil Protection, I had the Ministry of Health, I had the Ministry of the Interior, and as Undersecretary of the Ministry of Development I had the magnificent public employees who were in the Ministry of Development and who are still in the Ministry of Development. That's why it's not a day to do politics, it's a day to show that when we all go together and we have a superior good to defend there were no ideologies, we were all united and we worked together. It was an exercise of cooperation, it was a magnificent exercise of understanding. Too bad we don't live up to the circumstances at times. I'm on my way. A woman lost her husband, executive of a Japanese company, left two orphans and in a letter she wrote, which is wonderful, she said a phrase - which I will try to say in a Catalan that, unfortunately, is not my mother tongue -: 'Leave the mountain, my love, and return home'. Today, of course, we will leave the mountain and return home, we will return home with the duties done because today we close here a stage of our lives. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u123	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u124	Thank you, President. On Thursday - as was said - seven years of a tragedy occurred on 24 March 2015, and the invisible part of this tragedy is the eighty-two children who were orphaned and who are still suffering today; fifty-four of them Spanish. So, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, first of all, we wanted to welcome you to the victims' association, to its president and to its board, and to tell you that our commitment has always been; to tell you that you have all our recognition and that you deserve to be accompanied in your pain and in the reparation of the damage that the public administrations can offer you. [[Applauds]] That's what we're on, that's what we're on, and that's what we've always been on. Where they won't find us is in the use of pain as a tool to make politics. Decency, said the lady of VOX. Lack of shame. What a shame to come here today with that speech. Look, we certainly are used - parliamentarians - to this kind of speech, but not because we are used to it, I think we should normalize. The pandemic is being used here in this rostrum to attack the Government; war is being used to attack the Government; and orphans have been used today to attack the Government. Your resignation, that of your entire group in bloc, for having risen to applaud that speech that I did not play here today; and, on behalf of my group, I apologize to you. [[Applauds]] This way of doing politics brings nothing good to parliamentarianism. Turning to the subject of the motion, I believe that it is necessary to recall that the Income Tax Act provides, in article 7, for a full list of tax exemptions, and, among them, includes those compensations as a result of civil liability for personal damage in the amount legally or legally recognized; that is, the family members did not tax those compensations that they received from the insurer for civil liability. As far as the taxation of scholarships is concerned, I think it is good today that we stick to the minister's commitment that it will be resolved in the next few days. It will be settled before the liquidation of the IRPF takes place, with respect to the financial year 2021, i.e. within a few days. For those who have already declared it before 2021, this amount will also be refunded. That is the commitment that has always been made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group; a commitment that was meridianly clear when we voted in favour of that bill - which has also been appointed here - in May 2018, at that time we were in opposition as a Socialist Parliamentary Group. Then, we entered the government, and the first budgets for the 2019 financial year included it to be exempt. It is a pity that those budgets could not be approved and, from there, we all know the concatenation of the facts. There was a call for elections, the session ended, and that bill fell. But see if there was any political commitment on the part of our group, which was even introduced at the session. Important, today let's stay with this; let's close that folder for which you've been fighting for so many years. Let us make ourselves available to the partnership for other initiatives that are also being addressed and studied. Today - as the spokesman for the People's Group said now - we must remain sensitive. Today it's time to do joint politics; today it's time to put aside the politics of chillidos, to show that without chillidos we are able to help people, to show that without chillidos we care about the real problems people have; and much more when we're behind a tragedy. On Thursday - the coincidences of life - on Thursday, the day on which seven years of this fatal accident are celebrated, our Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to vote yes, because our group understands that it is of justice. We want to close this folder without forgetting or failing to accompany the victims in everything we can help them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-22-CD220322.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mínguez. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is adjourned. It was eight and thirty minutes of the night.
