ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda, in the sense that the questions are discussed in accordance with the following order: items 30, 29, 28 and 31 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u2	This Presidency also submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to include as a new item of the Thursday sitting, before the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the request made in relation to a Member of Parliament, the requests for acknowledgment by the plenary of the House of the deliberation and final vote of the draft law adopting and extending certain measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, to deal with situations of social and economic vulnerability and for the economic and social recovery of the island of La Palma; of the draft law establishing a new system of contributions for self-employed or self-employed workers and improving the protection by cessation of activity; and of the draft law on economic sustainability measures in the field of transport, on grants and study aid, as well as measures for saving, energy efficiency and reducing the energy dependence on natural gas. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u3	We now begin with the debate to consider the proposed law of the Assembly of the Community of Madrid for the amendment of Law 38/2003 of 27 November, General of Grants; Law 9/2017 of 8 November, Public Sector Contracts; and Organic Law 1/2002 of 22 March, Regulator of the Law of Association, to combat anti-Semitism. That is why we are joined by Members of the Madrid Assembly in the rostrum, whom we welcome to the Congress of Deputies. We are also joined in presenting this initiative, and as an integral part of the delegation that will defend the proposal, two Members, whom I would also like to welcome. Without further ado, I will give you the floor to present the initiative. First of all, you have the word Mrs. Almudena Negro Konrad.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a 27 January 1945 when the world was horrified by the images that still remain fixed in the retinas of all those who love democracy and freedom. Nine hundred thousand Jews were exterminated in Auschwitz and another five million were exterminated in the rest of the camps. Hitler's NSDAP program, presented in 1920, talked about separating Jews from Aryan society, as well as abolishing all their rights and freedoms. Only a national comrade can be a citizen and only someone with German blood can be a citizen. Therefore, no Jew can be a citizen. This is what the National Socialists claimed. This political principle was accompanied by anti-Semitic propaganda that incited hatred and culminated in the racial laws of Nuremberg and in the extermination camps of the so-called 'final solution', of which, I am sure, we all abjure. It is the wish of all democrats that such dark chapters of mankind's history will never be repeated again. [[Applauds]] In this regard, the European Parliament adopted in 2019 a resolution condemning totalitarianism, communism and national socialism, which devastated Europe in the last 20th century. We reject the collective ideologies that seek to create a new man, bet on social engineering, promise an earthly paradise and always, unfailingly, end up adding to societies in poverty and misery, when not in crime. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we are witnessing a resurgence of this anti-Semitism in Europe. Most synagogues are surrounded by safety cords and anti-Semitic attacks multiply. The report Experiences and perceptions of anti-Semitism of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights points out that more than 30% of Jews residing in countries such as Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Spain, Denmark or Austria do not feel safe and want to emigrate. In our country, there are not a few municipalities in which motions have been adopted in the plenary that state that no Israeli company, entity, organization or product is recruited, or that it is related to the Jewish people. Sportsmen, filmmakers or entrepreneurs have seen their recruitment rejected. In Molins de Rei, Barcelona, the Israeli water polo team could not compete with the Spanish because it was prohibited by one of these hateful motions, called ELAI, which have been declared illegal by our courts on at least eighty-five occasions. In addition, we are noting that associations are being established in our country that, under supposed humanitarian principles, they are joining Jewish campaigns or transmitting modern anti-Semitism to society, associations that hold public money from all Spaniards. The International Alliance for the Memory of the Holocaust succeeded in a total of thirty-one countries, including Spain, adopting a practical definition of anti-Semitism in May 2016. In this sense, the following year the European Parliament presented a resolution against anti-Semitism by encouraging Members of national parliaments, such as you, and regional parliaments, as well as all political leaders - and I quote textually - to react to all forms and manifestations of anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism, according to the definition adopted by Spain, is a certain perception of Jews that can be expressed as hatred of them. In this sense, manifestations of anti-Semitism may include attacks on the State of Israel when it is conceived as a Jewish collectivity. Contemporary examples of anti-Semitism explicitly contemplated in The Holocaust Memory Alliance are observed in public life, in the media, in schools, in workplaces or in the religious sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, we must implement the declaration adopted by the Government of Spain in 2016, because the dehumanisation and demonisation and collectivist cosification contained in the initiatives to exclude Israel, its businesses, citizens and activities in our country, all they seek is to criminalise in a general way the collective Jew and the only Jewish State. Enough of the so-called Marcusian Repressive Tolerance of deep Marxist roots that serves some to paralyze violence and discrimination. In the Madrid Assembly the only group that opposed this initiative - what a surprise!- It was Podemos. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these intolerable behaviours in democracy cannot be financed with public money. We therefore ask you to amend paragraphs 2 and 5 of the General Subsidies Act, as well as articles 71.1, 72.2 and 73.3 of the Public Sector Contracts Act, as well as article 4, paragraphs 5 and 6, of the Organic Law Regulating the Law of Association. Ladies and gentlemen, against those who speak of a global problem of discrimination, the Holocaust and anti-Semitism are a problem of discrimination with enough entity to deserve a legislative change in our legal order without mixing other issues. Nazism - you know - was just one of the manifestations of anti-Semitism and anti-Semitism preceded national socialism. That is why we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, at the headquarters of the national office, to explicitly include in the applicable Spanish legislation the prohibition of hiring or obtaining the status of beneficiary of public aid or of acting as a partner for any kind of entity involved in discriminatory practices linked to this repugnant anti-Semitism. Ladies and gentlemen, hatred and discrimination with our money is not. Shalom. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Black. Secondly, and also to present the initiative, he has the word don Pablo Gutiérrez de Cabiedes Hidalgo de Caviedes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, fifty-nine municipalities in Podemos have recently dedicated themselves to declaring their municipalities free of Israeli apartheid. Virtually all of these resolutions have already been annulled, obviously, by the courts for carrying out sectarian, xenophobic, illegal and unconstitutional discrimination. It is a campaign of genuine signaling, harassment and intimidation against any person or entity that is Israeli or related to the Jewish State: artists, shops and events. Ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't for the hatred behind this, it would be really ridiculous. They have undertaken it against Joaquín Sabina, for his direct and repeated complicity with apartheid, against the San Sebastián Film Festival, against the Primavera Sound and against Mayumana, the group that gives concerts with drums. It is obvious that behind these free spaces of Jewish and Israeli presence is the same discourse, the same attitudes of national socialism, and the same paraphernalia, symbolism of Nazi Germany in the 1930s of the Juden Frei. That is why the proposal brought to Congress by the Madrid Assembly is going to believe or not to really believe in the non-discrimination of article 14 for all the reasons that are stated there, ladies and gentlemen, and to prove that the violence that is never exasceptable and is never justifiable, the sufferer suffers it and the cause that causes it. [[Applauds]] We hope that this House will take into consideration the proposal brought forward by the Assembly and that it will adopt it after its handling, with respect always on the part of VOX, of course, to national sovereignty, the truth, religious freedom, Catholics and Christians as well and their convictions, which could never be incompatible with this law. In the Parliament of Madrid, Podemos voted against, and Podemos 2, that is, More Madrid, and the PSOE abstained. Ladies and gentlemen, reproducing this action here would mean that they again distinguish between good violence and bad violence, which they hide and even justify, when they do not promote or directly carry out it; that they differentiate between victims to be spoken of and victims to be despised, and that they pretend to tell others who, and when, can vex, beat, kidnap and even kill, and that there are criminals who have justification and others who do not. And they do so in this area with discrimination and harassment that they call BDS, Boycott, Disinvestments and Sanctions, which they carry out from the institutions. To this end, they have created and financed with public money a whole network of entities and associations - those parallel structures of resistance defended by Errejón, our former colleague in the Assembly - that seek directly to discriminate, punish and criminalize individuals and groups of persons solely for their religion, Jewish or Israeli status or for their mere relationship with them. [[Applauds]] These attacks and this discrimination are a very clear sign of disintolerance, racism, discrimination, xenophobia and incitement to hatred, and it is nothing new, ladies and gentlemen, because unfortunately some have been doing so for some time and continue to do so today. Whoever was Councillor of Podemos, Now Madrid, wrote the following: 'Friends, @lulm reads to us from the State of Israel, that it is not known why it needs so much space if each person occupies a lot of ash'. [[shows a tweet]] On the same day he mocked the girls raped by Alcàsser and victims of terrorism saying: 'How would you get five million Jews in 600? [[shows another tweet]] In the ashtray. He also said: 'They had to close the cemetery of Alcàsser's girls so that Irene Villa would not go for spare parts'. This is what we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. And as you very possibly think or say that this gentleman already resigns or has made him resign for his entrepreneurial comments, we have the current spokesman of More Madrid who tells us: 'Israel has the right to defend itself from what?' [[shows another tweet]] We are talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, and that some of you have a serious problem with anti-Semitism as, by the way, Giorgia Meloni, winner of the Italian elections these days, has shown. To avoid these actions, Spain signed the anti-Semitism agreement established internationally by IHRA, the international institution of greatest projection and prestige, which is composed of thirty-one countries, among others, by Spain. This bill makes Spain take the necessary legislative action to which it has committed itself. The then Prime Vice-President of the Government, Carmen Calvo, endorsed this statement and the Socialist Government has not taken any legislative action to implement that commitment. Specifically, for this action to be effective, what we propose is the reform of the Law on State Contracts, the Law on Grants and the Law on Associations, so that, of course, public money, aid, contracts and public subsidies do not benefit the entities that carry out these new forms of odious discrimination such as the BDS. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the list of excuses to legitimise these harassments and not to support this initiative is already well known, mainly that the BDS and that these spaces free of apartheid - curiously free of apartheid, they say - do not act against people, but against a state, curiously only that of Israel, which is not true because we have already found that they also harass and discriminate against people. What poor Joaquín Sabina will have done, that the truth is that it is unfacile!Of course, then they do not promote against the other states or entities an action that is minimally similar to this one, to which they come, and they do not do so these days with Palestine or Iran to pronounce on terrorism, for example, which is suffering the Israelis. For example, Mr Errejón or Podemos do not have that time or itch, as they do not have it for Christianphobia or to condemn or pronounce, at least in something, on the attacks and murders suffered by Christians in the world. [[Applauds]] With the repression and murders of women by the Ayatollahs have been quiet and quiet for a while and it has cost them a pain to pronounce against countries like Iran, which are exquisite in terms of what you call gender, as is known to all. The European Day of the Victims of Stalinism and Nazism has recently been celebrated. In conclusion, therefore, to those who are seeing Nazis everywhere and around every corner, we say two things: one, that they do not carry out actions identical to those of national socialism and that they adopt a law in this regard, and two, that there are two ideologies that have been expressly condemned by Europe for being gravely contrary to freedoms, rights, human dignity and the rule of law: communism and national socialism. Well, neither in this House nor in Madrid are there any Nazis nor any Nazi party, but yes, curiously, communists, Leninists and Stalinists with prime actions sisters of the Nazis. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u7	Thank you, Mr Gutiérrez de Cabiedes. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to greet the representatives of the Madrid Assembly who have just spoken and also those who are accompanying us from the guest gallery, and to thank the Autonomous House for its initiative because from it we are given the opportunity to debate and vote here at the plenary session of Congress, a matter of importance. In addition, it is an issue which, given the detailed and broad preamble accompanying the proposal for a law, I believe is well thought out, and which is why I will be voting in favour of taking it into consideration so that the General Courts can deal with the amendment of different laws and thus contribute to the fight against anti-Semitism. There is rampant anti-Semitism, French President Emmanuel Macron warned a few weeks ago on the anniversary of the Winter Velodrome raid in Paris, organized in July 1942. Eighty years have passed since then, since those terrible events in the framework of a Holocaust that can never be forgotten or yielded to those who want to deny it; humanity owes it to the millions and millions of victims of barbarism and persecution against Jews and other ethnic groups. Ladies and gentlemen, as the autonomous Members who have preceded me in this rostrum have explained, there is disturbing evidence that the world is going back dangerously to the darkest and darkest part of the tunnel of time. In many parts of the world, also in Europe, attacks, vandalism, incidents and threats against synagogues, centres of worship, monuments and memorial sites are repeated, as well as an escalation in manifestations of hatred and contempt for Jews. In Spain, our forces and security forces and the courts strive to pursue crimes, with social networks and new communication technologies as the epicenter of hate speech, misinformation and propaganda. Moreover, in a variant that affects the democratic institutions of our country, political agreements are reiterated in which, either by action or by omission, discrimination against minorities is promoted, in this case of the Jew, and not only in Madrid, as can be deduced from the parliamentary origin of this initiative, but also in other communities. Even in Asturias, my autonomous community of origin, we find signs of lukewarmness against those who promote judeophobia campaigns. In Gijón, the largest resident and population of the region, the Plenary of its City Council adopted, in January 2016, a declaration of the city as a free space of Israeli apartheid, meeting the objectives of the boycott, disinvestment and sanctions movement, organized worldwide by the so-called Palestinian National Committee. [[BDS]] So unfortunate and disastrous a declaration came forward not only because of the impulse of several municipal groups, but also because of the waste and lack of attention of others, hence the relevance of being alert and expressing oneself without hesitation, abstention or pretexts in the face of all proposals with anti-Semitic dyes contrary to our Constitution and international law. By the way, in time a court considered that the Gijonese municipal declaration lacked legal effect compared to those administered and, in fact, less than a year after that episode had already been played with all normality and with absolute respect to the visiting team in El Molinón an official match between the Spanish and Israeli football teams. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, almost a hundred Spanish municipalities have joined in recent years campaigns against Israel with anti-Semitic declarations and initiatives. Relatively often the presence in Spain of sports teams or artistic groups is accompanied by aberrant boycott attempts, which in practice discourages potential spectators, hinders the holding of competitions, deters the hiring of artists and cultural shows or seeks to harm commercial relations that are excellent. However, I repeat, there are those who influence anti-Semitism. I will point out as striking that Castrillo Mota de Judíos, a small bourgeois town, has suffered several attacks of unequivocal anti-Semitic authorship after having changed its name in 2015. There have been seven vandal attacks since the place ceased to be called Castrillo Matajudíos. As has already been pointed out, unfortunately there are signs of anti-Semitism, and hence the legislative changes proposed by the Madrid Community Assembly to combat them are relevant. In this connection, it should be stressed that article 14 of the Spanish Constitution establishes the equality of all Spaniards before the law, without discrimination on the grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. It is therefore unacceptable that there should be facts contrary to this sacrosanct mandate of the second chapter, which our Constitution devotes to rights and freedoms, and, of course, it is equally unacceptable that public funds and resources should be used to subsidize and support organizations whose modus operandi is a patent derived from anti-Semitism, as demonstrated by their history and the facts they promote. In Spain, we must be inflexible in the face of the perverse sowing of hate crimes, even more so when they are perpetrated under the auspices of institutions and public entities of all ranks, which become necessary collaborators, very often exceeding themselves in their competences, as the courts of justice unequivocally determine. In short, I agree with the proposal that comes from the Assembly of the Community of Madrid to amend the laws governing subsidies and public contracts, in order to disqualify those entities that carry out discriminatory practices in Spain. I shall therefore vote in favour of the inclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u10	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing an initiative, as has been said, to amend the law on contracts and subsidies in order to collect prohibitions against those who engage in discriminatory or anti-Semitic practices or, in a more comprehensive way, these involve hate speech and discrimination, which are precisely those who encourage, promote and incite hatred, hostility, discrimination or violence against a particular group or person of that group on racist, anti-Semitic grounds, others relating to ideology, religion, beliefs, family status, membership of its members to ethnicity, race or nation, their national origin, sex, orientation or sexual identity or on grounds of gender, disease or disability, taxonomy or classification of hate speech and discrimination, ladies and gentlemen, certainly broad and which we already know in our order, which expressly refers to anti-Semitism as a kind of gender. This is found in the Penal Code, in its article 510, and in the recently adopted Act No. 15/2022 last July, comprehensive for the fight against equal treatment and non-discrimination, which establishes, inter alia, the nullity of full rights in the provisions, acts and clauses of natural or legal persons, private or public, against equal treatment and non-discrimination. Lastly, article 37 also provides that public administrations shall not subsidize or provide aid to natural or legal persons punished by a final administrative decision for any of the offences qualified by law or having activities or purposes which serve, encourage or tolerate practices qualified as breaches of the rule, and similar regulation is found for public procurement. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the State's legal system with the adoption of the above-mentioned Law 15/2022 has taken an important step forward in the direction outlined in the initiative that we are discussing and that we will support in its consideration in order to incorporate in the Public Sector Contracts Act a new prohibition to hire convicted persons by a final sentence for hate crimes or discrimination offences or sanctioned by a final decision or sentence for infringement of the provisions of the above-mentioned Law 15/2022, last July, as well as to incorporate in the General Subsidies Act similar provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, specifically in relation to anti-Semitism, I would like to remind you that it is not something past, but something latent and persistent in European societies, along with many other forms of discrimination and rejection of different things and different things: racism, xenophobia, homophobia, Roma, Muslims. There has been and continues to be work against anti-Semitism, but we must continue to do so for its eradication and against any other form of discrimination, being careful, that is, regarding the misuse of anti-discrimination laws and hate speech to prevent manifestations of freedom of expression, as the European Court of Human Rights points out, because opposing Israeli State policies cannot be considered anti-Semitic when they are contrary to human rights or non-compliance with international law, as similar criticisms directed against any other country, as this would not be prejudice, hostility or violence against Jewish people because they are Jewish or against Jewish institutions because they are Jewish. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the conflict between freedom of expression and the right not to be discriminated against, as the European Court of Human Rights points out, the context in which criticism is being made must be taken into account. I would like to conclude by recalling an exceptional and very beautiful case starring my city, Vitoria-Gasteiz, in words of which was added cultural of the Embassy of Israel. As you know, on 27 June 1642 the aljama of Vitoria-Gasteiz, which was the largest in the north of Castile, before starting exile to France and the Kingdom of Navarre made the last decision to give to the city its cemetery, under the commitment that it would never be plowed out of respect for the peace of its dead. Well, on the same day and month, four hundred years later, in 1952, the president of the Israeli Consistory in Bayona, France, who considered himself heir to that exile that mostly took the way from France, freed the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz from the commitment to these words: 'For years you have maintained respect for our dead; therefore receive our gratitude and the blessing of our God. ' Today the place remains unbuilt, it is a public park with its historical name, Judimendi, the Mount of the Jews, with a work of the Israeli sculptor Yael Artsi entitled "Convivence", in stone extracted from the quarries of Jerusalem, in memory of the stay of the Jews in the city and as a symbol of the reunion between cultures, where they pray a word of the prophet Isaiah in Basque, Hebrew and Spanish that they say: 'And they will turn their swords into plowshares and their spears into prunes; they will not lift up sword nation against nation nor will they rehearse for war'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u12	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to greet the people who are accompanying us today in the rostrum, fellow Members of the House, organisations and activists who are working for the defence of equality. We must bear in mind that Jewish communities have contributed to Europe's political, economic, scientific and cultural development for over two millennia. They are a fundamental part of the identity of our continent, a Europe founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, law and respect for human rights, including the rights of those who belong to minorities, and a European Union founded to live in peace and democracy after the wars provoked by nationalist dictatorships, which led to the persecution of Jews and the terrible Holocaust. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are discussing today in this Chamber, on the return of the problem of anti-Semitism, a specific form of intolerance, disrespect, contempt, rejection and denial of the Jewish reality, which refers to behaviors ranging from stigmatization, segregation, discrimination, hostility, violence and hate crimes to the total extermination that we saw in the Holocaust. The European Union itself has recently adopted the anti-Semitism strategy for the period 2021-2030, which has three pillars: prevention and combating all forms of anti-Semitism, protection and support of Jewish life in the European Union, and the teaching, research and memory of the Holocaust. It establishes the creation of instruments, policy designs, monitoring, training and resources, and has been developed with the participation of Jewish communities and NGOs working against anti-Semitism. For this reason, in Citizens we consider the draft law that we are debating today, which comes from the Madrid Assembly, where it was recently adopted, to be relevant. It is more than pertinent and points in a direction in which we must all walk together: to end discrimination against minorities and hate speech. It is a law that seeks to establish a change in existing legislation that prevents public aid, contracts or subsidies from being granted or received in entities that engage in discriminatory practices on grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other social circumstance, with particular emphasis on anti-Semitism. But let us say this in this House and that we are currently avoiding it seems totally unrecognizable to me, because how are we going to support a rule of law that defends the equality of all citizens to those entities that are doing discriminatory practices? How should we act? Certainly, clearly, it is preventing you, because we have to block every speech of hatred, every attack of hatred, and in that we must not contribute a bit, ladies and gentlemen. The current legislation is not entirely clear, because it says that associations that promote hatred and discrimination are expressly prohibited, but it is not clear whether other entities or entities that are not strictly associations and may be involved in such conduct can do so. And, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that those who want to make speeches and hate attacks against Jewish people, as well as against other collectives, know how to organize themselves differently. Therefore, on many occasions they are intelligent and do so with entangled people to receive help and to be able to continue performing their violent actions. It is therefore entirely relevant and in line with the reality that we are talking about this regulation in this House today. We understand that it is logical that the same cases of disqualification when receiving subsidies also affect this type of body and entity that they want to promote discriminatory behaviour and behaviour. In Citizens we have always defended, and we will continue to do so, the equality of all people, regardless of race, sex, religion, opinion or any other condition, and we have demonstrated it. We will always be defenders of minorities who are persecuted and oppressed by such discriminatory acts. History, ladies and gentlemen, has shown us what hate speech and discrimination can lead us to. We need to be strong when it comes to penalizing and judging those associations, entities and entities that promote hate speech. The International Alliance for Holocaust Remembrance, to which Spain joined in 2008, has already managed to have thirty-one countries adopt the practical definition of anti-Semitism in 2016. This is hatred of Jews, but the physical and rhetorical manifestations of anti-Semitism are directed at Jewish and non-Jewish people. In the guest gallery is my colleague Esteban Ibarra, since together we have worked hard in the fight against discrimination, and since he has not suffered reprisals and attacks just for defending the equality of Jewish people! Therefore, I am aware of those institutions, entities, associations and people who are only attacked by their defense. Europe - we have already said - was clear in its 2021-2030 strategy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the Socialist Party, what I am asking you to do is to implement that strategy, because we still do not have an institutionally valid interlocutor, there is still an action plan with which we are actually implementing that strategy to which we must implement. In the end, we in Citizens are in favour of this proposal from the Madrid Assembly, and we also want no one, absolutely no one, in the process of amendments, to diminish the revulsion and the defence of this regulation. We cannot afford any entity that promotes practices of hatred or discrimination against any minority. It is impossible for them to receive and benefit from public aid. We are therefore very much in favour of blocking this discriminatory practice. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u14	'I want to hit Jorge Javier's faggot. ' I repeat: 'I want to hit Jorge Javier's faggot. ' This will be heard this weekend at the festival or coven that organises VOX because they have invited a rapper who sings this. [[Rumors]] They have invited someone who in one of their subjects reproduces the speech of a neo-Nazi leader. And, in addition, the DENAES Foundation, created in 2006 by Santi Abascal, is advertising a book that exalts the Blue Division, which went to fight with the Nazis to defend precisely the opposite of what they present today. Moreover, the deputy spokesman of VOX at the Madrid Assembly, Henríquez de Luna - how many people of VOX have the compound name; I believe that Spain that is early is called Gómez, Pérez, Martínez, López, but these so composed names only have them, in exclusive, VOX -... [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u16	This spokesman, Henríquez de Luna, legitimized the march of the Blue Division. There are only three examples of the shame and cynicism of this outdated far right. And I say this because of the boldness of presenting this: that those who discriminate for various reasons will not be eligible for subsidies. Well, hey, you're promoting hate, you're promoting discrimination. Did VOX really vote for this in the Madrid Assembly? Are you really going to vote for this VOX? It will be a note: VOX votes in favour of the withdrawal of the subsidies. As it promotes discrimination and incites hatred, we will remove the subsidies. Category, which the Valencians say. I'll vote for it. VOX incites violence, takes a guy who is going to say that they hit Jorge Javier; VOX promotes anti-Semitism with the Blue Division - we have already said it - and VOX launches hate messages against unaccompanied minors, who are responsible for all crimes. So let's approve this and see if we take VOX off that tack feeds off all the mounds, promoting hatred against all the good people. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u17	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u18	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I believe that it is first of all up to us to welcome the representatives of the Assembly of the Community of Madrid, both the delegation and those who find themselves on the agenda item on this legislative initiative process coming from the Assembly of the Community of Madrid. It is also a good way to start the processing of laws that these come with the endorsement of the different autonomous parliaments. This amendment to the Public Sector Contracts Act, the Subsidies Act and the Organic Law on the Right of Association is, in fact, aimed at correcting what has been stated here in relation to some of the dysfunctions, such as the question of whether it only affects the prohibition on entities of an associative nature and, therefore, extending it to other entities and other entities, as well as some issues relating to the prohibition on recruitment in the right of association. The truth is that the underlying content of the initiative is an approach that we can share, although I have to tell you that the exhibition that has been made in second place is difficult for us to share, because, in short, this harassment and toppling of Podemos and More Country, which could even share, I think it does not contribute anything to the content of the resolution, because, as previously pointed out, as regards certain hate speech or certain practices, sometimes on the edge of the impossible, VOX is also a specialist in doing so. But, in short, we share the substance and believe that it is necessary to take account of it, to move forward and to process this amendment of laws, which correspond to the General Courts and which, like so many entities that also accompany us, help us to look much more at the position from which we should never move: the memory of the Holocaust, to deal with anti-Semitism, in short, to separate the criticisms that occur to the State of Israel with the reality of what really is anti-Semitism. We understand that this initiative can provide some solutions to this issue. Finally, it is also of particular interest to point out that, without any doubt, this is one of the things that public authorities can do. In the face of these previously denounced realities, what is in the hands of the public authorities? Obviously, it is in your hands to do pedagogy, to set an example, but also to make legal changes so as not to give any kind of coverage to these actions. In short, we're talking about grants, and some of us are gonna say we're talking about public money. But when you say public money, you have to say what is public money but what is citizens' money too. And in a democratic society like ours, in a society that bets on equality, on non-discrimination, it cannot or should not be placed in the head of anyone - if you so understand it as public money, as money of citizens - that public money or money of citizens will stop at these actions, which in no case do we share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia en Comuno, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u20	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today there is a debate in this House on an initiative brought by the Madrid Assembly, representing all Madridns and Madridns, and first of all I think it should be stressed that it draws attention to the issue in question. The usual thing in this House, when it is Chambers of the autonomic sphere that bring initiatives, is to bring elements that reflect the concern, indignation, widespread consensus and attention of all their societies. There are Chambers that have brought different elements that are absolutely central to autonomous policy in each of their societies, and that is why, first of all, the attention that, with the Madrid Community having the problems that it has, which are many, the first and only initiative that the Madrid Assembly brings to this House does not deal with solving, for example, the more than 1900 less teachers with whom Madrid education has begun this academic year, or does not deal, for example, with the absolute collapse of the Madrid care system, or does not, speaking of human rights, with the unacceptable situation that occurs in the Royal Cañada, with more than two years in which children, girls, women, the elderly, human beings - Gypsies, many of them, of course, another minority - are suffering an absolutely intolerable situation. [[Applauds]] And I say this unfortunately, because, obviously, as far as this initiative is concerned, it seems that apart from the Madrid legislature, it matters more in the area of human rights what some chancellery suggests, some embassy than the problems that really concern Madridns and Madridns. By the way - and I will now come to this - gentlemen of the People's Party and VOX, if you are so concerned about anti-Semitism, how can you continue to allow a Blue Division street to exist in the Community of Madrid? You have to explain it to me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] And, look, what is this initiative about? Do you want to talk to us about the excruciating, condemnable, deeply indignant anti-Semitism? Do you want to talk to us about other persecutions? By the way, it draws attention to those who speak of anti-Semitism but not of anti-Gyptanism or Islamophobia. In short, does this initiative to defend the rights and freedoms of cultural or religious minorities want to speak to us, or does this initiative speak, in addition - and I have to say - perversely, within the framework of anti-Semitism, of the explicit will to censor NGOs and administrations that, in the hands of Palestinian civil society, propose that, as was done against apartheid in South Africa, sanctions be imposed against a regime that is an apartheid regime? I don't say it, Amnesty International says it, Human Rights Watch says it, as is Israel's against the Palestinian civilian population. That is what this initiative is talking about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] And, therefore, to talk about sanctions to Israel, as sanctions are being promoted to other States. They can be perfectly promoted - if Israel violates human rights, as it does in fact systematically - sanctions from civil society, as is being done. And look at the paradox: in the name of human rights, you are precisely proposing to cut and curb funding to most NGOs in this country that devote their day-to-day response, to work to address the human rights violations of children, women and the elderly in Palestinian territories. [[Applauds]] Look at the paradox of what this really says. You don't talk about anti-Semitism, you don't worry about anti-Semitism, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, who spent two minutes making a Catalan joke while talking about another speaker; that worries you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Applauds]] And, look, in addition to revealing this in its crudeness, I think the terms are misused. If you use anti-Semitism, it must be said that, of course, the Jewish people are a Semitic people but also that the Palestinian people and other peoples of the Middle East are Semitic peoples. If, on the contrary, you want us to open the debate on anti-Zionism, as you know, this is a movement - a very different thing - that questions different policies of the State of Israel. So let's talk about what you have to talk about, and, as I say, don't lean perversely on anti-Zionism. However, in our parliamentary group they will not find either one or the other. On the contrary, in our parliamentary group they are going to find a supporter of peace, of dialogue, of making every effort for a dialogue outing in the Middle East and in the conflict in historical Palestine between Israel and Palestine; indeed, a territory where - not as in the Iberian peninsula, where we know that we have the stain of anti-Semitism - for many years they lived perfectly in peace Jews and Palestinians, Arabs and Christians. In any case, what they are going to find in our parliamentary group is not the questioner of the State of Israel, but the caller of the human rights of the Jews, as well as the rest of the peoples, and therefore of the Palestinians living in historic Palestine today. No one in his or her right mind can but repudiate anti-Semitism. We come from a historical tradition with a fundamental part of people of Hebrew culture; I don't have to list Marx, Engels or Emma Goldman. You speak, moreover, with a parliamentary group that is strictly a defender of Hebrew culture, but like any human lover, social, cultural or scientific advances, that can only recognize and be moved by the legacy of so many and so many Jews, many of them, by the way, coming from here, from Sepharad, as Baruch Spinoza, Sigmund Freud or Primo Levi, who, by the way, was also of Sephardic origin and who, if he saw what is happening today in the occupied Palestinian territories, would also say whether this is a man. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, that is what this initiative is about. They are not concerned about anti-Semitism, that is not the issue. And you cannot tell us that Israeli Jews, such as historian Ilan Pappé, today exiled outside Israel, or NormanFinkelstein, today exiled also outside Israel and son of surviving Holocaust parents, or the ex-military of Breaking the Silence, when every day Israeli ex-military condemn and denounce the human rights violation against the Palestinian people, are anti-Semitic. So let us work and work for a dialogue solution to the conflict between Israel and Palestine, and Salam and Shalom. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Assembly of the Community of Madrid, welcome. A preview, as you like to say to a famous Member of Parliament here: Mr Baldoví, do not try any harder, we already know that you dance very well; in fact, you dance 'other well', but we will not hire you for the 22nd, that we already have high-level figures, not like you. [[laughter and applause]] We are discussing today the consideration of a proposal for a law that deals with the amendment of three state laws, the General of Grants, the Law on Public Sector Contracts and the Organic Law Regulating the Right of Association, and it does so for the purpose of combating anti-Semitism, although it is clarified in the initiative that in this case it is specifically sought to protect those who profess the Jewish religion and not other ethnic groups or beliefs that could also be included in the concept of Semitism, which is somewhat broader. In the preamble, in particular, the aim is to bring about a change in legislation so that public aid, contracts or subsidies may not be available to entities which carry out discriminatory practices on grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, belief and, in particular, stress 'on anti-Semitic grounds' in order to determine clearly the loss of opportunities when such a situation occurs. It is clear that our parliamentary group, as the autonomous deputy Pablo Gutiérrez de Cabiedes has already put forward here, will support the consideration of this initiative because it is of justice. The serious attacks that have been suffered in Spain by those who profess the Jewish religion, as well as the Christians, by phylotterrorist groups linked to leftism are chased by supporters who have representation in public institutions, without going any further in this very House, through extreme leftism of socialists and ultra leftism of communists. [[Applauds]] That is why measures must be taken to curb them. We have heard you say here many excuses for not deciding clearly to support this initiative, but, ladies and gentlemen, works are love and not good reasons. It is works that you leave in a number of municipalities of Spain through the famous network of municipalities ELAI, free spaces of Israeli apartheid, all of which are governed by parties of front populist court and under whose umbrellas there have been and there are actions as disgusting as conjures to not engage with any companies, products, entities or organizations of Israeli origin or with Jewish links because of the simple fact of being so; or to apply to everything that smells of Jewish the so-called politics or culture of cancellation, that is, canceling contracts with theatre companies, lecturers, filmmakers, actors or Israeli companies that are in progress, being the most serious example that happened in Cadiz, in September 2018, when the communist mayor of that city, known as the Kichi, took precedence of his office as mayor to promote this racist act and the ruthless attack that, using the power of the City of Molins de Rei, in Barcelona, his mayor perpetuated in November 2018 against a group of women youths in opposition to the Spanish party, that some officials in this dispute prevent these parties. [[Applauds]] The party had to play elsewhere and behind closed doors, as if the girls were stinking. Faced with this, it should also be remembered that my parliamentary group defended last week in the Constitutional Commission a PNL calling for greater protection for the right of religious freedom of Spain, a PNL that defended our colleague and deputy José María Sánchez and that was rejected in this House by the leftist groups. The result serves as a demonstration and confirmation of the continued belligerence of leftism in the twenty-first century towards a fundamental freedom for the support of any democratic system such as religious freedom. [[Applauds]] Works are love and not good reasons, I told them. More works. According to the report prepared by the Observatory for Religious Freedom and Consciousness, during 2020, attacks on the right to religious freedom in Spain increased by 37% over the previous year, especially against the Catholic religion. According to the observatory, the breakdown by type of attacks would be as follows: two cases of direct physical aggression against Catholic believers for being so; thirty attacks on Catholic places of worship; twelve harassments against Catholic believers for being so; fifty-seven scorns against Catholic beliefs and believers; 121 cases of belligerent secularism with marginalization from the religion of the public sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully: two out of three acts of violence against hatred Fidei in Spain suffered by a Catholic in 2020. Not only are the Jews attacked in Spain, in Europe and in the world, but also Christians, and we Christians are the ones who suffer the most martyrdom all over the world. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when this initiative is taken into consideration, we will work to ensure that the right to religious freedom is guaranteed also for Christians and we will improve this initiative with amendments. In short, ladies and gentlemen, rather than collectivizing society as leftism does by fabricating false offenses to which to water with public money, it is necessary to protect those who are real victims of attacks that they pay with their lives. On this path you will always find VOX and, very soon, you will see how it is also decided in Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Ruiz. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Marcos Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u24	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, allow me to greet the ladies and gentlemen who have come to this House today as a public representing the civil society that has promoted this initiative, and also our fellow Members of the Madrid Assembly. All of you are very welcome to the seat of national sovereignty, which is debating an initiative today that should be adopted unanimously. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, when the leadership of my group informed me that I was going to have the privilege of defending this initiative of the Madrid Assembly against anti-Semitism today, I remembered the first leader I had in the years of journalism, I remembered him because he was a Jew and was so proud of his Jewish mother as of his indestructible leftism. That journalist was one of those Europeans and Spaniards born in the 1940s who knew the tragedy of the Shoah, which led them to debut their youth by collaborating in a kibbutz. You know what? That first chief of mine would have been ashamed to hear what some of his left or extreme left lordships have said here today; to listen to some and to hear the silence of others, because he, besides being proud of himself as a Jew and leftist, was a complete man; serious and complete. As you were serious and thorough, Mr Baldoví, you would not have understood your excuses to avoid clear support against anti-Semitism. Less would have understood Mr. Gómez-Reino's trappings to avoid a clear condemnation of anti-Semitism - by the way, Mr. Gómez-Reino, for what Mr. Baldoví says, you almost certainly are from VOX, wouldn't you? And even less would have understood the silence of other parliamentary groups, partners and collaborators of the government coalition. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we are certain that you will not be acting as fellow Members of Mr Sánchez's Frankenstein this time. Believe me, we are glad that you have taken up the position you held at the beginning of the process of this initiative in the Madrid Assembly and forget the unfortunate abstention with which you were wrong at the end. They will honor with their vote in favour of Senator Pulido, a socialist insignia, who fought hard in the early 20th century for the cause of the Sephardics, for religious freedom in Spain and against anti-Semitism. And they will also honour Golda Meir, Labour, Prime Minister between 1969 and 1974, the first lady of iron and then protector in the field of the Socialist International of a very young Felipe González. Golda Meir - like President Zelenski - was born in Ukraine, you will remember that when Zelenski addressed the Knesset he remembered a very famous appointment of his: We intend to remain alive, our neighbors want to see us dead; it is not a question that leaves much room for compromise. [[Applauds]] And Zelenski added: I don't need to convince them of how intertwined our stories are. Ukrainian and Jewish stories in the past and today, in this terrible time, we are in different countries and in completely different conditions, but the threat is the same, both for us and for you: the total destruction of a people, of the State of that people, of their culture and even of names, be it Ukraine or Israel. Members of the Sanchez Government, understand how hard it would be for the PSOE to buy all its damaged anti-Semitic goods; abstaining, as they did in the Madrid Assembly, would be the same as forgetting that it was a socialist government that fortunately established diplomatic relations with Israel. To abstain would be to cancel from the memory of the PSOE illustrious socialists; just like my former boss, Mr Borrell, who also premiered his youth in a kibbutz. It would refrain from forgetting socialists as illustrious during the transition as the Múgica or Baron, both determined admirers of the Jewish National Home, which is today the State of Israel. For anti-Semitism, today, lords of some lefts, hides under the cloak of anti-Zionism and the denial of the existence of the State of Israel. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative should be unanimously adopted in compliance with the EU's anti-Semitism strategy. Remember that next month will be one year after the European Commission's approval of this strategy through a communication from the Commission. I will read you what it says: The Commission invites the EU institutions, the Member States, international organisations, all civil society actors and the citizenry as a whole to commit to a future free of anti-Semitism in the EU and the rest of the world. And that is why - the Commission adds - Member States are encouraged to develop national anti-Semitism strategies by the end of 2022 - i.e. now - or to include national measures to combat anti-Semitism. That, precisely that and nothing more than that defends the proposed law that we are debating today. Leanla, we are still in time for the vote to adopt such a reasonable proposal unanimously from the House. Ladies and gentlemen, unanimous approval would be common sense because, as the EU strategy says, anti-Semitism is incompatible with the essential values of Europe, it poses not only a threat to Jewish communities and their lives, but also to an open and diverse society, to democracy and to the European way of life. The Commission adds: The European Union is determined to put an end to it. I ask you to be European and to vote unanimously on this initiative. I'm done, President. As this initiative comes from Madrid, I would like to conclude with an appointment of a public intervention that took place in Madrid on the Day of the Holocaust Memorial of 2010. It has rained a little - because here it rains very little - but the appointment remains perfectly valid and current. The memory of the Holocaust is a memory of the present because in it is founded the democratic political culture, which through the memory of the tragedies caused by totalitarianism reinforces its conviction that freedom is a good that needs to be defended. He let the ingenuity of his lordships remember who uttered such fine words. Jatimá tova, happy day of Yom Kippur, guest gentlemen. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. For the Socialist Group, Mr González Caballero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u26	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to greet civil society, regional deputies, the representation of the Jewish community that accompanies us today and also the entire Jewish community on the most sacred day of this people, Yom Kippur. Gmarjativá tova. Let us be sealed in the book of life. The Socialist Parliamentary Group salutes them and shows their firm and constant commitment in their history to open societies, freedom and rejection of any kind of anti-Semitism. [[Applauds]] What is being debated in this House today is whether we are dealing with a bill whose initial objective is to combat hate crimes. It is an initiative that this group is willing to study, its objective is laudable and our purpose will be to enrich it to be an effective tool for combating anti-Semitism, guaranteeing the rights of freedom of expression. As the proposal rightly says, anti-Semitism must not be confused with legitimate criticism of the action of a government like Israel. This is a proposal for a law of the Madrid Assembly before the Congress of Deputies. And I understand that the autonomous Members who have preceded me want to take the colors out of their national parliamentary groups, both the People's Party and the VOX Group. Mr Gutiérrez de Cabiedes was speaking of a VOX 1 and a VOX 2, and here it is clearly visible. The regional deputy, from VOX 1, talks about fighting anti-Semitism; for here his party colleagues, the VOX 2, want to eliminate the crime of hate for anti-Semitic reasons, as they proposed in the Children's Act. [[Applauds]] The regional deputy of the People's Party talks about eliminating subsidies to those who discriminate, but here in Congress her party rejects the Zerolo law, which prevents subsidies from being made available to those who discriminate by racism. [[Applauds]] Without a doubt, pure coherence; pure coherence, ladies and gentlemen. In my group we recognize the problem and do not relativize it, nor do we relativize it after some unfortunate speeches that have been heard here today. European societies are experiencing a worrying wave of anti-Semitism, from painting in synagogues to campaigns of harassment on social networks. The increase in anti-Semitic actions throughout Europe has alerted our democracies, leading to the creation by the Commission of the European Anti-Semitism Strategy or, in the case of Spain, with the creation by the Government of Pedro Sánchez of the Action Plan to combat hate crimes, an observatory that sheds worrying data on the increase of crimes against minorities. It is not unusual, Your Honor, that these unfortunate events increase since the eruption of extreme right-wing movements and the advance of the memory of Nazi barbarism. Memory is the mirror of what we are as a people. Historian Toni Lluch nosalarta that the memory of the Jewish genocide does not concern one people, but the whole of humanity, and that, in taking charge of our terrible past, we transform the millions of victims of the Nazis into a wall against the repetition of horror, of any horror caused by hatred of a people or minority, whether this Jew, Muslim, gypsy or any other. The Europe of freedoms, rich and culturally diverse, respectful of diversity, will prevail as long as we remember the memory of the Holocaust. [[Applauds]] A memory that is the heritage of all European democrats and that differentiates us from those false patriots who using amnesia repair the figure of collaborationist Mussolini, as the president of Italy does today. A memory that warns us against the new protocols of the brothers of Zion, of the new conspiracies that, at the stroke of fake news, are promoted worldwide by the extreme global right. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of intolerance, the Socialists and the Socialists are never going to shut up. As the socialist Enrique Múgica Herzog taught us, democracy is not silence. We will not silence our voice in the face of any genocide; we will not keep a selective silence in the face of any violation of human rights, wherever and by any State; we will not silence in the memory of the barbarity committed against the Jewish people, in the face of those who want to forget it; we will not silence in the face of any act of racism and intolerance suffered by any citizen because of his racial, ethnic, national or religious origin, alligating that we will not silence or impose an already long silence on the victims of Francoism; we will not silence in the memory, nor will we stop repairing the history of the Sephardic people, nor will we eradicate anti-Semitic stereotypes that are deeply rooted in our country. [[Applauds]] Mrs Marcos has said this: recognition of Jewish community associations, the Sephardic Israel Centre or progress in granting citizenship to Sephardic Jews have the stamp of socialist governments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Europe of Democrats does not forget, nor does it forget that the action of the violent will always need the attitude of the indifferent. Indifference is always in the worst crimes against humanity. Today, who are leaving us the last survivors of the anti-Semitic crimes, when the internationalist rhetoric advances in Western democracies, we remember the lessons of the Democrats who built our union. Because - we remember - we are indifferent to any racist, anti-Semitic, anti-Egyptian, anti-Muslim attack; because - we remember - we will continue to work for tolerance, equal treatment and non-discrimination; because - we remember - the children and grandchildren of free Europe will always say no more. Shalom. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u27	Thank you very much, Mr González. This concludes the debate... [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u28	By allusions, because Mr. Gómez-Reino, Don Antón, said that I was telling Catalan jokes and I want to clarify that I was telling jokes of Eugeni Jofra Bafalluy, Eugenio, a great Catalan humorist who I recommend you to listen to. [[Protests]] Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. As I said, this concludes the debate on the first item on the agenda. We thank the two Members who presented the initiative and the whole delegation of the Madrid Assembly who accompanied us. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u30	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on radio, television and public service of state ownership. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u31	Thank you, President. Last week, with the covert dismissal of the president of Spanish Radiotelevision, we experienced the umpteenth stab from the political class to the house that one day was referent and loved by the vast majority of Spaniards. But this did not start last week; we reviewed what has been perpetrated by most of the parties that have inhabited this House in recent years. In 2016, the Government of Spain, of the People's Party, needed the support of Citizens. We were offered to distribute the judges, state agencies, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and, of course, also to distribute Spanish Radiotelevision. At that time he was president of Spanish Radiotelevision José Antonio Sánchez, whom I literally quote in an appearance - I open quotes -: 'I vote for PP and I will continue voting for PP' - I close quotes -. Today he chairs Telemadrid, by the way. What did we do in Citizens? We reject all these offers to distribute ourselves to the State, we propose that the judges elect the judges and that the rest of the State agencies be granted, in accordance with the principles of merit and capacity, by public invitation to tender. PSOE and Podemos, then in the opposition, shared the idea of the contest, and the People's Party, seeing that it lost the vote, ended up supporting the contest. The contest was launched, but the motion of censure arrived, came to power PSOE and Podemos and suddenly lost momentum through the contest and began to taste the tasty finger designation. They issued a royal decree law so that, if there was no consensus in this House, a single interim administrator could be appointed. A failed election was needed in the House. Curiously, two members of the Socialist Party were wrong to vote in the ballot box and this royal decree law was therefore activated allowing the appointment of a single interim administrator to the finger. This mistake could be considered innocent, but it is strange, first of all, that two deputies were wrong to vote in the ballot box, and it is even more strange that Pablo Iglesias was weeks earlier offering the only provisional administration, something that could only be given if the contest failed, and that mistake was needed for the contest to fail. In this tweet Ana Pardo de Vera tells that Iglesias offered her the provisional command of Spanish Radiotelevision. [[shows photocopying a tweet]] The tweet is from June; the vote with the mistake was in July. I think it is clear that Pablo Iglesias offered a position that would only occur in the event of a mistake in a vote, and two weeks later that error occurred. They owe us many explanations to the Spaniards. After several clumsy maneuvers, it was Rosa María Mateo who was appointed sole interim administrator. Matthew's provisionality was 33 months. Of course, everything is relative, the Middle Ages can be considered a provisional period between Antiquity and the Modern Age. With the disaster that resulted from the management of Rosa María Mateo and the collapse of the corporation, they decided to fake the public contest. The smell of the armchairs was joined by the People's Party. And I tell you: while the People's Party attacks Citizens because we reached health agreements in the middle of a pandemic, with 800 deaths every day and calling us all, sanchoists and I don't know what, the People's Party, at the same time, with PSOE, Podemos and PNV, agree the distribution of Spanish Radio Television below the table; and that of the judges, and that of the Constitutional Court, and that of the Court of Auditors, and that of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, etc. What a strange time it has been for us to live! Reaching health agreements, with 800 deaths every day, was traitors; dividing the state in the midst of that pandemic was patriotic. [[Applauds]] And why did I say they faked the public contest? First of all, because according to law this competition should be agreed in the Congress of Deputies, but the interlocutors were the secretary general of a party and the minister of the Presidency, that is, the negotiation was not in the Congress of Deputies, but it was between Genoa and Moncloa. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing to the seats of the Government]] But the worst of all came when, in the midst of the appearances of the candidates to preside Spanish Radio Television, before all the candidates who came to the Senate had finished appearing, the People's Party and the Socialist Party already informed who were to be the advisors and who was to be the president of the corporation. Can you imagine announcing the result of oppositions before the exams of the opponents? Well, that's exactly what these gentlemen, these gentlemen, these gentlemen and those gentlemen there did. [[Noting the seats of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Vasco, EAJ-PNV, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and Socialist, respectively]] Mr. Pérez Tornero came out of this process, but as he began to do things that Podemos didn't like and Sanchez asked some questions in some interview that didn't give him much grace either, having been half as much as the temporary administrator, he withdrew his support and had no other choice but to resign. This is what has happened since 2016 until today. There is only one party that has not participated in this indecency: Citizens; nor when they offered it to us from the Rajoy government, which was when we made the public contest possible, nor when later, with the arrival of Sánchez to the Moncloa, they did exactly the same, but more plumber. Every time we have voted in this House the distribution of seats in Congress only one party has emerged from all those votes since 2016, and that party has been Citizens. And they don't think it's as simple as getting up and leaving; this has consequences, that everyone here negotiates Tertullians in those rooms, that everyone here negotiates counselors. It is no coincidence that TV shows always defend one or the other party and never defend another. It is not by chance the prevalence of opinions favorable to the same parties always in the media. Last week, two very recent former vice presidents of the government, now famous Tertullians in the SER, Pablo Iglesias and Carmen Calvo, said that political parties should be represented - attentive - in the news. Hey, how do we represent Podemos in the news, for example, when we talk about the war in Ukraine? Do we dedicate a third of the information to saying that Putin is defending himself from an aggression by Ukraine? Or how is information reported representing Bildu? Saying that the etarras defended themselves from a Spanish invasion, for example? This very thing, by the way - that some today will come from worthy of distribution and to put friends in all places - happens in Telemadrid or now in Canal Sur. As soon as the People's Party was left alone, José Antonio Sánchez was appointed as president of Telemadrid, alias 'I vote for PP', as I said before, and VOX has gone from wanting to close Canal Sur to negotiating with PP and PSOE the placement of friends on the board of directors. Everyone here, when they touch hair, wants to make deals. PSOE and PP have historically negotiated to distribute Spanish Radiotelevision, judges, the Constitutional Court, the Spanish Data Protection Agency, the Court of Accounts, savings banks, boards of directors, revolving doors; for all that they have spoken. But, at the same time, in this legislature, you have left Spain in the hands of Esquerra and Bildu, so long as you do not talk to each other about matters that do not involve armchairs. They have left the general budgets of the State in the hands of the PNV since there is democracy in Spain, without, by the way, changing the electoral law, which would prevent that injustice because you do not want to change it. This law that we bring here today, in addition to prioritizing the merit and ability to choose who directs Spanish Radiotelevision, will solve blocking situations, such as the one we are living on and of which they don't know how to get out right now. It also deals with the great forgotten, EFE Agency, which should be the Spanish news reference agency and which is being overtaken by other Spanish news agencies from countries that do not have Spanish as an official language. This law also guarantees the budgetary stability of EFE, something that requires Europe, avoids unjustified tolls and cessations, as we have recently seen in EFE, and we have incorporated the EFE Agency into parliamentary control. If we don't do something, EFE will be a missed opportunity. In short, today Citizens propose a law that prevents the repetition of stories like the one I have just told them; it shields the state public media against interference from political parties, chooses the best to lead the public media and strengthens the EFE Agency. If they support this law, they will make it easier to recover Spanish RadioTV. Otherwise, they will give wings to those who question their existence. And you will continue to distribute a public radio and television that will not listen and that will not see anyone. The easiest thing for us would have been to get into the chair distribution. The easiest thing for us would have been to put people in the media, get hands on the judges, put friends in public agencies, like magistrates in the Constitutional Court. We could also have made a strong party financed illegally, paying for seats and campaigns with commissions; or we could have set up an electoral plot like that of the ERE that would guarantee us to win elections for years. [[Applauds]] We could have done that, because we also know that then corporatism comes, pardons come to corrupt politicians: 231 pardons to corrupt politicians since 1996. All of you have pardoned corrupt politicians. And now that of Griñán: hundreds of millions diverted to the electoral plot of the PSOE, hundreds of millions that were destined to generate employment and to train people who needed it. Who pardons them? Who pardons someone who has a precarious job? And who from this month can't pay the mortgage, who pardons him? And Mr Feijóo says that he would not like to see a former president of the Socialist Party in prison. But it's just that court sentences are not a matter of taste. What is this, quid pro quo, or what's going on here? Look, if to win elections or if to be a strong party we have to finance ourselves illegally, set up corrupt electoral plots, put police to destroy evidence of corruption in the Ministry of the Interior, charge commissions for public contracts, collect envelopes, distribute Spanish Broadcasting, distribute the judges, distribute the Court of Auditors, distribute the Spanish Data Protection Agency, distribute the Constitutional Court, vote the unfair Basque quota, approach ages, etc., we prefer to have it more difficult. We don't mind going with a hand tied behind your backs in front of all of you. We will fall as often as it takes, we will rise as often as necessary, but we will never sell our principles, we never betray our ideas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. The debate on this proposed law on radio, television and public service news of state ownership is an opportunity to fulfil the constitutional mandates, which today are crushed by a government that has shamelessly put public television at the service of its particular ideological and electoral interests. Not even in the past days of José María Calviño, back in the 1980s, were episodes and manipulations of the caliber of which we see in the stage of government of Pedro Sánchez, with the published reports a la carte. The recent resignation of Mr Pérez Tornero, who on 25 March last year received the votes of a large majority of this House - including mine - to preside over the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, makes it necessary to remember that in Spain we have a law in force to regain the independence of the RTVE Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. He carries it in his title, not in the letter of articulations and farragous provisions, not, in the very title: to regain independence and pluralism. Ladies and gentlemen, the resignation of the President, who has received an unequivocal mandate from this House, is one of the great failures of this government and a precise portrait of another of its weaves. At the end of the disastrous stage of that unique temporary administrator, so temporary and so unique that it was spent almost three years in these General Courts shaking the opposition, while at Radiotelevision Española condemned to make corridor to indomitable professionals, purged independent Tertullians, returned to the stage of the black lists, multiplied the debt of the public entity and crushed the truthful information for the benefit of sanchismo in its different variants and dressings, we now find ourselves with another dark episode. Perez Tornero's march revealed the rude manipulation of public broadcasting for the sake of the interests of a government that alters the nuclear elements of democracy. He passed through the Attorney General's Office, passed through the National Intelligence Centre, passed through the Sociological Research Centre, passed through the National Institute of Statistics, and now happens again in Spanish Radio Television before 2023, a key election year. As I said at the beginning, the citizens' proposal for a law represents an opportunity to restore solid foundations for a Spanish Radio Television in the service of democracy and the Constitution. To vote in favour of its consideration precisely because in Spain with this government, with its independent partners and with its infested institutions, democracy and the Constitution are in danger. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. By Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u35	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Let us go on to say that it is good for us to present this proposal for a law to regulate what has been necessary for so long to regulate. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to regulate Spanish Radio and Television and the EFE news agency. According to the proposal of Citizens, the spirit behind this proposal of law is that of drafting a regulation that avoids the bumps that occur continuously every time one has to decide something in reference to the organs of power of the Spanish public radio and television. It must be recognized that there are two elements in which the Citizens' proposal is correct. The first right is to bring to the lecture the situation of the EFE Agency, which remains a public news agency, but without regulation; that is, inexplicably there is no specific law that regulates it, and EFE has been in this way for decades and decades, since its foundation, more than eighty years, with only a regulation for its operation. The second issue on which this proposal is correct is the need to change the approach of the method of choice and the procedures for having a board of directors that can be approved in modern times, that can be approved by democracies that do not need surnames or prefixes. Both are necessary and must be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, today, I am even willing to congratulate you on doing so. From there, however, it is difficult to understand positive values in this bill. You are still very liberal Spanish citizens and very Spanish, and that is very clear in the wording and in the speech you have just made, Mr Díaz. I shall start briefly with the EFE Agency, where what they have done has been to transpose the same functions, only worse, which they have already suggested in their day the report of the expert council, and what they have done has been to incorporate with great effort something that the expert council has not done. Because, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, they have given themselves arduously to the task of underlining a national aspect of the public news service rather than insisting on its aspect of public service, which is what would determine an breadth of participation, a sense of pluralism, guarantees of the right of access; in short, all those values of public information and communication, which do not matter to you at all, because what matters to you is the image of Spain vis-à-vis the world, towards the outside, rather than the function of public service to channel information within the Spanish State. In the fund they are proposing more a national state news service than a public service of state and international scope. Radiotelevision Spanish is another aberrant issue of this articulation. Article 9 mistreats the languages of the State, the official languages also of the State, those which are not the Spanish, of course, because for you the language is only the Spanish and nothing else; well, they actually speak Spanish, which they define as the official and common language of the State. Diversity is also not something that matters to you very much. And I'm going on. Chapter IV, dedicated to the functions of the public service of Spanish Radio-television, is simply embarrassing because of the scarcity of content it presents. If that's all you have to say about the functions of a public service such as Radio Televisión Española, it would almost be better to delete most of the articles in this chapter. To conclude - since we could go chapter by chapter in the objections - they propose an advisory council both for Spanish Radiotelevision and for the EFE Agency, and it is good that there are them in both entities, but they do so with a composition that lends itself to leaving many flanks open for the interests not precisely of the citizenry. In any case, I have a clear doubt: how come they do not propose in this bill the creation of an audiovisual council, as is the case in European countries? We have already proposed this in the debate on the General Audiovisual Communication Law and it fell into a broken bag; it does not seem now that the drivers of this initiative care the least because, curiously, they have forgotten about it. Despite the content of their proposal, with which we do not agree at all on many issues, we will, with our abstention, allow this bill to be taken into consideration and, I repeat, not because we agree with the approaches that are being made, but because we want to open the way to discuss something that seems to be vetoed in this state: the regulation by law of the EFE Agency and the way in which the board of directors is elected, which has led to countless episodes of permanent political interference, governs who governs, and which could well be summed up, by shortening, in the form of chapuza after chapuza. Because also in this area of transparency and democratic control of public information media, this mythical phrase that Europe begins beyond the Pyrenees could be applied. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u37	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Mr. Díaz, after hearing your words I do not know how Pope Francis, at least, has not beatified you, the Citizens'. Saints and virgins without sin conceived! Because he's come here to talk about his cuetas more than anything else; all he's done is cry and, in the end, have some kind of "with me no one counts." It was because his illustrious former leader of the ranks, that white eye of politics that was going to save Spain, got little out on television at the time. That's why. But it's because the same ones who decided to climb them, decided to take him down. And that's the point. Don't tell us your sorrows here. Citizens present a bill to regulate state-owned radio, television and public news service. What doubt there is that for some political groups it is, has been and will be basic, fundamental, I would say, state public television, the entity, but what has been basic above all is its control. Both when it is there and when it is not there, it seems that the Spanish public television was the chalice of José De Arimatea, which would give absolute power and serve to overshadow the one who commanded it, and, meanwhile, the true task of the Spanish television forgotten and aimless. No one will recognize themselves in that portrait, obviously, but this photo, as I said, we have lived it. Even if we now have this white eye, this proposition of law, this magical solution of absolute pulcritude, the immaculate conception of transparency and absolute virtuosity, forgive, but coming from who comes, it does not give me any confidence. It seems to us that it is more a change of methodology to continue doing the same; now, not by changing some things it has to be for the better. Gentlemen, we understand that what fails is not the model, the form of choice of counselors, for example. For you, everything is a change of chromosomes, it is an excessively - you have also mentioned - Spanish mentality, reading from above down. It seems that everyone works the same way, and it doesn't. In Euskadi, for example, the board of directors of ITB already incorporates social representatives, and not in an advisory board section, not, within the board of directors: there is the Royal Academy of the Basque Language, there is the Society of Basque Studies, there is the Royal Basque Society of Friends of the Country, there is the University of the Basque Country, the unions that at that time have a majority or the federations and consumer associations of the Basque Country, and not, as you propose, as an advisory board. We will always defend the need for public media. It is basic, it is fundamental, it is necessary for democratic societies to be endowed with public resources, for the purposes and objectives that private companies will never prioritize. Businesses for profit do not work in the defense of unbreakable values and principles, with information, training and entertainment elaborated with rigour, truthfulness and contrast, diverse, plural and equitable, and also with quality. All this must be asked from the public media. The problem is neither what is asked nor how the proposed law is drafted. Why is this model that Citizens pose going to be more effective and efficient than the one that is in force? What guarantees do you give us? Why do you say that management advisors are going to be elected in a concrete way? What we are not going to stop saying is that the Spanish public medium Radiotelevision has great professionals, who in the darkest moments - who have had them, and not long ago - have been able to maintain the type and professionalism, and have not been manipulated by those who, without any scruple, have wanted to make that medium a toy of their own. But we are also not going to allow, because the colors of the government have changed, to continue to use Spanish Radio Television as a payment currency. We're in time for that not to happen again. You, Lords of Citizens, put forward a model in which the system of election of your governing bodies seems complicated and, however transparent it may seem, does not cease to have its possible traps. Do you think it's a more effective model? Why? Why should this you raise be more so than what is now? Do you think the problems will be solved because we will otherwise choose the members of the council? And there is his obsession with the language - they have already said it -, they are obsessed with it being Spanish, that it be state; first of all, that anything, that is, please, and then everything else. As far as the EFE Agency is concerned, it is not my group that refuses to have parliamentary control of the EFE Agency. I don't know if that's the best way you propose, there could probably be others, but to have control we won't oppose. We see more of a political need, that of you, in presenting this for asserting yourself, for being heard, for being seen, than a real need for change. The change to be made is not in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u39	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. We are in front of a proposal to modify the operation of the Spanish Radio Television company which states that it aims to guarantee objective, true and plural information. It is certainly commendable, but the truth is that neither now, with this government, nor before, with that of the PP or earlier, the state public media has guaranteed it. On the contrary, yesterday as today they were placed and placed as propagandistic bulwarks of the regime of 78, such as the vast majority of private media, and faithful reproducers of unique thought. All we need to see is the intense media campaign that we have been enduring months of pro-war to sell us NATO and the whitening of fascism and Nazism, either with Meloni or with Azov. It is not necessary to look very far, this very morning on Spanish Television spoke of - I quote literally - the heroes of the Azov Battalion to refer to this well-known Ukrainian neo-Nazi group. This proposal, if in some respects it may be of interest, affects the same function of political propaganda. Article 3: The public service function includes the coverage of events and events of special interest to Spain and, in particular, the activities of the royal family, the Head of State, etc. Moreover, article 4: preserve and promote constitutional principles. Look, from this, we're leftovers, packed in the last forty-four years. Precisely, there is a lack of information on a public and social basis, and even more so if it is the reality of differentiated peoples, such as Galician. They talk about promoting territorial cohesion, plurality and linguistic and cultural diversity, but this goodwill only lasts until it is concrete. Article 9: the programming of the RTVE Corporation shall be expressed in Spanish as an official and common language of the State; the remainder shall be contested by disconnection. Well, but we speak Galician, like those who speak Catalan or Basque, we also pay taxes that support state radio and public television and, therefore, we have the same right as those who speak Spanish to see in them our cultural expressions, our cinema, our music or our literature; if not, everything remains in propaganda discourse to cover up a discrimination that we have been dragging too long. On political use and manipulation, a spokesman of the People's Party will surely come up here to denounce it. That there is, I have already said; that the PP denounces it, does not cease to be ironic and hypocritical; that Feijóo does, is already the height of cynicism. In Galicia we have absolutely controlled public media, at the service of the PP. It's not that we say it, say the workers grouped in Defense to Galega, who have been nothing less than 228 weeks, more than four years, denouncing concealment, lies and information manipulation. And so does justice, with a firm sentence that condemns CRTVG for punishing a worker precisely for denouncing information manipulation. This is the PP of Feijoo. Let's take a note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u40	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u41	Thank you, President. Mr Díaz, anyone would say that you have neither ruled nor had any influence and, without going any further, you do not continue to rule in such important places as the Madrid City Council; anyone would say that, when you come up here and it seems that it has nothing to do with politics or with governments or with decisions made at the time. We have come a long way here since 2005. What you have quoted is later, but initially, with the committee of wise men and Mr Lledó, a report was made that covers almost all the issues that we have then disassembled. Following the report of the committee of wise men, Congress and the Senate have already lowered expectations; later, the People's Party entered the Government and what it did is to change the system of election by simple majority instead of qualified majority; later, the Government arrives and we take up the idea of the contest that we have endorsed and agreed on, and a contest is launched with agreement of all parties on the committee of experts that was going to manage this contest. And what's going on? For, finally, the contest, which had to be, for different reasons I don't have time to explain, ends in a match agreement. Therefore, we have moved from a very positive framework to a public contest, to guarantee independence, to guarantee the viability of Spanish Radio-television, to a party agreement that, let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, of the Unidad Podemos and of the PNV, although I do not like to say that we have already warned them, we have warned them. We already warned that we were going to end as we finished, and in what we have ended is in a monumental crisis of Spanish Radiotelevision, and that's the serious thing and that's the important thing, because what happens to us well employed will be for us not to do things in conditions at every moment. No matter what happens to us, no matter what the advisors of each party, what matters is that we have a group of magnificent professionals in Spanish Radiotelevision who see how the viability of a public service is practically being dismantled. What really matters is that, having the basis and work of a committee of experts, we have not been able to translate that magnificent initial work into a path that guaranteed the autonomy and capacity of Spanish Broadcasting. And you, lords of Citizens, let me tell you that now you want to become the adalids, the only ones. No, there were other people who did not participate in the vote, but that does not matter very much to the workers or to those who want quality public television for our country, that it is objective and that it meets a criterion of public service. I recognize that they have been working in the same direction for a long time, but they leave great gaps: the well-defined public service, the right of access, the Audiovisual Council, language treatment or their permanent centralizing and centralist desire. However, we are not going to oppose the handling of this initiative, but I want to make it clear that you too have missed a great opportunity to think more about the collective and the common than about your partisan interests in electoral space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez and Mr García have the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we debate about the public media, those media that should be - sometimes they are - the reference of all that journalist who seeks a professional career full of opportunities and, above all, that should be professionals - precisely the word says it - although sometimes they are not. Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, when I saw that they had submitted a PL on this subject, I had hopes that they could present something more forceful than what they have presented, because the truth is that the text was poor. But, Mr. Díaz, I want to remind you of one thing: you have been the most bloated party in the media while you have been missing, so less lessons. [[Applauds]] It is true that there is one point we want to touch on, precisely one which you too touch on: the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio Television must be removed from any political influence. I think it's obvious, even though the politicians, the ones we're here, deny it. The evidence that politics directly influences the media is so obvious that it seems a lie that we continue to deny it in this House. In private media, usually more accustomed to non-partisanship - some, not all - it is where this influence is actually seen most clearly, but the problem comes when that influence reaches the public media, which are the ones we all pay for in the end. A clear example of this I am saying is the election and subsequent role of the former president of Spanish Radio Television, Mr José Manuel Pérez Tornero, a president placed in office by different political forces present here and forced to resign also - oh, surprise! - by the same political forces present here. I don't know, I think it's funny, ladies. Mr Tornero will pass into history as one of the worst presidents of public television, and not because he is not a good professional - who surely is - but because he makes public television a partisan and sectarian place, and above all because he collaborates in promoting misinformation, which I believe is the worst that a media can do. An example, precisely of the subject on which the question of the Republican Left was to be addressed at the session of the Spanish Radio-television Control Commission, which was finally suspended. The question was about the misinformation; in particular, he wondered why Spanish Radiotelevision reduced the budget of the information spaces of the house and increased it for external production programs or that whitened to the extreme right; there had been some VOX charge too. The fact of reducing the budget of the undoubtedly most important space of the chain, in which it was informed - and remarc, it was informed - to the population of the most immediate today, is the great evidence that the former president of Spanish Radiotelevision was the biggest disinformant of the whole State, at least so far. Where has a media media been seen to prioritize questionable content programs to information spaces? Information is the main goal of any decent journalist or media, and reporting is your work, our work as journalists, those who are journalists or we are in the union. What was happening on public television was terribly innocent, not to mention, of course, the historic and stifling fall of public television audiences. The obligation of any journalist, as far as I know - which, as I have said, I belong to the trade union - is to report in the most professional, relevant and truthful way; everything that is outside of this I believe will raise doubts. All of this has splattered authentic professionals, who have been totally separated or ignored - some even accused of going to know what and even others who are not even there - by the simple fact of not obeying an address, as I said, partyist and sectarian. In fact, the clear example and one of the most striking cases is that of journalist Jesús Cintora, who was the presenter of the program that had the largest audience of the chain in general and political today. It has been mentioned why he was kicked out, but the worst was the way he was fulminated, because President Tornero didn't even have the courage to give the face and the relevant explanations to the journalist. By the way, can private media influence public television? I will repeat to you again: can private media influence public television day-to-day? [[A lady Member: Maybe.- Rumours]] I'll ask the question and see if anyone can answer me. Ladies and gentlemen, the media we all pay for should be far from all this sectarian controversy. We prioritize the well-being and professionalism of journalists who try to do their job in the best way and give them the tools to do so. Only then will we have a journalistic content of quality, professional and truthful. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Alvarez. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u44	Thank you, President. An increase in the management structures with people of his trust, that is, plug-in; a debt of 588 million euros along with the worst audiences in the history of public television and radio; the cessation of a program like The Clear Things of Jesus Cintora, which did work in hearings; three of the seven professionals of the high management of Spanish Radiotelevision have resigned or have been terminated in year and a half; the veto imposed on Spanish Radiotelevision professionals so that they could not travel to Tindouf and report on the situation of the Saharan people, or the dismissal of the screenwriter Barrachina for labeling that Juan Carlos had left Spain. Any of these arguments would have been enough for Mr Tornero to resign as president of Spanish Radio Television, but we all know that he has not resigned for these reasons; if he has, it has only been because the pact between the People's Party and the Socialist Party has been broken. The resignation of the president has also meant the march of his chief of staff, a person imposed by the People's Party and who has de facto acted as vice president of the corporation. This has not been said by our parliamentary group, as has been said by different trade unions and by the workers of the Spanish Radio-television news stations. The manipulation, politicization and misinformation on public television has been the mark of the house since Mr Pérez Tornero arrived. In view of this proposal for a law, we ask ourselves a question in our parliamentary group: why is the plurality that has not existed on public television fundamental? Because the right-wing do not need the public media, because they already have the private to amplify their speeches. One example is you, lords of Citizens. Yesterday Mr Bal told the People's Party that it was not worth making the 'offends' of this proposal. This bill, Mr. Díaz, what is it? You want to wash your face now, but you have accompanied all the decisions of the People's Party in the politicization of all autonomous public televisions where you have ruled with the People's Party. It has been done by the People's Party on the South Channel or Mrs Ayuso on Telemadrid, and it has always agreed with its partners, who are nothing more and nothing less than Citizens. And you come here to talk, Mr. Díaz, about your party going with a tied hand? You, who have been the IBEX 35 party? Have you been the party that has had the most minutes on television in this country, accompanied by the big companies in this country? [[Applauds]] That is, until you have no longer been useful to the system. You have served what power wanted you to serve and now you no longer serve because you have others who are doing that dirty task to you. So, Mr. Díaz, you have been the party of power until power has decided that you were no longer even a party. Because, of course, those who don't have money, those who don't have power and those who don't have big companies behind us need more than anyone a quality public television with truthful information. For this reason, the situation that has occurred in Spanish Radio-television is serious, because the right to information and the public media are fundamental elements in understanding our democratic system. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we must be able - and that is the responsibility of this Congress - to open a debate that responds to two fundamental elements. The first is to give legal certainty to the corporation, because you know that an interim management does not have the same level of competence as the presidency; and this Congress has the democratic mandate to facilitate a new presidency for Spanish Radio and Television. And, the second, solve the urgent problems presented by Spanish Radiotelevision: to end the information manipulation that responds to the media interests of the right, to launch the opposition process that will affect two thousand external and internal jobs and to approve the second framework mandate of Spanish Radiotelevision and also the contract program to give stability to the corporation. That's what we need right now. These are three measures that would help us start the recovery path of the public corporation as an impartial information mechanism, which is what this country needs. Ladies and gentlemen of citizens and right-wings, this country is sick of manipulation every time you control the media, whether public or private. [[Applauds]] Because you, the three right-wing people, already have big media in this country. They already have Telecinco, they already have Antena 3, they already have El Mundo, they already have La Reasono and they already have ABC, which respond to their class and party interests. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That is what the private media in this country responds to. On the other hand, the citizens we want to be well informed, because it is a constitutional right that we have, it only serves the public, public radio and television. If these end up also with the People's Party, as has happened, it is given in a silver platter the control of all information to those who only intend to manipulate it according to their economic and political interests. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u46	How late they're giving it to Don Guillermo! And look at you having good afternoons, bad afternoons and even worse afternoons. The truth is, I'm not going to join them because, when someone wants to give everything, I have empathy with him. Even if you've let go of some coz, I'm already empathized, although there are evenings... Don't be afraid to look up, because when you take out that 'citizen' display you remind me of this beautiful dome and that folding up there that reminds a beautiful animal that is represented there: we all do well and we're so handsome! They remind me of the animal that's represented there. [[Marks the skylight with painted glass located in the vault of the hemicycle]] Yeah, yeah, upstairs, don't you see? The window. Have you recognized the animal yet? [[The Lord]] Don Guillermo, we agree. It says in the Constitution: 'The law will regulate the organisation and parliamentary control - and this is important - of the media... dependent on the state'. Right? It's as easy as that. So, is there a need for a law? Yes, the Constitution says so. Is Spanish Television regulated? Yeah. Are they regulated and with parliamentary control - which is what I would like to talk about today - other means? The answer is no, no, no and forty-seven years no. Because they are not subject to appearances, for example. You and I have shared appearances - like that of the president of the EFE Agency, who comes here almost to tell us that it is not a public medium and that we only pay her losses -, who come here when they are appointed and for budgets without knowing or how a result account works. Gentlemen, I would ask you, please, that when you choose people for important positions, at least that you know how to make the first numbers; you can do it in a Post It or, if not, we teach it to you, like that minister, in two afternoons. Don't worry, we have very good people in right-wing parliamentary groups to teach them. [[Applauds]] So, is the scope of this bill right? No doubt he's fine, but he's a long way to go. He's missing because we've been celebrating Francoism for forty-seven years here. In the case of the EFE Agency, you, lords of the PSOE and also of the PP, are taking part in the celebration of an agency founded by a certain Ramon Serrano Suñer, the Brother-in-law. You're letting the EFE Agency work as it worked exactly during the franchise. You hate it, I know, but it's in your interests for the EFE Agency to function as it did during the franchise: at the service of the government. I am not going to go into the details of when in the Commission a senator from the PSOE made us a proposal to pay tribute to the founding parents of Spanish Broadcasting. He asked us to celebrate the founding of Radio Nacional de España in 1937 by Millán-Astray and Spanish Television in 1956 by Arias-Salgado, without forgetting, in 1938, the first tests with Telefunken in collaboration with the German Government. You really don't realize what you're asking us to celebrate. [[Applauds]] And the problem is that for forty-seven years of celebrating Francoism and collaboration with Germany in 1938, you have forgotten to apply the Constitution to the EFE Agency and to many media dependent on public money. So, I'm going to propose a solution. Not only are we going to support this proposal - don't worry - but we are going to discuss this law and then we can go into detail. We are going to support it so that it can be processed in this Parliament, in spite of the scratches it has given us - some of them with a couple of lies - but they have been tiny scratches, because you can't really make big scratches. For the fundamental problem there is a very rapid solution that we have already proposed in 2020. We proposed that the Spanish Radio-television Control Commission will change its name and role to be a joint control commission for state-owned media. Cost to the taxpayer, zero euros; compliance with the Constitution, 100 per cent. We have not complied with the Constitution for forty-seven years and this very afternoon, if you would, if you would and these others would, we could do so. [[pointing to the seats of the different parliamentary groups of the House]] I challenge them. Do you want to comply with the Constitution, yes or no? Let's do it in the next five minutes. I challenge them, to see if they have democratic courage. [[Applauds]] With regard to the development of the law, Mr Guillermo, I am not going to give you lessons in liberalism, but the law you have proposed is very unliberal; we will talk about it, we will make amendments to it. First of all, because you are not talking about what we should be talking about, that we think it has to be a great project of what the State has to be dependent on, at the service of the Spanish State, probably more outward than it was doing inside. In its wording - I do not tell you that it is bad, on the contrary, it is well worked - we think they focus too much on what there is, and we understand that it is better something new plant than trying to build on that dirty ball than there is. It is better to be able to build State-dependent means reduced to their expression necessary to serve the State, not to serve the state of political parties, of these gentlemen, of these gentlemen and their usual partners. [[points to the benches of the Socialist and Popular parliamentary groups in Congress, respectively]] That's what we should be doing and there, despite the kicks that citizens hit us, you will always have us by your side. And by the way, since we're about to apply, tomorrow we have a huge chance. The minister of propaganda is coming here tomorrow and we're going to talk to him about this too. The message will be very simple: gentlemen of the socialist government in collaboration with the quadruple P - those who agreed the presidency: People's Party, PSOE, PNV and Podemos; because you have said it very well and you are right, not only did you oppose Citizens, we too, that we are a little bigger at this time than you and that we were also there - you agreed to put your dirty hands on Spanish Television while shouting: Independence, independence, independence! That's what you, you, you and you have done. [[Noting the seats of the popular parliamentary groups in the Congress, Socialist, Basque, EAJ-PNV and Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, respectively]] And, on top of it, they've got frogs. [[Applauds]] Let's talk about it and tell the minister tomorrow: Get your dirty hands off the information of all the Spaniards! And, I conclude, Don Guillermo, I had so much to give him and I haven't given him, I had so much to tell him and we will do it in the course of this law, but, really, you stop applying techniques as frank as those that made Serrano Suñer excited at the founding of the EFE Agency. Let us control this very afternoon, by changing the Spanish Television Control Commission to a public media control committee - this very afternoon, zero cost - to start implementing the constitutional mandate that all public media should be owed to this Parliament, to these Courts, to give function to their public service and to really control that they serve the Spaniards and not to you, to you, to you or to you, to the quadruple P or to your partners that I do not want or name. [[points to the seats of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Socialist, Basque EAJ-PNV and Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, respectively]] Thank you so much. Good afternoon. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u48	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Díaz, I must confess to you that, when I read your proposal for a law, I was already surprised at the partial balance sheet and the frontal criticism of my group, among other things, which you confirmed this afternoon with your speech. Mr. Díaz, we're used to Citizen Group adanism. Today Mr Agirretxea has quoted the Bible and I am sometimes reminded of those medieval representations of the final judgment: the mortals below and you on the cloud imparting justice. What happens is that from the stands many things can be said, but when one rules - and you have already done it - one sees that we are all mortal. The Spanish citizens have become tired of humanism, the new policy has dwindled very quickly and, in these times of zozobra, what the Spanish want is certainty and trust. [[Applauds]] You, Don Guillermo, who likes the classics, should always remember, both in politics and in life, that thing of memento mori. Going to the content of the text, we agree in part with the purpose of its proposed law. The People's Group has been active in the control role of the EFE Agency. We have asked for your president to appear before the Constitutional Commission, we have put forward initiatives and non-legislative proposals in this regard, as you well know. I would even say that we are more concerned than you, that you have hardly devoted a minute of your speech to talking about the EFE Agency. We agree that the EFE Agency should be subject to democratic control under Article 20 of our Constitution for State-dependent media. But the way, in our opinion, is not the right one. More than a regulatory law of the EFE Agency, its proposal seems to be a short stick to the 2006 law of state radio and television, simply adding the Agency's collection EFE to the articles relating to Spanish Radio and Television. This even leads them to have recorded a text with numerous errors, confusing the National Commission of Markets and Competition with the National Commission of the Securities Market and inventing even the fusion of both, when they speak of the 'national commission of values and competition'; confusing the framework mandate with the contract program that provides for the current Spanish broadcasting law; awarding the president of Spanish Radiotelevision competence over the EFE Agency, or calling indistinctly the head of the EFE Agency president or director general. We don't think it's too strict, citizens' honors. Nor does it convince us that this regulation does not aspire to consensus on an issue that affects institutions that should be objective and independent, and it does not do so when, as I said at the beginning, it does not seem to seek the agreement, but rather the confrontation with parties that, humbly, we represent some millions of Spaniards. Believe me if I tell you that we, as far as Spanish Broadcasting and the EFE Agency are concerned, want to be more part of the solution than part of the problem, and I believe that we have been demonstrating it with intense control work and also with proposals in recent months. But, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore the moment when this debate is taking place in this House either. Today we are discussing the future of Spanish Radio-television, just a few days after the government forced the resignation of its president, Mr Pérez Tornero; a president who had been elected by the overwhelming majority of this House as a result of the agreement between the main political parties; an election, by the way, ending the black stage of the single administrator appointed by Mr Sánchez's divine finger, Mrs Rosa María Mateo, who led Spanish Radio-television to its highest levels of manipulation and intervention by the government and to the lowest levels of credibility and, consequently, of audience. [[Applauds]] Well, just a year and a half after the election of a new president and with all the polls - the serious ones - against, Mr Sánchez forces Mr Pérez Tornero's resignation to intensify control over our public television. With this new assault on Spanish Radio-television by the government, the Spaniards know that Mr Sánchez is neither sincere when he talks about pacts nor wants independent institutions; that he prefers to content his radical partners - today we have seen here again how Podemos pointed and attacked, by name and surname, the media - rather than the moderate majority of citizens, and they have demonstrated this with their interference in the CIS, in the Attorney General's Office, in the National Intelligence Centre or in the INE. Democracy is a tree that needs to be looked after. Mr. Sánchez del Real said to look up. I also invite us to look up at the bumps of this vault and of that wall 1 to remember that we must always take care of democracy. In their essay How Democracies Die, Professors Ziblatt and Levitsky warned that the experience of recent decades reminds us that democracy is weakening when unwritten norms are not respected, basic consensus is broken or independent institutions are not respected and detested. I do not doubt the democratic character of the Socialist Party, but I believe that Mr Sánchez is being very irresponsible by destroying the prestige of our institutions, only to remain in power. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, none of this helps to strengthen our democratic system or to strengthen our constitutional system. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the reform of the Spanish broadcasting law, but we should start by demanding compliance with the legislation in force, which talks about its functional independence from the government. A few minutes ago, precisely because of a teletype of the EFE Agency, we learned of the information that the Government has approved in the Council of Ministers unilaterally reforming the social statutes of Spanish Radiotelevision to give its interim president full powers over all those areas which it has limited precisely because it is interim, precisely because it has not passed through this House. They will give full powers to a person who has not passed parliamentary control, usurping and devaluing once again the role of the Congress of Deputies and Parliament. It is a very serious fact that the Government must explain as soon as possible. Because it seems more and more clear that the objective of this maneuver to place at the head of Spanish Radiotelevision to which she was secretary general of Spanish Radiotelevision with Rosa María Mateo is nothing other than to obtain absolute control of the television of all by another Sánchez, who lives in the Palace of the Moncloa. I spoke at the beginning of my intervention of the final judgment, and I do not want to be a prophet of the Apocalypse, but reality is what it is. If the return to government propaganda and the sectarian use of Spanish Radiotelevision is confirmed, citizens will do what they have been doing for a long time, changing with the control of their television the channel they are watching, and this will cause the audience to continue to sink from the channel and some news that we must remember that not so long ago they were leaders in audience. The good thing is that it no longer hangs that Sanchez's propaganda uses a series or a television. Termine, president, affirming that the situation of Spanish Radio Television is difficult, but the Popular Group will continue to exercise the democratic role of control of Spanish Radio Television and making proposals to improve our public radio and television, to try to regain a prestige that it has had and that, unfortunately, once again sanchismo has lost. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Carazo. Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u50	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the people: lack of rigour, errors of bulge and, in short, with all the affection, Mr Díaz, an authentic chaff. You present this initiative with the aim of improving the organization and functioning and ensuring the independence and impartiality of your highest officials, both for Spanish Radiotelevision and for the EFE Agency; however, it is clear that what you claim is not achieved by this proposed law. You, lords of Citizens, mix barbecues with merinas. Let me give you some examples. One of the issues that arises is that the regulation that is established for both entities is analogous in many respects, despite the fact that the functions and nature of the EFE Agency are very different from those of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. Therefore, given the different nature and the difference in the functions of these two entities, it would be neither advisable nor necessary nor appropriate to bring the two entities together in a single regulation. On the other hand, it is very important to note that none of the discussions on audiovisual communication in Spain and the rest of the world, such as the draft general law on audiovisual communication or the fight against misinformation, have been taken into account in this proposal for a law. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, you should know that when it comes to a proposal for a law concerning two public undertakings in operation, it should 1 Note from the Journal of Sessions: Mr Carazo Hermoso refers to the impact of the coup d'état of 23 February 1981. have an economic memory and you don't have it. But this doesn't end here. I will briefly outline some of the errors we have detected, although some have already been pointed out by the spokesman for the People's Group. The data provided on the EFE Agency do not correspond to the public data of this company, but it is that these data appear on their website. With regard to the EFE Agency, an additional provision of public sector contracts is repealed, which is rescued a few paragraphs below. Repealed provisions are cited and there are erroneous references to institutions, such as the National Securities and Skills Commission or the National Markets and Competition Commission, which no longer exist. Moreover, you name Parliament when the reference to be made is to the General Courts or Congress of Deputies and Senate. In short, Your Honor, it must be said that there are bulwark errors. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is serious and remarkable that article 9 of the Constitution contains a strong recognition of the language in which these media are to be expressed, in terms that may be questioned in accordance with article 3 of the Constitution. Mr. Díaz, you could keep listing mistakes, but I wouldn't be given the seven minutes to detail them. I am once again surprised by the lack of rigour, probably the fruit of political opportunism. On the other hand, I am also surprised by the statements made in this House by certain right-wing parliamentary groups, which can only be defined as despicable. With the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero the socialists made a Spanish Radiotelevision similar to what must be a public television service in a democratic society. In this regulation, the designations which until then belonged to the Executive were transferred to the agreement in Parliament. A qualified majority was also imposed as the only method, which required consensus among the majority forces. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, speak of assault? Really, assault? It was you coming to the government with Mariano Rajoy and changing the law. They approved a legal reform that allowed the People's Party to appoint, with the only votes of its parliamentarians, the president of Spanish Radiotelevision and the members of the board of directors. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the PP again used public radio and television for its benefit. Whenever the people in power have been in power, they have done the same, and there are several examples that should at least cause them some degree of indecency. I quote some of you. Do you remember when the manipulation of the information reached such an extreme with Alfredo Urdaci at the head of the news reports that the first judicial conviction to the public body occurred on the occasion of the information on the general strike of 2002? Or when Europe led us to the shame that, among other things, the European Parliament in 2018 asked the people's government for explanations about the manipulation of their information and that the Council of Europe denounced, as it did in 2013, the interference of the People's Party? Assault? You guys really say about the assault? This happened relatively recently, but almost nothing ago, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you reformed for the second time in eight months - which we might consider a counter-reform - the Telemadrid Act, turning it into a television at the service of Mrs Ayuso's Government. There has been so much opacity that the Socialist Party has appealed to the Constitutional Court and has admitted itself to procedure. [[Applauds]] And if we talk about Galician public television, that of Mr Feijóo, the same one that accuses the Government of taking public institutions and that forgets, which is quite common in him, that in his land the workers of public television have more than one hundred Fridays of protests accusing the Autonomous Government of manipulation. [[Applauds]] And these gentlemen speak of assault. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, you do not care about the public, you like privatization. You govern for 1% of the population, for your friends, and we govern for the remaining 99%. In short, for the middle and working class, and not only in this respect, but in all others. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Raya.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u52	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, for the elimination of the mandatory use of masks in public transport. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u53	Thank you, President. Citizens are bringing here today a proposal that we should not bring, and we should not do so because it has been too long since the mask in public transport and elsewhere, such as optics and pharmacies, should not be compulsory. One of the first issues to which the Spanish Government has become accustomed is that they impose a restrictive measure of freedom, but they do not have to prove that it is effective. [[The lady]] Invert the burden of proof. The case of masks is paradigmatic. There is one thing that would be very good if the government were clear: it is not the Spanish citizens or I here who have to prove that compulsory masks can be removed. It's not like that. It is you, gentlemen of the Government, who every day must justify a restriction on freedom and prove that it is necessary. What we know today, the great evidence we have today is that COVID-19 is a mild disease in the vast majority of cases. What we know today is that Portugal, Belgium, Denmark, the United Kingdom, France, Finland, Ireland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania, Croatia and Malta have removed the mask in public transport a long time ago. Then it has been removed by others, but from these countries we already have data and nothing has changed and nothing has changed for evil. By the way, only Spain and Germany maintain the mandatory mask on planes. Some sources from the Ministry of Health have said that, as the cold comes, it is better to leave the masks. In Finland, Norway or Denmark, the climate is tropical. I promise you it'll be colder even than the one we're waiting for here and nothing's happened. Today, some of you will be referred to the Alert Office. Do you know what the Alert Office said yesterday? They keep the mask mandatory in public transport because the flu comes strong. By that rule of three, the mask must always be mandatory because there will always be someone who can seriously get sick with the flu. The other reason they give since the Alert Office is that removing the mandatory mask from public transport would give the message that the pandemic is over. What scientific criterion is that? Who do you think is in the Alert Office to decide which message is being sent or not? That'll be a matter of politicians, won't it? It is scandalous to maintain a restriction on freedom because it can send the wrong message. Freedom never sends a wrong message, it's not the same as Western democracy. Without being Nostradamus, I'll tell you what's going to happen to this matter. The day they remove the mandatory mask on public transport they won't be able to tell us the data that made them make the decision. And I tell you why, I have evidence, this has happened before. Last Christmas, in the face of an increase in cases, suddenly imposed the return of the mandatory mask on the outside. They couldn't explain very well why, but they did. It was merely a cosmetic restriction, it was removed very soon by the stir caused and nothing changed in the epidemiological situation. Some time later my parliamentary group, Citizens, brought to this House the removal of the mask inside. Right here we were told that the conditions were not given that day to withdraw it and a week and little withdrew it. They didn't explain to us what had changed to remove her. But I'll tell you more. When we proposed here the removal of the mask in interiors - the PSOE voted in favour and at the very least withdrew it - the People's Party criticized the proposal of Citizens for recklessness and the health spokesman of the PNV even resorted to the personal attack against me for proposing the removal of the mask in interiors. He called me an irresponsible populist and accused me of endangering people. Look out for what happened next. Within a few days, the Government, following the mandate of the Congress, which had approved the Citizens' proposal, removed the mask inside. How do you think the spokesmen of the People's Party and the PNV who had put me on the heat of the week came to this House to say that I was endangering people by asking them to remove the mask inside? No mask. The whole Chamber came in without a mask. One of two, either they love to get seriously sick or the populist lie was not in me but in others. Judge yourselves. Tomorrow afternoon, when the plenary is over, full to which all of you, like me, will come tight and without mask, I will go out to the street without mask, I will take a taxi - only the taxi driver and I -, I will put the mask with the window lowered, if I want, and I will go to the presentation of the new book by Andrés Trapiello, who will be well filled. It'll be without a mask. Then I will dine, celebrating the writer's success, without a mask and I will climb a taxi - the taxi driver and I alone - with a mask. The next day, all of you and I will gather here, tight, no mask. Do you realize that? Do you realize, gentlemen of the government? This is absurd. Put an end to this, we all win. The Spaniards will gain freedom, you will be better rulers and the Minister of Health, Mrs Darias, will stop listening to this issue, which I know you are looking forward to. And there is another argument when it comes to demanding that they remove the mask from public transport. If you maintain measures of zero effectiveness, you squander your authority for future measures. I hope not, but if in the future it is necessary to put on masks again, you will have very difficult to convince the Spaniards that you must wear it when you kept it without being necessary. Gentlemen of the Government, restricting freedom is the last ratio, not an act of reflection. Today, they vote in favour of the Citizens' proposal and remove the mandatory mask in public transport, optics and pharmacies. Do it. Do it for your poor credibility. Do it for your authority. Do so out of respect for citizens' rights. Do it because it's consistent with scientific evidence. Do it for not bending everything to political propaganda. Let him do what a democratic government has to do, which is to restrict freedoms only when it is strictly necessary. In short, do it for freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Romero Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u55	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Once again the citizens bring us a debate on the use of the mask, in this case to eliminate the compulsory use of the mask in public transport and in health facilities. And, frankly - I say this with all due respect, of course - it is a proposal with little technical rigour for a matter of as much silence as it is the protection of citizens' health. They raise it as if it were a question of who is going to give the news before. In fact, I have made here an exhibition of what has happened in recent months and it seems that you were the first. This is not going to give news or headlines or give more to propaganda; that is what the Government has always been about. We, the People's Group, have always defended the same thing since the beginning of this pandemic: any health measures taken must be taken from the scientific evidence and endorsed by the experts and the autonomous communities. None of these premises has guided the Government during these nearly two years of pandemic management, only correcting or responding to the proposals of the People's Party; indeed, as is the case on other issues. The government's vavenes regarding the use of the mask and its regulation have been a misconception. We all remember in the early months of 2020 the former Minister of Health, Illa, saying that they don't recommend going with the masks on the street or Simon saying that it didn't make sense to wear the mask. A blow and above all a terrible damage to the population, because in public health communication is a very important instrument. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the management of the Government's COVID has been a disaster, and I do not say that because it is the People's Party, the experts say. This same September, a prestigious report was published in the scientific journal The Lancet, which pointed out Spain for its poor management in the pandemic, because it reacted late, very slowly, to take action; for the delay in closing flights with China and Italy; for the errors, precisely very serious, in the communication on the use of the mask confusing the population; because the measures were totally wrong and because many deaths could have been avoided; says this report. What is most striking about this report is that it says that, surprisingly, after almost two years, an independent external audit has not been drawn up that assesses the management of the pandemic and that there is no clear plan of action, a law of pandemics that we have been asking for and proposing in the People's Party, a safe legal framework to deal with pandemics; let alone the failure to comply with the measures adopted in the public health and health opinion of the Commission for Reconstruction, including the State Agency for Public Health, which we still do not know anything about in this House. [[Applauds]] They didn't want, they didn't know, they didn't manage the pre-pandemic or the pandemic, and - worst of all - not the post-pandemic either. And the citizens are clearly fed up, logically, and confused; and the government meanwhile, hidden, does not speak clearly and gives no explanation. Why has 95% of the countries of the European Union abolished its use? What health reasons are there to maintain it? Or are they just getting carried away by fear? Why have they not tested seroprevalence to see the immunity of the population, as the Madrid Community has recently done? If the experts advise to continue with the measure, please exit, explain and submit the reports. The result of their silence is that citizens are fed up not, the following; and what they are creating is conflictivity in public transport, because many citizens, indeed, tired already, do not put on the mask and create conflict because of the contradictions of this Government. My group has tabled an amendment, of course, along the same lines as always: that there be scientific evidence to support the action that is being taken, with full consensus with the Autonomous Communities. Taking care of health is not to do politics. Gentlemen of the Government and its partners: less resistance manual, less docuserie and more pandemic management manual, and more good health management manual, and more support for health professionals, and more listening to the health workers who are making proposals. That's what they had to be in. Citizens are tired, but do they know what they're tired of? They are tired of this evil government and what they expect to be done as soon as possible, because they are not up to what we need at this very difficult time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. After hearing the intervention of your group, Citizens, I have a question: How much do you need at this time of demagogy, of opportunism, to survive politically? Because characterizing in such a preponderant way that the obligation to wear the mask is a lack of freedom is opportunism and demagogy, because it has not met any other criteria. You only say preponderantly that the obligation to wear the mask is an abuse and a lack of freedom in this society. Of course, we all want to live without masks; the whole of society is better without masks, and that obligation - of course it is - will have to disappear, but it should be a decision that does not correspond to the whim of its group. Is it not better to take into account the different criteria of existing experts and institutions? Wouldn't it be better to have the health sector approach? Would it not be necessary to follow the advice and criteria of the inter-territorial council and to contrast the different situations and to make a recommendation? Would it not be necessary to take into account the different health systems that exist in the State? All these sectors must be heard, and this must also be done in accordance with the different competences in health systems. But no, above all you come here to impose or try to create noise about when to try to be the first once again. Are they not respecting precisely the need for consensus and collective work to be done on this matter? We too share, as proposed by the Autonomous Community of Navarre, that it would be time to remove it. We agree, but when? That is what must be determined collectively and not from the point of view of the leadership of your group. Above the demagogy and the desire for leadership that you have, we have always acted rigorously, in a spirit of consensus and according to what dictates the best possible scientific evidence; we have always done so during the pandemic and we will always do so. You, on the other hand, in this sense, have contributed nothing during the pandemic. We are all aware that society is tired and wants to be able to remove the mask at once; we know it and we share it, but first and foremost we must try to raise public awareness that this measure, the mask, is not a political occurrence, it is a public health measure. Therefore, when you withdraw it can not be a political occurrence of your group either, but after a process of collective decision, scientific reflection and with the greatest possible consensus for it. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, with regard to the mask, they did not provide any element to achieve that consensus; in two years of pandemic nothing in this regard, and we see that they still do not do so. The question is not to be the first to say so; the question is to be timely and, especially, not opportunistic. We believe that there must come a time when the different institutions coincide when and how these measures should be taken. That is why we are not going to support your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u59	Thank you, Madam President. When the representative of Citizens told us that it is a proposal that we should not bring, he is absolutely right: they should not have brought it. This matter, a matter related to public health, cannot become a political dispute. He said they had been accused on previous occasions of populists and irresponsibles. I am afraid that on this occasion we also have to say the same - I have not been the only one and other speakers will come -: populists and irresponsible, especially on a day like today, where the press points out that health experts are asking to keep the mask in public transport, that the Alert Office should forward to the Public Health Commission its recommendation not to remove the mask in this area, and that it will be the Public Health Commission that has the last word. It's news today. They are therefore irresponsible and populist. We are aware - of course we are, like everyone else - of the tiredness of the population and of the people's desire to forget the mask definitively, but I believe that we should be guided by the principle of prudence and take action on the basis of the information provided by the technical indicators of disease evolution and not for other reasons; and much less so than the Congress of Deputies decides, but, if necessary, the health authorities are. On the other hand, it is true that there is also a need for agility in decisions and speed in reacting as these health indicators come. It seems good to us that this Congress does not have to be approving or deciding by law the use or non-use of the mask, and it seems good to us that the Government can regulate by decree. And so we voted on the decree, but we also stated that this decree law should be treated as a bill to be more effective and to bring it into line with the powers of the State. Because while we agree that the Government can change the use of the mask by means of a royal decree, the autonomous health authorities should be empowered to change its use in the light of the epidemiological situation in their territory. We agree with the Government of the State to do so, but what we do not agree with is that it is only this empowerment for the Government of the State. With the exclusive authorization of the Government of the State to make this decision, whenever an autonomous community wants to change the use of the mask in its territory, for example in school transport or inter-territorial transport, it has to ask the Government of the State to change its use. This does not seem to us to be agile or effective and, moreover, we believe that these are two compatible qualifications. Government should be used when there is a homogeneous state or European situation, but experience has taught us in the last two years that the pandemic appears more intensely and earlier in some territories, and that gaining agility to cut off the spread of the virus is very important. In short, first of all, it makes no sense for Congress, on the basis of the will of Members of Parliament, to decide on this matter and have to do so by health experts on the basis of technical indicators. Secondly, on the basis of that, decisions must be taken. If conditions are the same throughout the State or if they are at European level, the autonomous communities should be empowered to make rapid decisions if there are specific opinions in some areas. Of course, we will vote against this proposal - we say it again - populist and irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u61	Thank you, President. To date, the Spanish State is practically an exception in Europe regarding the compulsory use of masks in public transport. Only Germany and Greece maintain this compulsory use and, in many cases, it has become only one recommendation. In this sense, we find incoherences such as that the Spanish State is the only country that maintains the obligatory mask on planes - on all flights with origin or destination in Spain its use is obligatory, when in the rest of the European countries it is no longer -, not to mention that the degree of compliance of this measure on the metro or on the bus is less and less. Much of the citizenry is exhausted and is increasingly aware of this type of inconsistency. Today, intensive care units have the lowest level of occupancy since the beginning of the pandemic, but we continue to maintain exceptional measures such as the mandatory use of masks in public transport. It should be recognized that throughout the pandemic, citizens have continued to crack down on all restrictions and measures imposed by the Government and the various autonomous governments. I want, from here, to thank all those responsible people who have done so, but I also want to warn that it can be counterproductive to keep in place measures that fewer and fewer people understand. However, we have always argued that it is the autonomous communities that should ultimately decide on the descalation in the use of masks and that it is the autonomous communities that have the competence in health and primary care and, therefore, those that have to manage according to the incidence of the virus in each territory. Obviously, if there are issues that affect the whole State in general, it must be decided in a consensual manner in the Inter-Territorial Health Council. However, we believe that all of this was broken when the Government decided to validate a royal decree law for the compulsory wearing of masks in public transport and in various establishments throughout the State. That is why, depending on the negotiated text that is put to the vote, we will decide on the meaning of the vote. On the one hand, in PeCAT we see the need to move forward in the descalation and follow the steps of most European countries by withdrawing the compulsory use of the mask, but, on the other hand, we believe that from the beginning this decision should have been made by the autonomous communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. For the Confederal Parliament of the United Nations Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Medel Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u63	Good afternoon. There are times when we feel offended, very offended, by the interventions of other Members. I believe that bringing back here repeatedly a PNL on masks is no reason for one to want to claim himself. I understand, but I don't think that's reason enough. Mrs Romero, the first part of your speech is contradicted by the second, because the summary of all this is that you are against that GNP; that is, only under scientific criteria can masks be removed. Preventive medicine specialists, epidemiologists and public health experts are quite tired of bringing proposals here that we have to vote on because it is not the right place to make such decisions. They do not concern us simply because we are not experts in public health or epidemiology. And even if the Citizens Group is told repeatedly what scientific evidence is, that it is often difficult to draw conclusions, that there are studies and clinical trials and that, due to the complexity and characteristics, it is difficult to control all the variables that act on them, it is difficult to make clear decisions compared to other studies, also scientific, but whose evidence is much higher. It all depends on what is studied and the model that is applied. That is so and that is what makes the experts who have to decide whether or not to remove the masks and how they are extremely prudent and doubtful, because we have to value a lot of things, including the consequences of something whose scientific evidence is impossible to be too high, but which is common sense to say: if we go a thousand people in a meter all glued, just like the mask protects us. That is the reality of the matter. [[Applauds]] Why don't you let the experts keep working? I just don't get it! Because, in fact, in this GNP on whether to remove the mask or not, what you are proposing is that, for some hidden reason, the government restricts the freedom of people by forcing them to wear a mask. It doesn't matter what the mask is for; whether it saves you from death or not it saves you gives the same thing. You are the one who really proposes that this government wants to tie us up, with the gag. That's the idea you're transmitting here. That only sows mistrust because, although you say that the actions of the government create doubts, you create them. If the government wants people to wear masks on public transport and on certain premises it will be to protect them. I don't know why you and the Citizens' Group come up with these ideas. They've got her on the mask! You are the only defenders of freedom, and every time you come here you say: I am free and, all of you, in a sense, are scum and the worst because you work against freedom. That's what's translucent behind all that. What freedom are you defending? The freedom not to wear masks, even if it is not clear that it can or cannot be removed? The individual freedom that the rich don't pay taxes, for example? The freedom for certain German companies to own and control a large number of public private hospitals in the Community of Madrid? [[Applauds]] That is their liberal type, the freedom of those who have, of the rich, against the freedom of those who have nothing. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Medel. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u65	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Citizens propose the cessation of compulsory masks in public transport and in some health facilities such as pharmacies and optics. Six months ago they tabled a similar, more fearful motion, and VOX tabled an amendment to remove the mandatory masks for all persons of any age in all areas, except within health centres. I say this because in the exhibition of this proposition it is said that Citizens stayed alone in this abolitionist petition, let's say so, and the only explanation that I think of is that they have problems of memory or identity, because, as it is now the liberals, it can be because of that. [[Laughter]] Despite this, we will support this non-law proposal, but first I want to highlight several facts. First of all, here we have been suddenly proposed by the Lordship of Podemos a government of experts, but I will point out a number of facts. The predominant variant, BA.5, is the most contagious; COVID-19 has changed and now it can be said that mortality is similar to that of influenza. The government's obligation is for all types of masks, but it turns out that fabric masks serve nothing, that surgery does not serve just the BA5 variant, and that the utility of masks at the population level has only been demonstrated for FFP2 masks and in health environments. Point. There are no publications that have demonstrated the usefulness of masks in public transport; I repeat, there are no publications. Vulnerable people could benefit from the use of FFP2 masks, but if the Government wanted to prescribe FFP2 masks to protect them, they should only be for vulnerable people, who would have to pay the equivalent of half a litre of milk, 600 millilitres of juice and three eggs. If the masks remain compulsory, as Don Simón claims - when the Spanish know that the expert who says that the masks have to be compulsory is Don Fernando Simón, they will immediately be removed - and if the masks have to be financed, it would have to be as proposed by VOX: financed by the State and not by the Spanish pocket. [[applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group and Mr Díaz Gómez of the Citizens' Group]] But the government prefers to seize VAT to fill the pockets of the chiringuitos who want to corrupt our children and our grandchildren, both with sex and drugs. [[Applauds]] From this rostrum we demand that the public health committee make public the deliberations and the evidence supporting all its decisions and, also - because it has to apply article 11 of Law 33/2011 - the Spaniards have the right to know it. We also call on scientific societies to be courageous and honest, to make their recommendations public, to see their foundations and to communicate them to all Spaniards so that they have real, verifiable and real-time information. Ladies and gentlemen, we need selective shields, not global impositions. The VOX Parliamentary Group has proposed all the measures - which have been many and you know it - to combat the epidemic from scientific evidence and under the premise of non-compulsoryness. In VOX we believe that the Spaniards have the common sense enough to understand all kinds of reasoned recommendations and, therefore, we reject the obligatory masks, because they are useless to the vast majority and because in these moments of hardship people will have to choose between masks, heating or food. [[A Member of Parliament: Hala!]] We announce that we will reject any totalitarian and frightening imposition in the conviction that this Government has taken advantage of it, exploited it and, if we leave it, used it for illegitimate and illegal purposes. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Steegmann. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Andrés Añón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u67	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, Liberals, Reformed Liberals and Constitutionalists, up to nine times in plenary and the Commission have presented the withdrawal of the use of masks since February 2021; a series of repeated petitions that often coincided with the Government's decision to remove the mask in the case of exteriors and interiors, petitions that you made with the attempt to arrogate that withdrawal, that decision of the Government. But that's not the case, that's his way of doing opportunistic and populist parliamentary activity to which we are accustomed. The masks will be removed on the outside and inside and, when decided, on public transport and in the rest of the sanitary spaces and facilities, which you have not named here today with all the letters. Why have you not mentioned pharmacies, orthopedias, optics and audiometry establishments, where there are vulnerable people? Why don't you tell vulnerable people that you decide on the risk of removing them? The withdrawal of the masks is not due to your repeated requests, but because of the complex, very complex work, of the presentation of alerts and of the public health professionals, those you applauded here do nothing and of those who felt so proud being so patriotic, and also because of the complex, very complex work of uniting and agreeing positions in a different territory as we live in. [[applause]] From here, my appreciation to the governments of the autonomous communities that make that effort, not you. Today we have attended a speech here not only, I would say, of contempt for public health professionals and those who govern our autonomous communities, but of lack of rigour. You here have compared, for example, the Nordic countries with us. Of course it's not the same! Obviously, neither their mobility, nor their interaction, nor anything. As you like to talk a lot about mental health, on what scientific studies and on what health criteria are you based when you say that the mask now, in its current use, causes more mental health damage than benefits in public health? Our parliamentary group does not speak in vain when it talks about public health and does not take it lightly. Our Government has as a priority public health: it has developed the national mental health strategy and has developed the Mental Health Action Plan and COVID-19 with a very impoverished health system by the governments of the People's Party that were already engaged at the time, in 2009, when they left the mental health strategy frozen, to achieve the 1% well-being that private health could afford, rather than strengthening the public services that 99 per cent of the population need. If you want to work for freedom, work for the freedom that creates equal opportunities. If they are concerned about older people going to pharmacies, vote in favour and support the upgrading of pensions. If you are worried about students who go to the optics, support the budgets, which have the highest scholarship budget in our democracy. And if you want to support all the measures that will benefit public transport travel, vote in favour of the transport bonus, which does solve a real need for all citizens who use public transport on a daily basis. Work for freedom, which gives equal opportunities; let public health professionals work; trust them and trust the governments of the autonomous communities, which, by the way, together with the Government of Spain, the World Health Organization has acknowledged and congratulated on the management of the pandemic. It seems that this is the afternoon of the misconceptions, because we have a People's Party that disengages from the administration and management of the pandemic of its governments and a political party that is said to be rigorous, that appeals to freedom and that voted against everything that generates it. Think about it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Andres. Mr Díaz Gómez, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u69	No, no, The vote will take place on their terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u70	Thank you very much. - THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP ON UPDATE OF TYPE COSTS. [[Mrs Fernández Perez]] [[File number 162/001096]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u71	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Pérez, on updating the standard costs. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u73	One second, Mrs. Férnandez. Please, keep quiet! Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I come to explain and defend the updating of standard freight costs. The standard costs of freight transport are the reference costs that are taken as a value to subsidize the transport of goods on my land and are regulated in the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, are authorized by the European Union and are regulated in several royal decrees of the Government of Spain, but in truth so much legislation serves nothing, and I will explain to you why. Because when the one who has to rule is cheating on the lonely and creating perversions of the system like the ones I am going to explain to them, it is that this proposal is nothing but about compliance with the Economic and Fiscal Regime and with transport subsidies. The perversion I'm talking about is that these typical costs since 2019 are not real costs, they are not the real costs that a freight company is struggling to move the goods. And what's going on? As companies are paying costs four times over the price that the government says it is and, which was a 100% bonus, it becomes a 30% bonus at best or 20%. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to contextualize my speech because there are certain breaches that hurt more depending on the historical moment in which we find ourselves. We started from a COVID that paralyzed everything and, when the world wanted to rearm, connections were lost and the freights rose by 800 %; then came an inflation, and this inflation is aggravated by the war of Ukraine - eye! I am talking to you about what has happened since 2020, not a few months ago - and in the midst of all this chaos is the canary primary and industrial sector dying because it cannot bear all this weight without impacting the costs on the citizen's pocket, which is the final recipient. Ladies and gentlemen, for an idea to be made, the cost of ultra-peripherality and dual insularity for freight transport amounts to EUR 3 billion. To put it in perspective with the Canary economy, that accounts for 3% of the revenue of all Canary enterprises. This is the extra cost of transporting the goods and this compensation formula comes to alleviate that. If this compensation formula is altered by the back door so that where it says 100 percent, it stays at 20 percent, we're not getting anywhere. For those who want to think that this GNP is partyist to wear down the government, nothing further from reality. This GNP has been adopted unanimously twice in the Canarian Parliament. That is, those who rule there, who are the same as those who rule here, have told those who rule here to comply with this, simply. And if this seems to you to be a little argument, I say to you that this GNP does not go to the Parliament of the Canary Islands for magic, but is driven by a sector that does not bear so much extra cost of energy, diesel and raw materials; they can no longer bear it. In the end, a measure, which will promote the equalization of Canary enterprises with those of the rest of the territory, is becoming a necessary measure for the survival of many Canary enterprises. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a perfect storm and here day and day we are also adopting short-term measures to help get out of this crisis. These short-term measures are of no use if, when we have functioning structural measures, we do not comply with them, we do not respect them or we do not reinforce them. We can't get out of the chest of having given a billion to transport when you take 3000 out of the back door. That's not a good policy. If we have a structural measure that works, make it work. And I don't deserve to be told: Maria, since 2019, the typical costs are published and we are meeting the REF. No, those kind of costs aren't real. Companies are paying four times as much as their standard costs say. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stress the following - it seems that we are talking only about companies and we are not talking only about companies - and that is that the impact on my land, in the Canary Islands, is direct, first, because it is true that companies create economy and employment and, second, because in the Canary Islands we have the most expensive shopping basket in Spain. The fact that these types of measures are not being implemented as they have to be implemented means that, in the end, companies will impact the cost of the citizen. And there's no aunt of yours! I'm going to give you household data. They all expect inflation to cost the average peninsular family 800 euros a year. Do you know what that means for the middle Canarian family? More than a thousand euros a year and that, again, put it in the context of my land, with the lowest wages in all the Spanish territory. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just told you in four minutes how easy it is to fail to comply with a canary regulation adopted unanimously by the back door; that is simple. And, no matter how many laps they give you and how much they want to sell it to me, it's a breach of the REF. Canarian companies are paying four times as much as the government says transport is worth, that government that doesn't want to leave anyone behind. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you can understand what I have just explained and that you will vote in favour of this GNP, which comes to call for compliance with the economic and fiscal regime, that these typical costs are updated every year in the first six months and that a committee is set up to monitor and ensure that this is achieved. And the comrades of the Socialist Party I ask for consistency. I hope that it will not happen as usual, that what is approved in the Canary Islands is rejected in Madrid. And to conclude, very quickly, I thank the amendments by Citizens and PP, of technical improvement. I thank you for the measure, although I will not accept it, because I am interested in it being approved in its entirety, as this comes from the Parliament of the Canary Islands. And I say to the Socialist Party that we continue to engage in dialogue; we are in time to resolve this inconsistency and to approve what is approved in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. In defence of the amendments tabled by your groups, Mr López-Bas Valero is speaking by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Fernández, I say to you that my group, Citizens, as I have already said, will vote in favour of the GNP that you bring us to the plenary simply by asking for something that is purely logical, and that is that the law is enforced. And it is already sad that in this legislature we have to come up with initiatives at this stage to ask the rest of the groups to support someone precisely to ask the government simply something as simple as complying with the law that is in force. And it is that, when we read the points of the proposed part of your GNP, you see that you are asking for compliance with Article 7 of Law 19/1994, after your reform of 2018; a law that precisely aimed to strengthen the Economic and Fiscal Regime in the field of transport, which is as specific and as typical of the Canary Islands as necessary due to its nature as outermost territory. In fact, its GNP reproduces in its proposed part, in its first three points of agreement, literally what are legal mandates, expressed in this article 7 of the law. Although it is true that you only refer expressly to paragraph 3 of this article on the basis of your proposal for agreement No 1, and you also understand, as you have told us, that it is a text that comes from the Canarian Parliament and, therefore, in a way that formally obliges you to keep the text in full, we have nevertheless amended your GNP, only in order to improve the wording of the points of agreement so that all of them make specific reference to the relevant paragraphs of Article 7 of the 1994 Act. That is why, as you do with your proposal for agreement No 1 on Article 7(3), we propose that point 2 should refer to Article 7(4) and point 3 should refer expressly to Article 7(6). We understand this simply by urging a much more technically correct and clearer way to comply with the provisions of article 7 of the 1994 Act. In fact, we believe that it makes it even more clear and explicit that the law is precisely being enforced, which is what the Government is asking for. We think it is perfect that the only question that is asked in its GNP, which is not initially provided for in the law, is that this annual update should be approved within the first six months following the annuality of its previous implementation. In any case, for our part, the will is, indeed, that the Special Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands be complied with and that it be done as we have been demanding within the framework of the measures to alleviate the effects of the successive crises that have been affecting us since the beginning of 2020, that it be done with justice. And to do so with justice is in the sense of the maximum Aristotelian to give to those who are equal what is equal or treat in an equal way to those who are equal and in an unequal way to those who are unequal, and this obliges precisely to recognize and remember the objective fact of the situation of the outermost regions of the Canary Islands, which places this territory of Spain in a situation of inequality with respect to the rest of the State in terms of transport costs. It is therefore clear and fair that he should be treated in an unequal way, and that objective differential treatment is precisely what is reflected in the economic and fiscal regime of that Act of 1994, which he has completed in this 2022 fifty years, since his first precedent already dates back to 1972. Your subsequent recognition by the European Union, as you yourself have said, is nothing more than a sign of its legitimacy and necessity, and so in Citizens we will not hesitate to demand its full compliance. In addition, Mrs Fernández, we are asking for what Citizens in the Autonomous Parliament have asked for from our spokesman, Ricardo Fernández de la Puente, that is, that this should be done quickly, because the singularity of the Canary Islands requires, on the one hand, the same or similar measures that are taken in the rest of Spain, but also that the bases of those measures which correspond to this Canary territory be updated in a specific way. And, as my spokesman in the Canarian Parliament said, what is claimed is not gifts, they are rights, and they are also legally recognized. So, regardless of the acceptance of the amendment, I end up as I started, Mrs Fernández, welcoming your initiative, contributing with our amendment, as I said, to improve it technically, and, if you will, accept it, and, in any case, regretting that you will have to come to this plenary to ask this government to simply comply with the law, although, as I said at the beginning, it is not something that, unfortunately, has already caused us a lot of surprise. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u77	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. I would ask you to keep your conversations in a lower tone, as it is impossible to follow the dialogue of the person in the gallery. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos, Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to insist on the tone of the talks, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u78	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Balearic Islands and, even more so because of the outermost regions, the Canary Islands must bear additional costs not only because of distance but also because of the need to cross the sea. We do not have, like the rest of the peninsular autonomous communities, a railway or a road through which we can transport people and goods, so that companies can evolve without hindrance, on equal terms with the rest. In the case of the Canary Islands, the Government of Spain has established in Article 7 of the Economic and Fiscal System the determination of the standard costs, the updating of which deals with this GNP. I want to make several points. The Government already calculates the standard costs each year on the basis of data collected from air and sea operators, as laid down in the regulations. The first point of your GNP is therefore unnecessary. [[Rumors]] The General Administration of the State is already gathering information from independent operators operating on this route...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u80	... which is published in the network of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. The compensable costs are set out in the implementing legislation, in Article 6 of Royal Decree 552/2020 of 2 June, and in Article 7 of Royal Decree 147/2019 of 15 March. Thus, both regulations include and specify countervailable costs, such as the costs of handling goods at ports or airports of origin and destination, charges at port or airport stations applied directly to goods transported or the costs of security and safety checks. However, we believe that it is important to update the types and speed up their processing. That is why we have tabled a replacement amendment, with which, frankly, without taking into account the duplicity of its GNP, we believe that management can be improved. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jover. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Fernández, you have done some historical analysis of the initiative and, indeed, I think that could be considered as stretching the gum, that is, you have copied exactly the same initiative that you have presented in the Senate, and it comes from a non-legislative proposal adopted last week in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. Although you spoke of two GNPs, really the origin of everything is a motion for a resolution which was adopted in the debate on the state of evil so-called canarian nationality. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the PSOE, I don't know how canaries can be fooled with that of canarian nationality. It is a name that has been used in the Parliament of the Canary Islands which you have given for good, and I would like to know if any of you, when you fill out a form where you put nationality, write Canary Islands. There is no canarian nationality. [[Applauds]] In addition, it seems that we will have to get to that autonomous police that the canaries we call guanchancha because it lacks absolute meaning - it founded the Canary Coalition for greater glory of its president, in order to be able to move with the helicopter, and for a few more things -, in order to end up telling them that the Canary nationality does not exist, as it has happened elsewhere in this country. [[Applauds]] As far as the content of the initiative is concerned, we have tabled two amendments, and, of course, it has thanked all the amendments but it has not been agreed with us. The first is for technical reasons, because points 1 and 4 are absolutely redundant, because they say exactly the same thing with different words, so I understand that one of them should be deleted. In paragraph 3, they insist on the creation of a joint committee of the Government of the Canary Islands and the Government of Spain to monitor and evaluate the subsidies provided for the transport aid of the Canary Islands. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Canary Islands, the aid we can have in our capacity as the outermost region of the European Union is not specific to the Canary Islands, but is specific and negotiated by the Kingdom of Spain, because you will know, I suppose, that the subjects of original law in the field of international relations are the States, and not the regions. Therefore, the only one with the competence to monitor and evaluate such aid is the State, the Kingdom of Spain. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, I think that the aid provided for in this framework of the outermost region of the European Union is very good, but it needs to be updated. Indeed, it is accelerating by the pandemic and the rather high inflation that we are suffering, but we need to update them. We must do so, I think it is very good that you demand it, but perhaps, after you have been in the Canary Islands for almost three decades, what we need to do more is to create a framework where economic activity can be developed, and not just for a few, because, for example, you did not want to talk about the AIEM, which is something we have in the Canary Islands, something that you have promoted and protected for your business friends, very little. It is quite contrary to the tax of the rich, of which they so much like to talk to those on the left. It is a tax that all canaries pay to help very few, friends of the Canary Coalition. [[Applauds]] Finally, they are blaming this Government for its lack of work, which it has said was not going to leave anyone behind. Be clear, because this government is here for your support. It is true that his partner did not want to support him in the investiture and cost him a sanction, but be clear. What is the position of Coalition Canaria? I understand that if it was sanctioned, it is because they want to support this Government. And they also supported him when the motion of censure came forward, not proving it, and they have supported him on many other occasions. Be clear, because Spain wants to decide and has to have clear ideas. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u83	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Pérez Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u84	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the substance of the matter of this initiative should not be subject to the slightest discussion or interpretation, since the mere approach is one that must be complied with in the Spanish legal system. I would therefore like to say that in this particular case Article 7.1 of our case, the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, is to be respected and implemented, as is the whole content of the REF package, which is sacred and with whose implementation and enforcement it is not in any case a charitable work by the government in charge. Since President Sánchez sleeps in the Moncloa and summer in La Mareta, year after year, on the occasion of the process of drawing up the general budgets of the State, we have been witnessing how repeatedly the allocation of items linked to the precepts enshrined in the REF, which are directly victims of a blast without the slightest concealment, and, for the most part, with the acquiescence always of the canarian representatives of the Socialist Party in Madrid and the consent of the kinship of the so-called Covenant of Flowers. Proof of this, without going any further, are the general budgets in force. You, canarian socialist lords, were complicit in how you ignored and failed to comply with up to eleven precepts embodied in the REF, in addition to practicing a totum revolution with the funds associated with the special regime of the islands with the annual investments of the state government. Therefore, one more year and over the next few weeks, in the People's Group we will again be very attentive and vigilant in the area of compliance with the REF when the Draft Law on General State Budgets for 2023 is being processed. [[Rumors]] Although the spirit of the non-law proposition is quite clear and does not require much effort of understanding or pedagogical type, I would not like to miss the opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u85	One moment, please, Mrs. Pérez. It is impossible to follow the person who is in the gallery. I would really beg you to keep your conversations down.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u86	As I say, I would not like to miss the opportunity offered today to highlight the importance of ensuring, in particular, to our industrial and primary sectors the payment of a hundred percent of what is really the cost of maritime and air freight transport, and to remind with the hammer pylon technique that the dear Canary Islands have a number of structural competitive disadvantages and, therefore, we must constantly put into value our unique features in armored theory, in order to make it possible to compete within the single market under the best possible conditions, especially now, in the context of a globalised economy that is becoming increasingly uncertain and complex. [[applause]] So apply to this, proceed as soon as possible to update the rates, with the costs out of date since 2019, and make it a reality that the Canarian productive fabric, which over the past two years has been drawing all kinds of adversities and absolutely disproportionate costs, can continue to operate in a more competitive environment every day, without being compromised its viability or short-term subsistence, or, otherwise, many Canarian companies can be caught up in bankruptcy sooner than later. In conclusion, I would like to add that my group has tabled an amendment to point 5 of the text, in line with what we already tabled in the Parliament of the Canary Islands last week before an initiative on this subject, which was unanimously adopted by all groups with our amendment, and I hope that Mrs Fernández will, for consistency, accept it. The amendment is aimed at ensuring that compensation for the cost of maritime and air transport of inter-island goods and between the Canary Islands and the peninsula or between the islands and other countries of the European Union is 100 per cent of the actual cost, as the European authorities have authorised and collects our REF, and that payment is made for their compensation in two instalments, half in the first quarter of the past year and the rest in the third quarter of the past year, as demanded by the industrial and primary sectors of our islands. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, comply with the REF Act, which says compensation of 100 percent of the actual cost, and stop cheating, as they did in Royal Decree 552/2020 of 2 June, where they hurled the canaries talking about compensation of up to 100 percent of the costs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u87	For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u88	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Fernández, do not lie, do not say that the text that was adopted last week in the Parliament of the Canary Islands is the same as it is here today, because you know that is not true. Two points were adopted in the text of last week's Canarian Parliament, while the one that is brought here today has five. [[Applauds]] This GNP is much more extensive than it was last week in the Parliament of the Canary Islands, and you know that we have tabled an amendment to try to have sex with you and accommodate all your requests and that we are hand in hand, with all the predisposition and that we have collected practically everything you have asked of us. Lying is ugly, let's not start the debate like this. It gives me the impression, and the truth is that I would like to be wrong, that what you intend to do is not reach any agreement, that what you intend to do is to get a vote against saying that what is approved here is the same as in the Canary Islands, when you know that it is not true. I say one thing to you and to the whole House: If there is any political party that has understood and understood and defended the Canarian singularity, it has certainly been and is the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] It was the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero that increased the discount for Canarian residents from 33 % to 50 % and the subsidy for the transport of goods from 35 % to 50 % and it was the government of Pedro Sánchez that favored and financed the connectivity of the islands with the outside and between them with the subsidies of 75 % for the transport of passengers. On the other hand, the People's Party has done the opposite. For example, in 2014, with Mariano Rajoy, the management of the maritime line of public interest with Huelva was competitive, establishing only mandatory ports of call in the ports of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria and Santa Cruz de Tenerife and eliminating the obligation to dock in Lanzarote, Fuerteventura and La Palma. In the face of the decrease in communications between the archipelago and the peninsula, political pressure and citizen complaint were not allowed to wait, and it was the Government of Pedro Sánchez that approved the agreement declaring them in the public interest and establishing public service obligations on certain shipping lines. In addition to the routes Huelva-Santa Cruz de Tenerife and Huelva-Las Palmas, Cádiz-Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Cádiz-Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Cádiz-Arrecife, Cádiz-Puerto del Rosario and Cádiz-Santa Cruz de La Palma have been added, thus recovering connectivity with Lanzarote, Fuerteventura and La Palma, eliminated by the Popular Party. And it was also the People's Party that failed to comply with the road agreement with the Canary Islands. And what did the Autonomous Community do? Report Mariano Rajoy's government to the courts. Finally, justice gave reason to the archipelago. And who enforces the court decision? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party, since in the budget of 2023 the Canary Islands will have 238 million of the surplus for the purpose decided by the autonomous administration, as well as another 407 million that will be part of the road infrastructure programme. [[Applauds]] Focusing now on updating the standard costs, the reason for the GNP, it seems that the update does not take place annually, it seems that data will not be collected from air and sea operators, it seems that compensable costs will not be contemplated and it seems that the regulations will not be complied with, but nothing further from the reality, Mrs Fernández. All the above-mentioned issues are being addressed and, as it cannot be otherwise, will continue to be implemented, and in this respect I would like again to recall the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in reaching agreements and being able to have a text that is satisfactory to both parties. With regard to the Canary Islands Coalition, the eternal complaint, that the Socialist Government ill-treats us - I do not see that they say that of the People's Party when it is in government - and that of its autonomous senator, Mr Clavijo, speaking of the extermination of the Canary Islands, I would like to say that this people's Government has increased by 15% the non-contributory retirement and disability pensions, which has introduced minimum living income, approved a labour reform that has contributed to lower unemployment rates, increased education grants and raised the minimum wage to EUR 1,000. Undoubtedly, the people's government has benefited thousands of canaries and canaries. Do you know why these measures favour the Canary Islands in particular? Because twenty-three years of the Canary Coalition government have achieved that lower wages, lower pensions and higher rates of poverty and exclusion are concentrated in the Canary Islands, and that is what Pedro Sánchez's progressive government is responding to. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u89	Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group in position-setting. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u90	Thank you, President. Simply and very briefly, we are going to vote in favour of GNP because, in the end, the Canary Islands' economic and fiscal regime is being complied with to change the standard costs of transport compensation, and all this to protect its competitiveness. The costs of transporting maritime and air goods between the islands and between the Canary Islands and the peninsula and Europe have increased significantly, particularly in recent years as a result of the pandemic and energy prices; costs set by the Government, without this having been done, that is to say, prices have risen but the Government has not increased the standard costs in the same way. Therefore, the only thing called for by this initiative is compliance with a law and the status of autonomy, which is an organic law and therefore an obligatory one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández, do you accept any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u92	No, we do not accept the amendments made and we want the text to be fully adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u94	We are now discussing the motion for urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno, on the implementation of a distance work plan for the public sector that will contribute to territorial cohesion and the fight against depopulation. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Guitarte Gimeno has the floor. [[Rumors]] I would beg you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u95	President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion as a result of an inquiry to the Minister of Finance and Public Service, whom we brought to the plenary session of the Congress, comes after last week's debate, in which the possibilities of teleworking in the public administration and its ability to contribute to the fight against depopulation were evidenced if this possibility is linked to that of residing in the unpopulated areas. In other words, it runs contrary to the content of the proposal that the Ministry of Finance had distributed in a work plan in its own delegations and in which the number of teleworking days was limited to a maximum of two and also not consecutive, while there was no connection with the process of linking the teleworking mode with the residence in unpopulated areas. On the contrary, our motion proposes a project for public administrations on teleworking from the rural environment and unpopulated areas that facilitates the residence of public employees in emptied Spain and that links these two processes: on the one hand, that teleworking acquires a relevant role in public administrations and entities, since it has already been shown that it offers substantial advantages both for productivity and quality of service as well as for the workers, officials and public employees themselves, and on the other, to take advantage of this process of flexibility in the place of residence that involves teleworking for public employees who use it to facilitate its installation as new residents in rural areas and areas affected by depopulation. In other words, it is a question of new inhabitants arriving in Spain emptyed or, in some cases, of having people settled in a stable way who return in occasional periods or at times when mobility allows them to reach their job. The motion therefore proposes that the Government encourage public employees to telework from rural areas and areas affected by depopulation. Of course, in order to be able to telework from the rural environment, it is necessary to remember the urgent need to complete in these localities the implementation of quality telecommunications networks, with fiber optics, 4G or 5G networks and mobile telephone coverage. Solving this, the proposal is addressed to public employees whose job is located anywhere in the State and whose unit determines that they can develop their professional activity through teleworking. To this end, it will be essential for public employees participating in this 90 % teleworking mode to establish their residence in rural areas and in areas affected by depopulation. This proposal is therefore necessarily intended for public employees who now work in large cities within public administrations and entities, because the offices, workplaces and headquarters with the highest number of public sector jobs are precisely located in these large cities. The implementation of this proposal should facilitate the arrival of these new inhabitants in rural areas by means of a procedure which must meet the aforementioned objectives, which must respect the employee's freedom and which must be ordered by the Administration and be transparent in its management. Surely, almost all of you may know cases of people who are public employees who already have contact with the localities of emptied Spain and who may be interested in this telework model linked to the residence. It is true that knowledge, links with origin, family or through knowledge and appreciation of the values of these localities will be fundamental to choose to reside and work from the rural environment. On the other hand, if we look at it from the point of view of the need to deconcentrate public entities, what we are now proposing is another way of deconcentrating the Administration; a diffuse way, in a way of fine rain that is spread across all unpopulated areas and that can be very effective. It is obviously a complementary, but not a substitute, deconcentration of the processes of deconcentration of newly created physical headquarters that the Government claims to have initiated. In this case, the proposal for teleworking from the rural and depopulated regions is directed to existing sites and, taking advantage of the technological change, which can bring public employees closer to small populations, bring this important human capital closer to emptied Spain. A flexible deconcentration of administrations, which adapts to employees and administrations and is very inexpensive, but which will offer very important benefits to the administrations themselves, to public employees, who can earn as a personal and family quality of life, and to the territory, with a new stream of new inhabitants who want to reside in that environment. To this end, it is proposed that public employees who take up this type of work may carry out 90 per cent of their working hours by teleworking, provided that the official public employee who takes up this proposal must be registered in a municipality belonging to an unpopulated rural area or in a small town in a province or region affected by depopulation and also that his residence for teleworking is located in the same locality. We believe that the Government should treat this teleworking proposal from the rural and depopulated regions as a tractor project for the digitisation of public administrations, which should frame it in the context of the Strasbourg Declaration on the common values and challenges of European public administrations of 17 March 2022, which the Ministry of Finance itself has affirmed and which points to the common challenges of public administrations. In the case of digitalisation and teleworking, the aim is to encourage with them the talent of public employees, for the Administration to preach by example and to meet citizens' expectations. It will be necessary to ensure the existence of networks and connectivity of public employees during teleworking and also to ensure the technological safety of equipment. Greater flexibility in forms of work is needed, which will certainly lead to common benefits. Finally, we hope that the proposal will be implemented quickly, that the Ministry of Finance and Public Service will soon offer it to its public employees and that, as soon as possible, all ministries will implement a similar programme and that a code of good practice will be drawn up and disseminated to extend a similar teleworking programme from the rural and depopulated regions to all public administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communo Podemos-Galicia in Communo, Mrs Franco Carmona, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u97	Thank you, President. Measures to curb depopulation and increase the rights and quality of life of people living in rural areas must be one of our country's priorities and, of course, it is for the United Nations. Everyone has been talking about the goodness of telework for more than a decade; more than once, while studying, I went to conferences where they exhibited the wonders of teleworking from, for example, a beach in the Caribbean while drinking a little coconut water. All kinds of barbarities have been talked about to promote telework. Moreover, during the 2008 crisis, while ruling the People's Party, there was even talk of telework as a way to create employment, another magic formula that was less evil than anyone took seriously. In Spain, as you know, teleworking was imposed on a general level on a short-term basis due to the pandemic, in order to stop the contagion and protect the population. There, all those myths about telework fell and no one else is going to be able to talk about telework as a holiday. Why isn't it? In the pandemic we saw the difficulties involved. For example, you have to have an enabled work area, an adapted team in your home or in the place where you go to work, a good line of fiber and coverage, something that is still lacking in rural areas, and, among other issues, public services that take care not to confuse telework with a conciliation measure, because it is not. No one can telework for their business and care for their children or dependents or do household chores at the same time. But teleworking has many positive effects and some of them are presented in this initiative. Some of them are the reduction of the carbon footprint and also the possibility of working from where you live. So far, teleworking was little more than an article in the Workers' Statute, specifically article 16, nothing more. As much as efforts were made to promote teleworking, nothing more was done by previous governments and, in particular, by the People's Party Government. This government, that of the United We Can with the PSOE, is the first government that has taken this really seriously. The Ministry of Labour has already regulated this with Law 10/2021 on Distance Work, and now the Ministry of Public Service is implementing telework in the public administration, with the rule of three days of distance work and two days of face-to-face work and with the intention of extending it to 90% of the working day. In addition, the Government is undertaking other important measures to address the issue of depopulation seriously. We are talking about institutional decentralization so that the localities can house the headquarters of the state public sector. In addition, the same law provides for the possibility of enabling workplaces at the institutional headquarters for those officials who telework or also the programme for the universalization of digital infrastructures, with the aim of extending broadband to cover 100 per cent of the population by 2025, which already last year had a budget of 250 million euros. However, as I said, the People's Party government did not arrive and was not expected, but today we are going to hear the People's Party talk about the defence of rural areas, the need to curb depopulation and we are going to see it absolutely unnoticed. They are not even now clear as to whether or not they support the failed UK tax rebate and are fighting with Díaz Ayuso - who did explicitly support it - and contradict Mr Feijóo - who a few months ago asked to remove taxes from the richest - saying that they no longer support it, while the Government of the People's Party in Andalusia, Mr Moreno Bonilla, has just approved a gift of 5800 euros per year from the IRPF to 0.2% of the richest Andalusians and is concerned about the drought in the golf courses. Having said that, while the main opposition party is coming out of the jam, we can - and I conclude with this - have tabled an amendment together with the Socialist Party supporting what is called for in this motion, which is the implementation of telework up to 90% in the General Administration of the State with a goal that this Government was already working on; a government that does take depopulation seriously and a government that not only has words, but actually acts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Franco. For the Socialist Group, Mr Fagundez Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u99	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I belong to a party that emerged in the 19th century with the claim to make a life easier, more dignified and fairer for the whole working class; a party supported by the hands of those who stand up day by day to carry out their job, to carry out a business or, simply, to contribute with their efforts to the functioning of public services in this country. And it is true that the way we do our work has changed a lot in recent years. Today we are talking here about telework, which is a form of employment that we probably couldn't imagine a few years ago. But what has not changed, ladies and gentlemen, is the pretension that has always guided my party. Because, look, making life easier, more dignified and fairer for the working class remains the essential pillar of social democracy also now, in the 21st century. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has taught us that teleworking is now a reality in our country and that it has certainly come to stay. There is no need to remind anyone, when we were all locked up, how our health workers were the first spearhead to fight the virus, but at best we have to value the thousands of public officials who during those days, thanks to their work from their homes, maintained public services in our country and, above all, guaranteed social benefits for all of them. And today telework is already an option and also has its consequences in many territories. Look, over the past two years, more than 220,000 people have chosen to change their residence from large cities to rural areas or other smaller cities. Only Madrid has lost 60,000 inhabitants. They're small data, but they're starting to set us a trend. And to give these territories their opportunity, we need to create the necessary conditions so that both the rural environment and those areas at risk of depopulation are able to be an option when choosing residence. One of the measures that the Spanish Government has put in place, the decentralization of the institutions, guarantees social cohesion and equal opportunities in these territories at risk of depopulation. Telework is still another form of decentralization of the Administration, which allows many of these territories the opportunity to welcome those people who in normal circumstances would never choose to live there because they are very far away from the productive cores or where employment capacities are generated. The Government of Spain is developing this model of work, making it compatible with the face-to-face jobs that guarantee the non-exclusion of no one in the territory and the non-exclusion of any generation in our country. This regulation of distance work will provide the possibility for public employees - as has been said here - to perform up to 90% of their time in the teleworking service in areas with difficult coverage or in populations at risk of depopulation. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have heard me say more in this rostrum: there is no empty Spain, what there is is a Spain whose inhabitants need more attention, more opportunities and better public services. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we are going to take advantage of this opportunity that telework gives us to give that opportunity to the territories. Connectivity and full digitisation are necessary for this. This Government is aware of and has made a clear commitment to the extension of broadband and 5G technology in our country. When the Socialist Party came to power there was not a 30% of the territory that had the extension of fiber optics; today, more than 85% of the territory already has the extension of broadband, and that is why we can say that we will maintain and fulfil our commitment in the next two years to reach 100% of the territory. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue to focus on working relationships that make the lives of all workers easier, more dignified and fairer, as we have been doing since the founding of our party. Now we are going to take advantage of these new forms of employment to continue fighting depopulation and ensuring territorial cohesion. The demographic challenge has always been a commitment of this Government since the first day we came to power. We're going to keep going and we're going to keep moving in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u101	Thank you very much, President. We are debating a motion calling on the Government to immediately approve a general provision for the application of teleworking to the entire public sector in rural areas and areas depopulated as a right of the public employee when his residence is located in those places and teleworking takes place from his residence, and provided that the performance of the job allows him to do so because of his slight face-to-face workload, while the employee is given the precise material means - digital connectivity, work equipment and cost compensation in Chapter 2 and 6 - that the Administration is spared and that public employees teleworking from his home are transferred. A minimum number of days per teleworking week is available, not less than three or four days per week, including 90 to 100 % of the monthly computing work time. Alongside these measures to combat depopulation and the correlative promotion of territorial cohesion, the Government is also called upon to implement a State programme that includes the autonomous communities and ensures the presence of public administrations in areas affected by depopulation with face-to-face attention. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to be prolific in the presentation of what is being demanded of the Government so that we are aware of the complexity of the effort and that, despite this, the Government is urged to immediately adopt a general state-wide provision. That is, we understand that it has to be a bill or a decree amending the EBEP, therefore a new basic regulation in the field of public employees, in the field of the public sector, of the way it was done with the health crisis by the COVID-19; immediate elaboration of a general provision that only trade union bargaining is claimed, but nothing is said about the autonomous communities, on which it will fall much of what is presented in areas and services of their competence. With this, ladies and gentlemen, our group cannot agree. The only reference to the autonomous communities is a ritual clause 'without prejudice' which, in the light of the initiative and the role that they have to play, we believe is a clause 'in prejudice'. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance has already said this in the debate on the question, and it is also an obvious fact: teleworking has come to stay, and can certainly help as a tool to combat depopulation and improve territorial cohesion, but it cannot be done behind the back and without a deep negotiation with the autonomous communities, because they depend on the public services provided by the welfare state and the implementation of the proposed measure. Telework cannot harm the services provided to citizens; telework requires a determination of administration by administration, service by service, job to job on which jobs can be seen and which cannot; telework requires matching the needs of the service with those of the worker himself; telework requires determining the criteria of areas depopulated or at risk of depopulation and, moreover, which administration should do so and according to what competing circumstances. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, an endless number of determinations which, of course, from our point of view, it is neither good nor desirable for them to be resolved in this way, with a basic rule, with an immediate character - another decree law - and without counting on the autonomous communities, which will depend precisely on the application of much of the rule that is claimed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u103	Thank you, President. After several years living with a pandemic and several months confined, one of the realities that Spanish society has internalized is that of teleworking, a labor response that was raised as a temporary solution, but that not only defined that moment, but could become in the future for many companies and also workers. More and more Spaniards see this work formula as one of the few positive parts left of the pandemic and want to redesign a new work scenario where you can reconcile your professional and personal life and incorporate, in turn, flexibility, interaction, collaboration and also human connections, as needed. The productive model that has been implemented in Spain since the 1970s has made large cities, such as Madrid, Barcelona and others, become the headquarters of a large part of the business fabric, being epicentres that generate employment, and for decades cities have been nourishing themselves with labour from rural areas to develop simply because employment opportunities were there. Emigrating from rural areas to the city was normal, usual and even well valued as a sign of progress and improvement. At present, telework is already a reality for a large part of jobs, which has been consolidated by demonstrating their benefits not only for workers, but also for organisations, such as the savings of structural costs, also of energy in all its forms; improving the productivity of employees through the introduction of this model of work away from mere presence; improving the availability of workers in situations that impede access to a post in person at the moment and also increasing the quality of life and family reconciliation of workers, which generates greater productivity and is already considered as part of the emotional wage. This form of work can and must have a positive impact on another of the most serious problems in our country, which is the gradual abandonment of rural areas encouraged by the harmful idea that if someone wants to develop professionally he can do so face-to-face in large cities. We believe that this is an opportunity for people, but especially for smaller cities, which combine urban services with better quality of life and lower costs. Undoubtedly, its regulated deployment will help many officials decide to move permanently or for long periods or to remain in places at risk of depopulation today, and that would certainly help to boost these territories. At the same time, of course, a number of rules must be laid down to guarantee the working conditions of these workers and all matters relating to the performance of their duties from their home in the form of teleworking. We agree with the text of the motion in which it is necessary to facilitate as much work as possible, encouraging flexibility in face-to-face. Other aspects that will strengthen the option of teleworking as one of the pillars of the Administration should also be strengthened; for example, the phenomenon of transfers has brought to light the problems that led to rural areas. In them, the ageing of the population is compounded by the problems arising - which have already been mentioned here - from the lack of connectivity or also from the quality of that connectivity. Fiber optics, for example, only reaches 71% of rural areas and, moreover, does not always arrive at a desirable speed. The optical fibre reaches only 1.6% of households with populations of less than 100 inhabitants, which make up 1380 of the more than 8100 municipalities in Spain, and only half of those with between 2000 and 5000 neighbours. The connectivity map shows large gaps in Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria, but especially Castile and León, Castile-La Mancha, Aragon and Extremadura. It should also be noted that, in line with this proposal, it is necessary to increase the number of public service offices in these affected areas, in the same way that the financial sector has been directed to ensure face-to-face care in these areas. It makes no sense to ask those who provide an essential service to ensure face-to-face care and, at the same time, not to guarantee on reasonable terms by the Administration. In any case, the proposal put forward by the Joint Group seems to us to be the right way to ensure the reconciliation of public workers with their family life, while at the same time it is a good formula - not the only one, but a good formula - to fight against depopulation, and we will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u105	Thank you, President. Teruel Existe presents to us a motion resulting from urgent questioning on the implementation of a work plan at a distance for the public sector that will contribute to territorial cohesion and the fight against depopulation. That we must fight and add to our efforts to reverse the serious problem of depopulation and territorial cohesion in rural areas is well known to all those who have responsibilities in this area. As mayor of a small village of 1330 inhabitants, but at the same time considered medium within the demarcation of Lleida, since most municipalities do not exceed 300 inhabitants, I have incorporated the phrase 'fight against depopulation' and its meaning in my DNA. Any action aimed at mitigating or reversing the problem of depopulation is to be thanked; however, the motion we are debating today means a further step in the fight against depopulation. To urge the Government to adopt a provision regulating telework in public administrations or public sector entities may be another measure, but, in my humble opinion, it is not the measure, it is not the definitive tool or action to fulfil the objective and end with the constant loss of population in our municipalities. There are several demands that we have been making for a long time in this House, in the various autonomous parliaments and, ultimately, in the various forums where we are given a voice. The rural area, the rural area, is in the UCI; it urgently needs to deploy high-speed digital connectivity networks, as indicated in the present motion, and that the various ministries make the necessary public investments. To give an example, according to data from a study carried out by the Cambra de Comerç de Lleida, the demarcation of Lleida receives only 3% of the total investments of the Ministry of Transport throughout Catalonia. We did not receive investments from the rolling stock and the Mediterranean Corridor. With regard to the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, it invests only 8.4% of the total investment it makes in Catalonia in the demarcation it represented. To defend our primary sector, so that this is a respected sector and that our young people see in it an opportunity to work a worthy future is vital the generational relief to settle young people in the territory, as well as a long range of measures and demands. In point 2 of this motion we are presented with the form of teleworking, from 90 to 100 % of the working day in jobs whose characteristics allow it, provided that they are registered. I would like to stress that being registered does not guarantee that you live in that place or in that rural area. I believe that, apart from the registration, other documents should be provided which show that we really live in that place. We also agree with paragraph 6 of this motion, which calls for an increase in the number of citizenship offices, etc. But I must also tell you, in conclusion, that we are concerned that the text of all emotion mentions little or very little the autonomous communities and their competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u107	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Mr Guitarte, on the motion that brings us here today, we have very much appreciated all the voting options. We agree with you that, in the face of such a major challenge as to combat the demographic challenge, we need a change in the territorial and development model, from a centralized model, which only favours large cities, to a decentralized one which gives prominence to other territorial nodes. From our point of view, the depopulation process is the result of the interaction of different causes and, therefore, its treatment requires a cross-sectional and integral management in all its complexity. For this reason, your proposal, focused on encouraging teleworking for a few, is not the solution. The solution is to invest earlier in the territory. In addition, we see that in his motion there is a clear invasion of competition, as his measures refer to all public administrations. Here we stress the principle of subsidiarity. The solutions proposed should not be proposed from a centrist state perspective, but should be defined from the territory; from the proximity it is from where the solutions are best proposed that, in the end, are most effective in relation to the objective sought. Our solution to balance the territory is to redistribute infrastructure, energy, economic poles, services, but for all citizens and, especially, for those who guarantee the fixing of the population in rural areas, such as the agricultural sector. The agricultural sector is that sector which, day after day, sees its development expectations fading, the result of climate problems, increases in costs and, to finish killing it, state laws, such as, for example, banning the burning of plant waste without a moratorium on time to obtain the resources necessary to adapt to this regulation. [[Applauds]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, without these measures, the Spanish State only sticks to the work of thousands of farmers. For the success of depopulation policies, in our view, we must establish measures for the development and economic diversification of the territory, such as digital rights, which are, for all purposes, a fundamental right; rights which, as citizens, businesses and European institutions of the twenty-first century, we deserve to have perfectly consolidated and guaranteed. If we understand the Internet as a public good, everyone has to be able to enjoy its access on equal terms. It must therefore be universal, equitable, affordable and with the necessary bandwidth, regardless of the personal, labour and socio-economic circumstances of the person concerned. While much progress has been made in recent years, there are still many territories in which this universal access to information and communication technologies cannot be taken for granted. Without these territorial advances first, we generate economic inequalities between territories. And finally, too many times we think, wrongly, that when investing in urban areas, there are many citizens who benefit from investment, but the reality is very different. Action in rural areas is where benefits are provided. [[Applauds]] Because they are not only benefits to the same community, but also to society as a whole, since in rural areas it is where the food and raw materials that we consume afterwards are produced. In short, there is great potential in rural areas to develop new and more sustainable value chains. Let us be more ambitious and empower the companies located in the territory. Only in this way do we benefit society as a whole. For all that, Mr Guitarte, and although we are waiting to see the final text, we cannot support your motion for the time being. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granollers. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u109	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Our position on this motion is going to be abstention, and we think it is a good idea to encourage the settlement of civil servants in rural areas through the empowerment of teleworking. This motion, however, leaves too many loose ends. Telework also has its contraindications. There has been talk of hermit syndrome, that is, the emotional and professional isolation of the worker. The target of up to four days per week of teleworking seems unrealistic to us. But, let us be honest, the main reason why this motion does not finish convincing us is that settling some officials in empty Spain is not going to be exactly the solution to our demographic disaster. The recent study on the ageing of the staff of the General Administration of the State, published in 2012, concludes that the average age of the Spanish official is fifty-one years. Bringing some officials over fifty years of age to finish their working lives in the villages of Soria or Teruel is not going to represent a great rejuvenation for those territories. By the way, provinces such as Teruel, Zamora or Soria, old, unpopulated provinces, offer us an early picture of what the future of Spain will be if we fail to revive our birth. [[Applauds]] It is true that the demographic situation in those provinces is aggravated by the exodus to other areas; for example, it has been estimated that one in five young people in Castile and León leave their region in search of opportunities. But the main reason that half of Spain is being emptied is not that the young people are leaving, but that these young people did not even become born. For example, the province of Teruel has lost 19 per cent of its population since 1976, but if it had maintained the fertility rate of Spain as a whole in 1976, which was 2.7 children per woman, the current population of Teruel, despite the juvenile exodus, would be 14 per cent higher than in 1976. The current fertility rate of Teruel is 1.3 children per woman; in fact, it is one tenth higher than the national average, which is 1.2 children per woman. This means that in Spain as a whole we are 45% below the generational replacement rate, which is 2.1 children per woman; that is, we are having more than half of the children that would be needed to simply ensure the replacement of generations. All of this means that in Spain we are on a path of demographic suicide as a nation. We are the only political group that dares to speak of the sinking of birth as a serious national problem. [[Applauds]] The other parties, especially those of the coalition of government, assume the synecdoch of reducing the so-called demographic challenge to the rural exodus, as if our only demographic problem - and we do not deny that it is a problem - is that the people of Soria or Teruel go to Madrid or Barcelona, and not that not enough children are born. For example, the National Strategy against the Demographic Challenge, approved by this Government, in its dozens of pages does not use words once as a father, mother, children or family; it is that the sinking of birth, together with the progressive disappearance of marriage in Spain - less and less people are married - is one of the causes of the collapse of birth. The weakening of family ties are taboo issues for progressive consensus parties. The left has made its own two anti-natalist ideologies... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u110	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u111	One of them is feminism, which conceives of motherhood as a woman's biological servitude, and, if you don't believe me, you read Simone de Beauvoir. The other is radical ecology, which sees the human species as the cancer of the planet and would like a reduction of the world population to minimize the carbon footprint and human impact on the biosphere. The case is that cases such as that in Hungary show that it is possible to revive a country's birth if appropriate measures are taken. These measures include the promotion of support for the rural environment, serious family taxation, tax breaks according to the number of children, measures of reconciliation between motherhood and work, the encouragement of marriage and the end of feminist indoctrination in schools, as well as corrupt sex education in schools. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u112	Mr. Contreras, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, we need to re-fashion marriage and fatherhood among young people. Survival as a nation is in it for us. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u114	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u115	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a motion that, if implemented, could regulate the teleworking of public administration employees, and thus could improve the arrival of people to municipalities and territories with depopulation problems. My group would therefore agree that these measures should be put in place and thereby encourage the lives of our municipalities. The problem, Mr Guitarte, is not this, the problem is that we have already been in Parliament for three years now Teruel There has been a delay in taking photos, presentations and presenting initiatives like this, because what you should have done already is to demand and implement the measures to which you have committed yourselves. You, Mr Guitarte, by your final vote made Sánchez president of the government and therefore have the capacity and obligation to enforce, among others, that famous investiture pact that you signed. He speaks in this motion of support for teleworking for the public administration and is very well, but, Mr. Guitarte, stop fooling us. Do you know what it takes to telework? A good broadband connection with great data capacity. Mr. Guitarte, do you remember the plan presented by Mariano Rajoy in 2018 in Teruel, the Plan 300x100, 300 megas in 100 percent of the territories with a horizon of the year 2021? Could you tell us here why he was charged? You simply and plainly charged him, because it was a plan of the People's Party. But it is that, in addition, you opposed in a vote in this Congress to fiscally encourage people who could telework. Or don't you remember? Really, Mr. Guitarte, could you tell us here today what measures have been put in place, for example, in the province of Teruel to curb depopulation? I'm telling you, none. Do you know how many measures of this parliamentary agreement of the Socialist Party and Teruel exist have been implemented? I'm telling you, none. What you should do right now is stop providing that support for free or, otherwise, resign. You recognized a few months ago before the media that Sánchez had deceived you, and you are right; in fact, Sánchez has erected himself as the President of the Government of Spain who has not told a single truth to all the Spaniards. You were talking about that famous investiture pact, a state pact for repopulation and territorial rebalancing. Any progress, any measures that have been implemented? I'm telling you, none. They spoke in this pact for the legislature of infrastructure development: A-68, N-330, A-40 and A-25. Any progress, beyond those that were already budgeted in Rajoy's budgets in 2018? I'm telling you, none. And the thermal power plant in Andorra and the fair transition plans, what do they tell us? You, with your support from the Government of Sánchez, shut down and knocked down Andorra's thermal power plant, leaving hundreds of families on the street. By the way, why are just transition plans not yet signed today? Don't you worry, Mr. Guitarte? Only with this fact, the only thing you have really done has been to help depopulate a population like Andorra, which was full of life. Moreover, with you there has been no more euro in the general budgets of 2021 or 2022, for Teruel or for any of the provinces of the interior of Spain; on the contrary, you have voted with this government to support what the independenceists demanded. With your free support for this evil government, all you have really done is go against the unity of Spain. Finally, Madam President, and speaking on labour issues, could you please explain to us today why you have not yet submitted to the Government of Spain for the start-up of tax aid to companies in Teruel, Soria and Cuenca? Mr. Guitar, there's nowhere to take him! I understand that in Valencia you live very well because it is the city of light and love, but if you really want to help develop our province, live in it and pay the taxes, as we are doing, because otherwise, if you confirm what everyone already gives in fact, you are a bluff and a deception for all Turolenses. [[laughs]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u116	Thank you, Mr. Herrero. Mr Guitarte, do you accept your parliamentary group, that is, you yourself, the amendment tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u117	I would like to speak briefly about Mr Herrero Bono's direct remarks. Article 72. [[Several Members: Ooooh!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u118	Mr Guitarte, you can mention the reference to which you refer, but you cannot go into debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u119	I have to say that all Mr Herrero Bono's intervention is a series of lies, among them, that I live in Valencia and that I do not pay my taxes in Teruel. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u120	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u121	In any case, with regard to the amendments, we have reached a compromise with the amendments that we will put to the vote in plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u122	Perfect. Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND THE 2030 AGENDA FOR IMPLEMENTING THE 2030 AGENDA IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000172]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u123	We continue with the motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures that the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 will take to implement the 2030 Agenda in Spain. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Nevado del Campo has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u124	Thank you, President. The 2030 Agenda is the Trojan horse of postcommunism. Let's go with what we call conspiracy. Spain does not deserve that, in the face of this food crisis, farmers cannot grow food, not just because of a question of quotas, but because some billionaire claims to be the world's only food supplier. Here it is: 100,000 hectares, and adding. [[shows a press clipping]] Bill Gates is raising the largest agricultural empire in the United States.' We continue: Spain does not deserve a billionaire club to decide to demonize meat to favor its synthetic food businesses. Here it is: 'Bill Gates: Rich nations should start eating synthetic meat'. [[shows another press clipping]] Spain also does not deserve that families cannot pay for energy, because a group of billionaires who do not speak Spanish have forbidden us to explore and exploit our natural resources. Here it is: 'Bill Gates and Warren Buffett invest in nuclear megaprojects to revolutionize energy'. [[shows another]] Spain does not deserve Pedro Sánchez to give EUR 130 million to Bill Gates. Here it is: 'Pedro Sánchez donates 130 million to an entity founded by Bill Gates'. [[shows another]] Nor do we deserve the 2030 Agenda's impositions to force parents to clean up the garbage that some school children bring because educators mislead them. [[Applauds]] Here it is: 'Get a girl and a child out of class to simulate a blowjob'. [[shows another]] Spain has not come this far so that the Government will become the censor, authoritarian, irresponsible father and supplier of misery, instead of doing what it has to do, which is to promote prosperity and give service to the Spaniards, and that communism needs poor to remain in power. We thought there was nothing more dangerous than the PSOE about to lose an election, but there is, it's the PSOE supported by communists and parties who want to break Spain. [[Applauds]] They took us to the edge of the cliff. This post-communist agenda involves the widespread impoverishment of the population, the liquidation of the sovereignty of nations and is a frontal attack on the families, life and roots of the West. We therefore urge the Government to immediately cease blind obedience to this agenda that has not been designed to improve the lives of the Spaniards. We urge you to give us a voice to decide whether we want a Spain that is confronted and with indignant inequalities between regions or a State that serves unity and solidarity between territories. We have to decide whether we want a Spain blackmailed by separatists or a united and strong Spain; the lie of historical memory and the black legend or the true contribution of Spain to the history and protection of national identity. We must decide whether to destroy jobs or create jobs. The time has come to decide whether we will continue to consent to the demonization of the rural world or whether we will defend hunting, bulls, our customs and traditions. We must choose between eating meat or eating worms; climate fanaticism and green policies that ruin the countryside or the care of the traditional environment; energy dependence and the ruin of families or the conservation and construction of power plants that provide us with energy sovereignty; continuing attacks on or protection of private property; a justice tailored to bipartisanism or a depoliticized and real justice. We must decide between the effect called on the criminals of the world or organized immigration, of quality and defense of our borders; an environment of distrust between men and women and criminal asymmetry or harmony, real equality and reparation for constitutional rights. No woman in Spain should face the drama of aborting because she does not find support for motherhood. [[Applauds]] We do not want the imposition of perverted morale in schools, we want the freedom of parents to choose the education that best suits and that best matches their values and principles. Either we protect the wolf who kills the whole flock to eat a lamb, or we protect the wolf's flock. In front of the culture of death, life; in front of the gag, the word; in front of the censorship of the dissident, democracy; in front of the wolf of Agenda 2030, SantiagoAbascal and its Agenda Spain. Spain deserves to be able to decide. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Nevado. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u126	Sweep on, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I will start with a quote I read a few days ago: 'At sunset you will examine us with love'. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u127	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u128	The 2030 Agenda is built on the basis of three different axes and two added. One, the environment - water, climate action, underwater life and terrestrial ecosystems -, which has little to do with individualism and has little to do with even globalization; it has to do with safeguarding the natural environment in which each of us can live. The backbone of the 2030 Agenda is social: talking about the end of poverty, zero hunger, health and well-being as vectors for building any society, inclusive and equitable education, gender equality or affordable and non-polluting energy or sustainable development and solid and supportive institutions. It also has to do with common action but decided not only at the individual, local or state level, but also for all individuals regardless of their gender, race or condition. The economy is the third axis: decent work for all based on distributed growth, the sustainable infrastructure industry, the reduction of inequalities or responsible production and consumption are other backbones of an action that can only be the product of collaboration among all actors that we can intervene in this area, but above all aimed at the two final vertebrate elements of the 2030 Agenda: peace, as a desire or longing that means many things and to which no one should be able to deny, and partnerships to achieve sustainable development goals and to assist developing countries. However, we have just heard perhaps one of the most disappointing parliamentary initiatives that have been heard in this House, based not only on suppression and denial, but also on the oblivion of the dimension of any of the vertebrate elements of the 2030 Agenda, not only on an individual level, but also on a universal level. Only certain political formations that are no longer ultra-right, but that approach fascism as a totalitarian way of life to exclude individuals by race, gender or condition, and also peoples, can support such absolutely inconvenient arguments; I was going to say entrepreneurship, but rectified and I am going to say so. Well, that talent certainly translates into an initiative like the one we just heard. I won't extend much longer. I am not going to expand on the reasons why I can think that initiatives like this are closer to totalitarianism - I have just said this - than to any extreme system but which shares a system of freedoms, but I am going to go back to the first sentence we have commented on, with which I have started my intervention, which said that in the sunset of life they will examine us of love. That supposes that everything we can do well to contribute to any of the vertebrate axes of this solidarity initiative that is the 2030 Agenda will be possible by excluding any kind of prejudice towards any initiative and any kind of person because of their race, condition, gender or belonging to any collective. I simply want to repeat again: 'At sunset they will examine us of love'; of what we can do for others. It's not a phrase of mine, obviously, it's from San Juan de la Cruz. I recommend that you read it a little bit.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u130	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a motion by the VOX Group and, given the statement made by your representative, I would like to know what your thread is, because there has really been none throughout your presentation. That, yes, carries its unmistakable seal: overflowing sectarianism, ideological prejudices, mix of themes and proposes simple solutions to much more complex problems. The truth is that I am not surprised by this type of proposal, because I am already used to you having equal opportunities situations resolve them by proclaiming that we are all the same according to article 14 of the Constitution, but you forget article 9.2, which obliges us to break down the barriers and obstacles that some groups have. To talk about migration-related situations, the only proposal that the VOX Parliamentary Group always brings us is to criminalize migration. Therefore, you brush fat and always pointing to vulnerable groups when we are talking about issues related to equality, one of the fundamental axes of the 2030 Agenda. What the ladies and gentlemen of VOX are doing is considering that the 2030 Agenda is responsible for all the evils, that it must therefore be eradicated and that the solution to the problems of the Spanish people goes through other issues, but you do not propose solutions to the reality of the citizenry. The 2030 Agenda talks about the problems of education. Aren't education, education quality and school failure some of the issues that have to worry us citizens and politicians? Don't you two worry? Are they also concerned about the circumstance of male-based violence? No, of course, they don't worry, because equality issues don't concern them either; they usually deal with them that way, with that fat brush that we're used to. Similarly, are you concerned about the environment? No, of course, they don't. They are only concerned about the fat brush on each of the topics, but, when we have to work and make proposals, here we see none, because there really is not a single constructive proposal in their motion. This is the tone to which we are accustomed in this House. They reduce the 2030 Agenda to a list of non-binding recommendations - that's what they say -, limiting its importance, but at the same time criticizing the Government's assumption of its indicators and incorporating them into our legal system. Are they just recommendations or are they conditioning the country's policy? Let's see if they're clear on what they set out in their own motion. Also, according to the ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the follow-up to the 2030 Agenda or the fulfilment of the SDGs are the cause of most of the problems of the Spaniards. It is all the fault of the 2030 Agenda: the energy crisis, the low birth rate, the suicide rate of young people or even the pension system. How easy it is, ladies and gentlemen, to blame global society and a supposed hidden ideological agenda for everything, rather than proposing real and effective measures to improve the lives of citizens! Because another of the main objectives of the 2030 Agenda is to address the poverty situation, but perhaps you do not agree with this issue either. I therefore do not understand how they say that the 2030 agenda does not address citizens' problems. [[Rumors]] They should be rigorous, saying that there is a lack of evaluation of the 2030 Agenda, saying that there is a lack of better results in the objectives that are being set. That is why we, Citizens, are able to say clearly that we must defend the 2030 Agenda and demand that the Government comply rigorously with those objectives. Because in education, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I have to tell you that the results are not very good because of dropout rates and school failure rates. [[Rumors]] Although school failure is not a thing they like to talk about, it turns out that there are many children who do not even finish compulsory secondary education. It is also linked to children who come from the most vulnerable socio-economic conditions, as established in the latest ESADE study in this area. But no, no, we prefer not to talk about those issues; let's talk about an educational triumphalism that then does not translate into reality. That is what the 2030 Agenda should assess. It should also assess the 2030 Agenda if the tools that have been set up to address poverty situations are coming or poverty is increasing in our country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u131	Excuse me, Mrs. Giménez, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u132	What we are going to do in Citizens, ladies and gentlemen, is be rigorous in meeting these objectives, but clearly we are not going to support a VOX position that it does only curse the 2030 Agenda without making a single proposal to address the reality of citizens. Our parliamentary group has never been characterized by this. It has been characterized as propository, although on many occasions the Government does only deny our proposals. Our parliamentary group is characterized because we are few but very hard-working, but what happens is that on many occasions the government is not interested in the proposals of those who work by staying, with objectivity and professionalism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u133	Mrs. Giménez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u134	We will continue along this path and continue to defend the equality of all people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u136	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I am not going to spend all the time I have, because I do not know if the debate that is now taking place is really worth it, but there are some issues that I would like to point out. With regard to the Ministry of Social Rights - we could even go back to the background of Mr. Pablo Iglesias' vice-presidency - there is no doubt that there are many things to criticize, and I will find myself in this club: bills that never ended, initiatives that do not exist or many issues that ended up generating more controversy. They will remember that sign that did not leave in a good role judges who criticized domestic violence or that other advertising campaign that the beach is everyone's. Without a doubt, the Ministry of Social Rights does not take the best note of all the ministries, but trying to take all these questions, link them to the 2030 Agenda and end up making a collection with all the classics of the weekly VOX argumentary turns out to be - frankly - very disproportionate. We will be found in the 2030 Agenda. Agenda 2030 yes, and so much. And in the 2030 Agenda there are many things that you are totally detached from. When you say in paragraph three of the motion that Spain's national sovereignty must be affirmed for the Spaniards to decide their policies, you would also have to put a small mirror in this rostrum and realize that you occupy 52 of the 350 seats in this Chamber. Surely, you must believe better than I that sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, that the General Courts are the reflection of popular sovereignty and that this Congress of Deputies represents as no one the Spaniards. For in this Congress of Deputies there are 52 people who think like you and 298 who think just the opposite, who are for the 2030 Agenda. It is in this scenario that we find ourselves, in recognizing the 2030 Agenda as an opportunity for progress and an opportunity to have a better world. So, as I was telling you, there are two options. One is to use the motions resulting from an inquiry to advance government policies, to create documents, clauses and arguments that force the government to move and develop policies in one direction or another with these motions. The other is what you do with the quota of motions that you have: to use them to generate some videos, to leave sentences about the government being subjected, to the twenty-two ministries and spending, and so to reach the most 'genial' bomb that can be found - it's ironic; I make it clear in case you don't get it - that the 2030 Agenda alone is dedicated to spreading abortion. To come to this conclusion, no doubt, is meritorious on your part and is also sufficient reason to see that the content of the motion is in no way acceptable. You cannot make such speeches by taking advantage of your turn in the Congress of Deputies for something in which you are in a minority. [[Rumors]] The 2030 Agenda is an international commitment, the 2030 Agenda is a commitment of many States and, fortunately, the 2030 Agenda is a commitment of the majority of Congressional Members. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent in the Chamber and, if you want to have talks, to leave the Chamber. Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u138	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing VOX's motion on measures taken by the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 to implement the agenda in our country. I would like to begin by explaining what the 2030 Agenda is, as the spokesman for the proposing group has not mentioned a single word in this regard. In 2015, ladies and gentlemen, all States members of the United Nations adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The 2030 Agenda is basically the road map for enforcing human rights. The problem with VOX with the 2030 Agenda is that they do not believe in human rights, which include both social and environmental rights. [[Rumors]] To fulfil human rights, this Government has been precisely one of the most committed at the international level, and this has been demonstrated by a number of express recognitions by the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you here of some of the commitments made by the Secretariat of State in line with the 2030 Agenda. First of all, I would like to mention the social shields for the pandemic and the war in Ukraine, highlighting the minimum vital income or the control of inflation in rents; the advances in feminism, the law of yes only, the trans law and the law of reproductive health; the impulse to environmental, territorial and productive protection with the law of climate change, the law of waste and the law of the food chain - to all these laws, VOX voted against -; a new tax on the great fortunes that will cause the rich to tie their shoulders and that will prevent the creation of tax havens; an increase in the taxation of the IRPF for capital income; the rise of the minimum wage; a family law that will include the expansion of the child's income to 100 euros per month per dependent child. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u139	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u140	In addition, we have finally succeeded in making single-maritime families with two children count as large families, and we have established various care permits. We thus extend our commitment to the people who need it most. The contributory pensions will rise and be updated in accordance with the CPI and so will the non-contributory pensions and the minimum living income. We increase the budget for the fight against machist violence, doubling the investment of the State Pact against Gender Violence and, in addition, we continue to make progress in anti-racist policies and the fight against anti-Gypsyism. Moreover, we reversed Mr Rajoy's cut on the unemployment benefit and managed to make it equivalent to 60% of the regulatory base, in addition to raising the IPREM and the minimum living income. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 has done to implement human rights in a concrete and effective way in our country. However, although we have made progress in all this in favour of those who need the welfare state most, we need to continue to take steps, as there are still outstanding challenges that we hope to respond with the greatest urgency, and I want to make an express mention of housing as a right and not as an asset in the speculative market. Yesterday, on World Habitat Day, several organizations such as the Mortgage-Affected Platform, Amnesty International or No One Homeless are focusing on the Great Madrid Road with an action to demand the adoption of the housing law and the incorporation of three main petitions: the first, the prohibition of evictions without housing alternatives; the second, the regulation of rents; and, the third, the inclusion in the public housing park of all properties in the hands of the Sareb. Human rights organizations demand the adoption of a housing law now. In Congress we owe our citizens and in the Confederal Group we owe our people. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to end by recommending a film that will be released this Friday in all the rooms, On the margins, played by Luis Tosar and Penélope Cruz. On Friday we went to the movies, and today we will vote against VOX's motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Cortés. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Alonso Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u142	Thank you, President. In the People's Parliamentary Group we advocate an economic, energy and social policy that serves the interests of Spain and, to that end, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it is not necessary to isolate ourselves from Europe or the world. We will not abandon our main international commitments or be negators, as they usually propose in these types of motions. The People's Party signed the Paris Agreement and the SDGs, ratified by over 190 countries, and our group in Europe launched the European Green Pact. These three agreements are an exponent of sustainable development, cooperation and the preservation of the environment. Renouncing them is foolishness. In Spain we find a radical government, which maliciously tries to appropriate these agreements to make them a tool for confrontation and party interest, and that is what we must not tolerate. [[Applauds]] Last Wednesday we were able to see it when the Secretary-General of the United Nations Podemos, who in her spare time is Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, devoted most of her speech to insulting the main opposition party, our president and our voters. Among the many ex-abrupts spoken by the minister from this rostrum, one of them was to qualify my group as a clandestine organization of criminals. He spoke of such an organization of honest and hardworking people, many of whom have lost their lives to defend freedom; an organization that has brought Spain out of two serious crises in which the left put us and that will do it again; an organization that has been key to the consolidation of Spanish democracy and our institutions. [[Applauds]] It is clear that Mrs Belarra's words were unacceptable. I therefore believe that the minister should apologize or otherwise resign from office immediately. [[A Member: Resignation!-Applause]] I understand that Mrs Belarra is not interested in evaluating her work. That's why you'd rather waste your time insulting. The same applies to Mrs Alegría, Mr Iceta, Sánchez and Minister Montero, since any serious analysis of the management of this government will come to the same conclusion: we are facing an absolute disaster. If we talk about the objectives of combating poverty or hunger - because I do want to talk about this - we will see that the AROPE rate of risk of poverty or social exclusion, has increased 8 tenths in the last year, to 27.8% of the population living in Spain, which translates into almost 400,000 more Spaniards in this difficult situation. Caritas is serving 20% more people than before the pandemic; in 2021 it has already served 1 300 000 people. While maintaining an unorthodox fiscal pressure on the income of families, in Spain we have moved from having the cheapest shopping basket of the big countries of the European Union to having one of the most expensive, and it is that since you came to the government every month it is a cost of January for Spanish families. If we assess the target of reducing inequalities, I have to tell you that the gap between the population with more and less income has increased by 25%, a figure higher than the increase recorded during the 2008 crisis. And what about their failed social shield, with a minimum living income that reaches only 13% of the population below the poverty line. Three out of four applications are refused, while the queues of hunger continue to grow. With regard to the objective of affordable and non-polluting energy, the data speak for themselves. Since February 2021 electricity has risen by 121 %; fuels by 110 %; butane gas by 46,8 %. All this added to the fact that we have been made to rely on 8% of Russian gas. When you joined the government, we didn't buy a cubic meter of gas from Russia, and this doesn't tell me it's financing for peace. It is essential to relieve families by adjusting the IRPF to inflation, by lowering the VAT on commodities that are still at 10%, as President Feijóo has asked them, because, if they are honest, they acknowledge that they are only right when they copy the measures we propose to them. This government lacks street, that street that they do not want to step on because to step on it implies that the Spaniards tell them the truth about their policies, because, ladies and gentlemen of the left, their priorities are not the same as those of the majority of the Spaniards. You understand that citizens are at the service of this government and its fiscal voraciousness, and nothing further from reality. The Spaniards demand a government with which to arrive at the end of the month is not a heroic feat. They don't need a film president, they want a government at the service of the citizens, and a large majority knows that that can't be offered by Pedro Sánchez. That is why they will soon be betting on a moderate change in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u143	Mr. Alonso, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u144	I'm on my way, President. That is the change represented by Alberto Núñez Feijóo and the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u145	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Villagrasa Quero has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u146	Thank you, President. 'And yet it moves.' These are the famous words made by Galileo Galilei after his condemnation of the movement of the planets. The dogma of the time did not allow him to defend the scientific certainty that it is the Earth that revolves around the Sun and not the other way around. Today these General Courts are returning voices that remind us of these medieval courts of the Inquisition, and they do so under the attack on an international, political, technical and methodological consensus that has come to be called the 2030 Agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I have some bad news for the extreme right. I will tell you that this consensus of peoples dates back to decades, as long as fascist regimes have been defeated, since the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1944. [[Applauds]] After decades of debate, efforts and struggle to promote peace and the economic and social development of nations, humanity has agreed that if human activity is not sustainable there will be no future. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda are not occurrences of this government, not even of the Davos Forum, nor are they part of an intergalactic conspiracy of the world elites associated with Bill Gates. They arise from the work of civil society, which for many years has been organized around a Spain and a better, equal and sustainable world. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I have come to tell you something obvious: the agenda is neither ideological nor globalist. I come to tell you that the agenda is global and, as it is clearly not a nationalist or nationalist agenda, it reflects in its spirit the need for international cooperation, solidarity among peoples and internationalism. I come to tell you that the 2030 Agenda is the agenda of decent people, solidarity, social justice and equality, in Spain and in the world. [[Applauds]] It is far from you because you are worthy heirs and nostalgic to the world order of the privileged. Mrs Nevado, don't tell people that this agenda is fighting Spain. Tell him the truth, tell him what he fights is his doctrine, his desire for autarchy and ultranationalism. Tell them that, when you speak of a homeland, you refer to a very small homeland, to its current accounts, to that gaze of the country and of the narrow State, as narrow as in the days of Galileo Galilei. Tell the Spaniards that they are opposed to strengthening our institutions and making our democracies bigger. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u147	Excuse me, Mrs. Villagrasa, wait a moment, please. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u148	Thank you. Tell them that they oppose the conservation of our heritage, the natural environment, that they deny desertification, deforestation and forest fires this summer. Tell farmers that droughts are cyclical and that they are opposed to the survival of their livelihood, to control the sale at loss or to mark the rules of the market that avoid the extra cost of shopping here and hunger there. Tell Spanish companies that they do not want common rules to compete in an ethical market on an equal footing. Tell wage earners and wage earners that they don't want agreements on decent working conditions and that they don't care if their children are fed. Tell them, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, once and for all to the Spanish people that their agenda is not the eradication of poverty or hunger, that they do not believe in equality between men and women and not in free institutions and public freedoms. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PP, Mr. Alonso, it's time to decide. You decide on which side you want to be, whether on the government side, which, as you said, understood the need for a future programme for humanity and signed the commitment to the United Nations, or on the side of the Vice-President of Castile and León; whether on the side of the European People's Party, which is working on the development of this agenda on a continental level, or on the side of Bolsonaro, Le Pen, Putin, Trump and the Orbanes, who take refuge in climate negationism to perpetuate their privileges. Decide which side they want to be on and show it in the general budgets of the State. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you do not like the 2030 Agenda, you prefer the 1958 Agenda. You would be more comfortable with the Law of Fundamental Principles of the National Movement. [[Applauds]] However, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, keep on knowing that much sooner than later the great alarms have already opened. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Villagrasa. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. It takes into consideration proposals for the law of autonomous communities and cities. Proposed law of the Assembly of the Community of Madrid for the amendment of Law 38/2003 of 27 November, General of Grants; Law 9/2017 of 8 November, Public Sector Contracts; and Organic Law 1/2002 of 22 March, Regulator of the Law of Association, to combat anti-Semitism. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 283 against, 33 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u151	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u152	It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposition of the law of the Parliamentary Group Citizens, radio, television and public service news of state ownership. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 67 against, 173 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-04-CD221004.u153	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Thank you all very much. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and forty minutes of the night. Error correction.- In the Journal of Sessions No. 213, for plenary session No. 205, held on Thursday, 29 September 2022, on page 1, at the first point of the index, for the draft law on explosives precursors, where it states: [[File number 21/000094]] [[File number 121/000094]]
