ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group In Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u2	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, two days ago he said in an interview that we must all make a fair and balanced distribution of the consequences of the war and make an effort of unity in the interests of the general interest. In the People's Party we cannot agree more, especially if we think of the most vulnerable citizens, but it will agree with me that this also affects you. That is why I ask you: how will you set an example in the face of the sacrifice that you ask the Spaniards for? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I have said this over the last few days precisely at the Conference of Presidents on the island of La Palma. There are two key dates. First of all, the Council of 24 and 25 March to try to propose an in-depth reform of the energy market and, therefore, to protect the most vulnerable consumers, our industry, our citizens and our small and medium-sized enterprises from this energy blackmail that Putin is trying to inflict on Europe. Secondly, on 29 March, when I hope that with your ladies and gentlemen, and not only with your parliamentary group, but with all the parliamentary groups, we can agree on a national plan to respond to the economic consequences of the war. I believe that this is what the whole of Spanish citizenship deserves and needs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u6	Mr Sánchez, with a galloping inflation and a future full of uncertainties, supermarkets and gas stations have become a luxury that millions of Spaniards can no longer afford in half a month. To ask citizens to resign, the first thing one should do is set an example. Sacrifices cannot be demanded from the most expensive and numerous government watchdog in history. He cannot continue to hold three vice-presidencies and twenty - two ministries. [[Rumors]] Only your high offices and advisors cost 108 million euros more a year since you arrived in Moncloa, and that today is asking the Spaniards for something they cannot assume; therefore, it is an immorality. [[Rumors]] Before claiming deprivation from anyone, the belt should be adjusted and all the electoral, populist and unproductive spending surrounding this Government should be eliminated. Mr Sánchez, according to the Institute for Economic Studies, you have 60 billion euros in margin to reduce efficient spending without affecting the quality of public services, because it is not only about spending less, but about better managing the resources that are of all. What we're asking you to do is immediately lower taxes. This was for yesterday, Mr Sánchez, tomorrow will be very late for millions of Spaniards. The People's Party is proposing that VAT should be reduced from 21 % to 4 % in petrol and diesel and that the excise duty on hydrocarbons should also be temporarily reduced. Options have, look what is happening around us in other European countries such as France, Portugal, Poland or Ireland. Mr Sánchez, what is the point of waiting for the Spanish until 29 March? Collecting more, this is the only justification. Therefore, we ask you to lower taxes already, abandon the policy of waste and make the decision to eliminate ministries today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, when I hear you, I don't know very well who I'm answering to, yes to the old PP or the new PP. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] You reason with the same arguments, oppose and use the same arguments as the previous PP. Anyway, I listen to her and she even reminds me a lot of the former spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, the former PP. Your Honor, the Socialist Party and the Government of Spain are, of course, defending a joint response to this crisis that has provoked Putin. Your Honor, we at the Conference of Presidents of the island of La Palma proposed four agreements to which we arrived precisely with the rest of the presidents and autonomous presidents. Firstly, to withdraw European funds from the partisan debate, because they now become a fundamental element of economic policy if we are to gain energy autonomy. Secondly, try to coordinate the entire solidarity response of the public institutions, also logically of the Government of Spain, in relation to the reception and reception of Ukrainian refugees. Thirdly, of course, we must try to achieve a great deal of country agreement on the economic response to the consequences of the war and, in addition, on the response that we have to give to Brussels in order to make that in-depth reform that the Spanish Government has been calling on the European Union with regard to the energy market. I believe that Europe is united and that unity transcends the acronyms and ideological orientations. Spanish society is now supporting the response we are giving from the European Union to Putin's so unjust, unjustified and illegal aggression. I ask you to make a genuine exercise of European patriotism among all of us, and that means to live up to what European societies are asking of us, which is to be united in the response to Putin, in solidarity with Ukraine, and in the response and defence... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW MISSERIA AND RUINE ARE YOU GOING TO BRING SPAIN BEFORE YOU DIMITATE? [[File number 180/000838]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u10	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u11	Mr Sánchez, unlike out there, in this Parliament we are three hundred and fifty privileged. Get out on the street, don't travel around the world that much. Get on the street if you can, talk to the self-employed, stop at a road bar, walk through a market, visit an industrial site. There are millions of Spaniards out there who are suffering, who can't pay the bill for the light, who can't turn on the heating, who can't fill the deposit, who can't even pay the quota of self-employed people; all this long before the criminal and illegitimate war of Mr Putin, and in Spain in a more serious way than in the countries of our environment, much more serious. Stop being the indispensable where no one misses him. We already know that you have managed to take a photo with your Canadian photocopy, that Mr. Macron is very fond of you, that Mr. Biden grants you thirty seconds looking at the clock, but what have you and what are you doing for the Spanish who are suffering? Absolutely nothing: crumbs and lies. When we talked to you about energy sovereignty in the motion of censure we presented against you, they laughed at us. They have also laughed at producers, farmers and farmers who have been talking about unfair competition for a long time. They have criminalized diesel, criminalized nuclear energy, criminalized fracking, devoted themselves to the blasting of thermal power plants and imposed the green fundamentalism that is leading to the ruin of the middle classes and the most disadvantaged people in Spain. You are responsible for Spain's and Europe's food, industrial and energy dependence, but in Europe you have reacted and you remain immobile. Do something, change course radically as they have done elsewhere. Temporaryly remove or urgently and radically reduce taxes on essential goods rather than cash; do so also with gas, with gasoline; do so with light. Do everything the Spaniards are waiting for you to do. Close Mrs. Montero's insulting ministry. Use that 20 billion euros that Mrs Montero wants to use in the sex war to help the most needy families or to guarantee energy sovereignty. Mr. Sánchez, cut in political spending, cut to parties, unions or employers. Do it now or leave, because your government, Mr Sánchez, is a factory of misery, just like your ideology. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u12	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, Europe is united in its response to Putin's aggression, in its solidarity with the Ukrainian people and also in the joint response that we need to give in order to be able to defend ourselves economically and socially from this serious crisis that has caused only one person, who is Vladimir Putin. I wonder what Vladimir Putin in Europe would like. You'd like just something you're doing or at least trying to do. He would like Europe not to be united, but to be divided. He would like to see the disheartening between European society and also between Spanish society. He would like to see demonstrations like those that you have sponsored, not against invasion and war, but against the Governments that are against that invasion and war. [[Applauds]] That's what you're doing. Your Honor, I propose to the Spanish society that we do an exercise: what would Europe be if in Italy it ruled Salvini, if in France it ruled Le Pen and if in Spain you had some kind of governmental responsibility? It would be the death of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, the death of Europe. [[Applauds]] Because you represent everything that is opposite to today's Europe. You represent intolerance, the lack of arguments, the total absence of dialogue, ladies and gentlemen. So, what has Vladimir Putin done over the past few years? Support those with whom you met earlier this year: Le Pen, Salvini... [[Applauds]] Of course I do, ladies and gentlemen, if it's you, it's you, Your Honor. Vladimir Putin would want authoritarian governments in Europe. But I'm going to tell you one thing clearly and I'm not going to use the two and a half minutes you've used to ask your question: that's not going to happen. Neither Spain nor Europe will allow you or your political movements to rule in Spain or Europe. Europe will prevail. Salvini, Le Pen, you and Putin won't get away with it. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and United Socialist parliamentary groups, we can-in common, we can-Galicia in common, and the members of the government, stood up.- Mr Abascal Conde: Tramposo! You haven't talked about light and gas.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u14	Quiet, please. [[Pause. - Rumors.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA MARIA ORAMAS GONZALEZ-MORO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN PRESENT, TO THE HUGE CRISIS OF THE COUNTRY WITH THE INCREASE OF INFLATION, ENERGY COSTS AND TRANSPORT, A PLAN OF SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES TO COMPENSATE THEIR EFFECTS IN AN OUTRAPERIFIC AND VULNERABLE TERRITORY AS CANARY? [[File number 180/000826]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u15	Question by Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro from the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, there are factors that increase the risk of death in a patient suffering from an infection, such as having a previous pathology. Are you aware that the Canary Islands are now at extreme risk of death? If there is no tourism, Your Honor, the Canary Islands dies; if the prices of maritime and air transport rise, the Canary Islands dies; if inflation continues to rise, the Canary Islands dies, because we import everything from outside, because we have the lowest wages in Spain and the most expensive shopping basket in the whole country. Europe is facing a new year of calamity. Energy costs are tearing the industry apart. The rise in fuel is killing consumers. Inflation is impoverishing the most vulnerable households. That terrible reality here is an apocalypse on islands almost 2,000 kilometres away. You are talking about digital transition and modernization projects and people are going to starve us. Tourism is the wealth of the Canary Islands. Do you know how much we lost last year? We've lost 10 billion. We have 300,000 people in social exclusion and poverty. These are terrible figures, Your Honor. It is unthinkable that my land can survive another year of deep crisis. We will not be able to survive if European tourism disappears again because of the effects of the energy crisis, stagnation and war. Canary Islands no longer has the strength to endure. Mr President, in the Canary Islands, a new volcano of poverty will emerge this year, which, instead of expelling lava, will bury thousands of workers and hundreds of small businesses and will destroy the lives of many families that are already exhausted. Are you aware that the Canary Islands is vulnerable and helpless in the face of a new economic recession? That is why I ask you, Mr Sánchez: has the Government of Spain foreseen, in the face of the enormous crisis facing our country with the increase in inflation, energy and transport costs, a specific and different action plan to compensate for its effects on a remote, outermost, island and vulnerable territory such as the Canary Islands? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u17	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, I share with you the bleakness and anguish that can be suffered by both the Canary people and the people of our country as a whole with regard to two overlapping crises: the pandemic crisis and now, indeed, a war that has not been sought by anyone. Of course, it has not been sought by Ukraine, nor by the European Union, nor by NATO, nor by the international community; I would dare say that even the Russian people do not want it. She is only wanted by a person, who is Vladimir Putin, Putin's regime. In any case, landing on the Canary Islands, Your Honor, I would like to say that the commitment of the Government of Spain to the Canary Islands and to the whole country in defending, protecting and also sharing the burdens of this war equally among the entire population is total and absolute. I will give you some information about the pandemic, because it seems important to me to remember what the Spanish Government's commitment to Canarian society is. We have transferred approximately 2400 million euros, more than 251,000 canaries and canaries are with the ERTE, almost 8500 autonomous have received the extraordinary benefits and there have been 1175 companies that obtained the endorsements of the ICO. This weekend we have been on the island of La Palma, where I believe we have shown a total and absolute commitment on the part of all the administrations, regardless of who ruled. It is 500 million euros that the Government of Spain will dedicate to the reconstruction and relaunch of the island of La Palma after the volcano. Right now the execution is around 66%, at an absolutely record time in which we have speeded up all the administrative obstacles so that the aid could reach the affected neighbours and neighbours of La Palma as soon as possible. In addition, we will adopt on 29 March that national plan to respond to the economic consequences of the war. I encourage you to put these proposals in the dialogue that we are going to have with the various parliamentary groups and that we are starting today. However, I believe that we must look towards the medium term and I believe that the Canary Islands have a great opportunity to strengthen their energy autonomy by relying precisely on renewable energies. In this regard, I would like to say that at national level I would like to highlight the deployment of more than EUR 480 million for the energy transformation of the Canary Islands within the framework of European funds and that the Sustainable Energy Strategy of the Canary Islands will address more than four hundred projects and more than one hundred energy communities. In short, what I want to say is that we have a huge opportunity to increase the energy autonomy of the Canary Islands. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u19	Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u20	We will make those contributions, Mr President, and we hope that they will be collected, because in the Canary Islands there is no VAT, in the Canary Islands the hydrocarbon tax is not there and we need aid for transport and we need aid for the industrial agricultural sector. Thank you so much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA ELVIRA RODRIGUEZ HERRER, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT PAPER IS THE GOVERNMENT DELEGATED COMMISSION JUDGMENT FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS IN THIS FUTURE CRISIS THAT IS SUFFERING SPAIN? [[File number 180/000833]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u21	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs María Elvira Rodríguez Herrer of the People's Parliamentary Group In Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u22	Madam Vice-President, at the last monitoring session the President of the Government told us that they knew that Putin had been preparing the war for over a year and that for a year now they had been taking steps to cushion its impact on raw materials and energy. Times are filled with questions, but one of the main ones is that which derives from trust, and that must be brought by you. The government has a huge responsibility for what is happening to us - it is not going well - and what can happen to us, and that is not solved by saying that the fault is another - Putin - or by offering an open and dynamic plan - again words of the president - that it is not known what it consists of and that it shares its responsibility. So I'm wondering, how does your vice president work? What role is the CDGAE playing? How did she not prepare? Does she have it in order? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u23	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u24	Thank you very much, President. For almost four years now, the Government's Delegate Commission for Economic Affairs has been the body coordinating the Government's economic policy, an economic policy that has been very focused on fiscal responsibility, social justice and structural reforms with a view to the future. That economic policy orientation has guided our response to unprecedented situations and shocks in our country: first the pandemic and now the aggression against Ukraine. And we will continue along the same lines, Your Honor, with a responsible, balanced and effective economic policy that meets people's priorities. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u25	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u26	I ask you, Vice President, why have they prepared public finances for what was coming to us? No, no, Have they restructured the receipt of light and gas? No, no, Have they acted to control the final cost of gasoline and diesel? No, no, [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No!]] Have they foreseen where cuts in the supply of raw materials and components could be produced and have worked with the industries concerned? No, no, [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No!]] Have you worked with and for the agri-food sector in general and with the farmer in particular? No, no, [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No!]] And, finally, have they advanced the execution of European funds in those areas that could alleviate the cost of war? No, no, [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No!]] And in the meantime, we have seen cross-reviews that have shown us the confusion they have in such important matters as labour reform, the future of our taxes, the role of agriculture and livestock and the cost of gas oil and travelling on our roads, let alone our position in the war itself. We are all suffering for what is happening in Ukraine, but the Spaniards are also going to suffer for what is going on here and you are responsible because you carry the helm of the country. Since her responsibility as President of the CDGAE and Vice-President for Economic Affairs, do an act of humility and tell this House the truth of how things are and why. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u27	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u28	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, you are well aware that for more than two months, for almost a year now, we have been taking decisive and clear action, both at national and European level, to try to respond to the rise in energy prices. That explains why we have lowered VAT and excise duties on electricity, put a stop to rising gas prices, increased the entire safety net for the most vulnerable or supported the electro-intensive industry. These measures have a significant fiscal impact of at least EUR 10 000 or EUR 12 billion and are necessary precisely to cushion the negative impact of that war that we now know has been preparing for a long time. And we didn't stay there. We are also pushing for clear measures to decouple gas prices from international markets and electricity prices within our countries, because it cannot be that European citizens and businesses are paying for the war in Putin. That is what we are defending in international forums under the leadership of the President of the Government. The next 24th and 25th of this month there will be an important European Council in which we hope that the measures that Spain is defending will be pushed forward. Then we will adopt, as it cannot be otherwise and the president has announced, a response plan for which we count on their contributions, just as we are working with the social actors and the autonomous communities. Dialogue, responsibility, decisive and effective action are the hallmarks of our Government, they continue to be so to confront these unprecedented shocks and crises and will guide us in the future, with determination to support the productive fabric, the incomes of families and, above all, the most vulnerable groups. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ALICIA GARCIA RODRIGUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO IMPLAINT MEASURES TO MIX THE INCREASE OF THE CAST OF THE BUYER, ON THE WAY TO BE FOLLOWED BETWEEN YOUR COUNTRY OF MINISTERS' COUNCIL? [[File number 180/000836]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u29	Question by Mrs Garcia Rodríguez of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u30	Good morning, Madam Vice President. I came today to ask Minister Belarus about the measures they are going to take about the shopping basket and their internal fights, and I happen to meet a vice president who is parapet of Podemos. The other day we saw how the Minister spokeswoman was silent to the Minister of Equality, today you are silent to Minister Belarus and I ask you where is the sorority of the most feminist government in Spanish history, because really the one who fucks the cradle is Mr Sánchez. The Spaniards are not for divisions or for chryspation, the Spaniards are suffering the greatest economic and social crisis in history. The Spanish are suffering - with pre-crisis data - a 72% increase in electricity, 33% in butane gas, 25% in fuel and 7.6% in inflation, triggered and also directly attacking the lowest and weakest incomes. Inflation is clear, the shopping basket in Spain is more expensive than in the rest of the euro area, 30% more expensive, and the Spaniards are worried. The factories, the farmers, the farmers, the transporters, the families, the pensioners, the self-employed, the SMEs, are all worried and all await your answers, Minister. How are you going to deal with this situation? Are you guys gonna stop fighting? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u32	Thank you very much. Man, I'm not surprised, coming from your party, that you're talking to me about internal fights, but I'm going to focus on what really matters. [[laughter and applause]] What really matters is the answer we are giving to the rise in energy prices. The aggression on Ukraine is clearly leading to a very large increase in international energy prices and we have already taken decisive measures for several months, as I have said before: measures to put a stop to the rise in gas prices, to support the electro-intensive industry and to cushion the negative impact on household incomes. These measures are having an impact - of course they are having an impact! - on the well-being of Spanish citizens: 1 200 000 vulnerable people have benefited from the discount of the electric social bonus; we have reduced energy taxes by 60%; we have reduced electricity taxes and eliminated some of them entirely temporarily; 600 consumers in the electro-intensive industry have benefited from the reduction of charges and now also by 80% of the reduction in tolls; and we have also put a stop to the increases in gas prices. That is, this is a government committed to people's well-being and is trying to react as effectively as possible to absolutely unprecedented crises and shocks. We are now working on a response plan to cushion the economic impact, to provide stability and confidence to all citizens, to protect the most vulnerable and to achieve a fair and equitable sharing of the impact of this absolutely unjustifiable attack on our values and rights; a plan that I believe we should all be defending together, you and I. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u33	Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u34	Madam Vice-President, you said yesterday that Spain is one of the countries of the European Union least exposed to the economic impact of the war. Fear gives me, because two years ago you said that COVID was going to have an unsignificant and transitory impact and the economy fell by 11% that we have not yet recovered. You said a few days ago that inflation was short-term and today you say it's Putin's fault. You use war to cover up your incompetence. You use the war to cover up Minister Belarus, who announces social shields at the Citizens' Council instead of taking them to the Council of Ministers. Minister Belarus calls you war party and is against you sending weapons to Ukraine. The minister wants to raise taxes to the Spanish 30 billion euros and competes with Sánchez to see who raises them more. I tell you to lower taxes, as requested by the People's Party, to light, gas and fuel. The Spanish will thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u36	Thank you. That Spain is one of the least exposed countries to this crisis is an obvious issue from the point of view of economic exposure, energy independence and even our geographical position. However, we are leading the European response, because that is the action that a responsible government must take. I also draw attention to the lack of ideas from the People's Party. I really hope that for the preparation of that response plan you have some additional idea of lowering taxes, because you, for any problem of our economy or of our country in general, the only thing you say is: dismantle the welfare state, lower taxes, cut health, cut education. [[applause]] Recently, moreover, they propose that we cut the maternity benefit, the paternity benefit, the school from 0 to 3 years and all the parts of our general state budgets that are aimed precisely at boosting women's participation in the labour market. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW DOES THAT 'MODATED ECONOMIC POLICY' THAT FOLLOWS YOU DEVELOPMENT THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/000839]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u38	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, olive oil in Spain today has risen by 30%; flour by 20%; baby food by 11%; fruit, milk, rice by 10%; eggs, bread, vegetables, fruit, beef by 7%. In Pedro Sánchez's Spain, subsidies are raised, not to the Spaniards who may need them, but to the Federation of Progressive Women, to the Association of Free and Combative Women, to the Association Arcoiris. In real Spain, petrol is 2 euros per litre. In Spain, Pedro Sánchez's 40 % increase is due to the fact that his advisers are already 1200, with a cost for the period of 65 million euros. In real Spain, energy, the cost of light, is 450 euros megawatt/hour, 800% more than just a year ago. In Spain, Pedro Sánchez draws money from the savings of the Spanish to give them to the trade unions, 17 million euros, more than twice as much as before the pandemic, because at the home of the communist minister they taught him that the unions must be fattened so that they do not protest on the street, and so they make a box of resistance to be able to burn the streets when we govern, just as the communist minister recently threatened us, with its typically totalitarian and undemocratic style. In real Spain, there is an unemployment rate of 13.3%; 30% for young people, excluding ERTE. In Spain of Pedro Sánchez there are 21 billion euros for cross-cutting feminist policies and a new fiscal rise to the middle and working class of which the Minister of Finance always denies. Minister, you've got me confused, really. What are those moderate economic policies that, in your opinion, the Government is developing? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u40	Madam First Vice-President of the Government,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u41	Thank you, President. For almost four years now we have been implementing an economic policy - which you know well, Your Honor, because I explain it here almost every week - based on fiscal responsibility, social justice, progressive structural measures and reforms looking to the future. Fiscal responsibility explains that we have already begun to reduce the debt and government deficit ratios on GDP last year, starting with a path that will allow us to recover the pre-pandemic situation as soon as possible; in fact, the decline in debt on GDP has reached 1.3 percentage points and we are still waiting for data, but the closure of the year 2021 will probably be in a GDP deficit below the government's forecast. We have also taken measures to support the most vulnerable groups: minimum living income, the rise of the inter-professional minimum wage, labour reform, the entire social shield of response to the pandemic. We have undertaken a set of structural reforms aligned with the international recommendations that form the recovery plan. Your Honor, this is a responsible, effective economic policy that responds decisively to the various challenges we have been facing. What I don't understand is who you stand for, because if you hate feminist organizations, trade unions, associations that defend LGBTI collectives and, ultimately, rights for all Spanish citizens, who do you stand for, Your Honor? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u42	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u43	Madam Vice-President, although it is hard for you and your parliamentary group to believe this because they live in a bubble, there is life beyond the chiringuitos you mention, the chiringuitos of feminists, the LGTB chiringuitos and the subsidized chiringuitos like the unions, which are the largest chiringuito in Spain. But that's not what I'm saying, they're going to say it more and more Spanish. This Saturday thousands of people go out to the street against rising prices. On Sunday thousands of Spaniards go out again for their attacks on the primary sector, on our countryside, on our livestock, on our farmers, on Pedro Sánchez's attacks on the lifestyle of so many Spaniards. And the Spaniards take the street, not because they are mobilized by their subsidized unions, no, but because they are tolerant and patient and understanding, but they are not idiots, and when they themselves wonder where they were four years ago and where they are today and if they are better today than four years ago, it is very clear that they are much worse. And no, it's neither Franco nor the virus nor Putin, it's Pedro Sánchez! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u44	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u45	Your Honor, our Government has a very clear commitment to the countryside, as much as you constantly strive to confront some Spaniards against others. We have been developing a set of policies that have improved the CAP, that have improved the conditions of workers in the field, that are strongly supporting these sectors in an absolutely unprecedented context, caused, of course, by an international crisis. Just as this Government is committed to the most vulnerable groups, we have launched a whole safety net that did not exist in our country and we have responded to the pandemic very differently from the responses given in the previous economic crises. Your Honor, I believe that the real Spain that is out there is the Spain of women, it is the Spain of families, it is the Spain that rises, yes, it works hard to leave a better country for its children and for its grandchildren. And that Spain, Your Honor, knows very well that the Government is working for them, that it is going to face with determination any challenge we face, that it supports dialogue and, above all, that it wants harmony and coexistence among all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN CAPDEVILA I STEVE, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THINK TO FIND LEGISLATIVE CHANGES TO ESTABLISH OBLIGATIONS TO BANKING ENTITIES? [[File number 180/000829]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u46	Question by Mr Joan Capdevila i Esteve, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u47	Good morning, President. I take my question into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u48	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u49	Thank you, President. I am very pleased, Mr Capdevila, that you share the priority that we give in the Government to promote and promote the financial inclusion of all Spanish citizens and, in particular, the most vulnerable groups. The truth is that if there is an area that we have been dealing with in these years and in which we are working intensively to respond to the challenges arising from digitisation, it is financial inclusion, and I hope to have the support of your political group when we bring legislative initiatives to this House. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u50	Mr. Capdevila.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u51	With all due respect, Madam Vice President, that is not enough. We have seen, we have read in the BOE the second and third additional provisions of Law 4/22, on the protection of consumers and users in the face of situations of social and economic vulnerability, and they have done nothing but remember what we have seen in the past of similar proceedings, appealing to codes of good practice of a voluntary nature, more similar to charity - always must exist - than to the establishment of public service obligations proper to a social and democratic state of law, such as, for example, the Social Housing Fund of the Royal Decree Law 27/2012, of infamous memory, perpetrated by the People's Party, which wanted the banks to accommodate the people who had previously executed mortgages; what would seem rather a macabre joke, if not true. And it is that, Madam Vice-President, I fear that, if you do not wake up, you are on the road to doing the same ridiculous thing with regard to financial exclusion. In the current legal system, there are models of public service obligations, such as those contained in the General Telecommunications Act or the Electricity Act, which would make it possible to resolve, without appealing to the good faith of the banks, the threefold question of: a minimum territorial map of offices of financial institutions, a minimum territorial map of cashiers guaranteeing the right to cash as a method of payment and, linking both maps, an obligation of face-to-face care in offices open to the public. Do you think to some effective extent, beyond looking pleased that the banks swear by Snoopy that they will not harm the elderly and the disadvantaged, as they are actually doing already? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u52	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u53	Thank you very much, President. Man, Mr. Capdevila, it seems to me serious enough not to trivialize or make jokes, frankly! I take this very seriously; in fact, we have been working to encourage financial institutions to sign protocols, to make commitments that have been successful in that protocol on 21 February to provide elderly people and vulnerable groups, people with disabilities, personalized care, two-fold attention; to improve telephone care; to improve all the care for the rest of the channels; to provide them with a person who will personally care for them and accompany them in this process. We have asked the Banco de España to analyse the feasibility and the opportunity of other measures, such as some of those you have pointed out. In addition, we are finalizing the Financial Client Protection Authority Bill, also the Customer Care Services Bill, in short, to have a triple level of control. Firstly, the obligations they can assume voluntarily and the protocols they can assume by the financial institutions supervised, of course, by the Banco de España; secondly, a good customer service for complaints and complaints; and thirdly, the financial client's defence authority before having to resort to the courts. That is, we are acting decisively because this is an important issue. And, in fact, I am very surprised that you minimize and trivialize the measures we have taken to promote and strengthen social housing. For I do not share it, Your Honor, and I do not share it not for reasons of charity, but for social justice, which is what really matters. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FRENCH BALDE EDMUND, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT ECONOMIC MEASURES IS YOUR GOVERNMENT TAKEN TO RELIEF THE SUBJECT OF PRICES AFTER FAMILY, ENTERPRISES, AUTOMOS AND WORKERS IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00830]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u54	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u55	One more week, Mrs. Calviño, waiting to see how you ease the pocket of the Spaniards. How much longer do we have to wait?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u56	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u57	Well, Mr Bal had put forward a question raising the question of what economic measures the government is taking to alleviate the rise in prices. And I thank you for the question, Mr Bal, because we have in fact been taking steps for many months now to cushion the negative impact of rising international energy prices, in particular gas prices, on the accounts of families and the competitiveness of Spanish companies. And I look forward to your support for all the initiatives that will come to this House in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u58	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u59	Look, they have already told you before, but there have been countries in our environment - such as Ireland, Germany, Portugal, France or Poland - that have already lowered taxes, which are already helping families and middle classes. And President Sánchez makes a series of vague and vague promises. I mean, there are countries that lower taxes, but you lower your eyes in front of the Spaniards and tell us that we have to wait until March 29. And in 15 days, how much is it gonna cost to fill the supermarket car? And what's the price of light going to be? And the gas is going to be 3 euros a litre? Of course, you don't fill the car deposit because you take them everywhere, but, look, it's been two years of sacrifice. And don't tell me that inflation is out of the question, that the price of light is Putin's fault or that it happened yesterday. What is clear is, of course, the fault of not taking action, of not offering solutions: of the Government of Spain. I offer you our measures. I offer you to adjust the IRPF rate to inflation, I tell you that you have to lower taxes on fuels, which have to extend the reduced VAT on light until the end of the year. And in the medium term we need an energy table where nuclear power is included, we need to lower taxes, but we need to contain prices as well. And above all, it rejects Podemos' tax reforms. What we need is a plan to help families, and we are sick of words and promises. We need the facts. Why don't we look like France and Portugal? Because we can not want and you try to buy time, and with patience you do not pay bills. One sensible thing the President of the Government says is that the defence budget needs to be raised, and Yolanda Díaz immediately comes out to say that it doesn't feel right. We must defend Europe from Putin and Spain from Podemos. Because you know what's going on? What does the defence of Europe and the defence of the economy agree with? That we can't give it to the populists. That is why we are presenting you today with a document with concrete measures, in the image and likeness of the countries in our environment, so that the Conservatives, the Liberals and the Social Democrats can agree on that plan of confrontation, on that plan against war. Do you really want to find consensus? You know where to look for them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u60	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u61	Thank you, President. Three elements of response, Mr Bal. First of all, we've lowered taxes. We have lowered VAT on electricity, we have lowered excise duties on electricity, we have reached an increase in the price of gas, we have reduced the operating charges of the system, we are going to reduce toll charges for electrically intensive consumers by 80%. This is a very important tax reduction, with an impact of at least EUR 10 to 12 billion on public coffers. In that regard, we are already acting decisively in the only area which, it seems, the opposition sees as a solution to all the problems of our country. Secondly, we are preparing the response plan - for which we hope to count on your support - to cushion the economic impact of the war, to generate stability and confidence in all citizens and businesses through an income pact negotiated with the social partners; to protect the most vulnerable, strengthening the entire security network that we have been deploying, and to ensure a fair and equitable sharing of the costs of the war throughout society. I believe that these objectives, of course, are shared throughout the Chamber and will therefore also have the support of your ladies and gentlemen. And, thirdly, I'll do a little more personal reflection. I can't help but be surprised. I have been at the meetings of the Eurogroup and the Ecofin for two days, dealing, by the way, with many ministers who are members of the Liberal Group, with whom I understand you perfectly and who share both the challenges we face, as well as the objectives we have and the preventions and precautions of not making decisions that may have a more negative impact in the medium and long term. We are coordinating our action with the countries of our environment, Spain is a partner appreciated and respected by our European partners and I am surprised that a party that says it defends Spain is constantly saying that we are worse than others and that we have to copy others, when frankly they look at us with respect and admiration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs CAROLINA SPAIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHAT MEASURES IS TO BE TAKEN BY THE SECOND Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO GUARANTEE THE ACQUISITIVE POWER OF WORKERS DURING THE WAR OF URANIA? [[File number 180/000834]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u62	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question from the representative of Carolina Spain Queen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u63	Thank you, President. What measures will it take to guarantee the purchasing power of workers?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u64	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u65	The Government will take all necessary measures, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u66	Mrs. Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u67	I will give you a fact: two months before the invasion the light was already up 72 %; the gas, 33 %, and the oil, 27 %. Don't blame the war. Do you know why inflation in Spain is 30% higher than in the countries of Europe? Because its disastrous economic policy had already put us on the line of Europe before the war. Another fact is that 35 % of the self-employed are at risk from the price of light and fuel. The ironworks of his people for the furnace by the light, is that they will appoint him non-grateful person in his people. Workers lose purchasing power and do not reach the end of the month. Those workers you came to defend and you've abandoned, they can't even put the heat on anymore, but now you don't talk about energy poverty. I'm sure it's easy for you to do what Borrell says. Simply lower the heating of the service area; service area! Do you sleep quietly, Minister? You, of the extreme left and communist elite, raise the salary by 2% and sleep quietly because you don't have to pay for the light or gas or anything. Since you are a minister, the Spaniards are poorer, your government is richer, you live better and the workers, worse. Communism. You, who promised to repeal the labor reform, have not only betrayed the workers, have betrayed the bases of Podemos with the war, you have betrayed your comrades Belarus and Montero. Are you in favour of sending weapons, yes or no? Because it looks like it's been sold. With regard to employment, the Spanish People's Party led job creation in Europe; we did it well and we will do it well. And don't talk to me about 2013, that you and I know perfectly well about inheritance and inertia. Now, with you, we are at the forefront of unemployment in Europe, rather than doubling the European average, with 26% social exclusion and with inequality and poverty rising. Madam Vice President, do you sleep quietly, sleep quietly? Feijoo's got a tax cut... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u69	It turns out that Poland, that France, that Portugal have already lowered them. What are you waiting for? Wake up, Minister, and do more than just travel and get promoted. Stop making a box with inflation and the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u70	Thank you very much. Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u71	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I am not going to give you a data, I am going to give you a quote, which says: Ladies and gentlemen of the left, respect the social agents, who set wages; it is not the government, neither this Congress nor the opposition. Do you know whose date that is, Your Honor? Of yourself, when I ruled Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] Indeed, Your Honor, wages are set by the social partners in our country. Look, Your Honor, the big difference is made by governments. This Government has emerged from the crisis by regaining employment. The management of the Government of the People's Party has rightly led to the greatest wage devaluation in the history of democracy, a wage devaluation that meant that wage incomes lost 4 points of participation in GDP; exactly, Your Honor, €45 billion a year less wage income in national income. This is the management of the People's Party. And, indeed, in the face of that exit from the crisis, we came out under other conditions, nothing more and nothing less than raising the interprofessional minimum wage - which you froze - by 36%. Yes, we are different, Your Honor, we are to defend people. I ask you a question, Your Honor. Look, the three big electrics in our country this year have increased their profits before taxes nothing more and nothing less than 47%; exactly today they exceed 10,022 million euros in profits before taxes. I ask you, do you agree that these great benefits serve to alleviate the loss of purchasing power of workers today? I'll tell him we're on it and they'll find us there. This is the difference between this government and you. Look, Your Honor, while Mr Feijóo - whom you mentioned - is putting a red carpet in our country to the far right, the Government of Spain is going to defend the working classes, the middle classes and, of course, our country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO PAY THE EFFECTS PRODUCED BY INCREASING THE PRICE OF LIGHT AND GAS THAT COULD PRODUC THE CLOSURE OF THE VALENTIAN INDUSTRIES OF THE SECTOR AND THE TEXTILE SECTOR? [[File number 180/000827]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u72	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Baldoví Roda, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u73	Thank you very much, President. The cluster of Castellón's ceramic industry concentrates 80% of the state ceramic industry, contributes more than 20% of the province's gross domestic product and generates more than 15 000 direct jobs, plus the indirect jobs of the enamel and chips industries. It is an innovative industry that bet for cogeneration years ago, using gas as an energy source for its furnaces, taking advantage of this heat to then produce electricity. This industry consumes 7% of all industrial gas in the state, and that is exactly where the problem lies. Gas prices have multiplied by 20% in just one year, I insist, in a single year, and electricity, because of its perverse dependence on gas. To all this it must be added that much of the clay it consumes comes from Ukraine. Therefore, the perfect storm: we add an unorthodox increase in energy costs to a real problem of lack of raw material. All of this has led to a 25 % reduction in production and five companies' ERTEs have already been submitted. The sector endured the crisis as it saw how banks were rescued and there is a real danger of closure of this Valencian industry and other electro-intensive sectors, such as textiles. There is a real problem that all this discontent ends up capitalizing on this opportunistic right, Putin's friend and the misguided, who has magical solutions for everything, when their solutions do not go beyond giving contracts to their friends, privatizing everyone's things and always voting in favor of the interests of the big electrics, who are indeed being lined up. Therefore, Minister, you asked with concern what measures you intend to take to ensure that Castellón's ceramics industry is not shut down and fired...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u75	Thank you very much, President, and thank you very much, Your Honor. We share with you the concern you express about the situation of the ceramic industry and, in general, the situation of the industry in our country. If I would like to provide some data, which I believe are significant and important, because it is true that we live in a complex context, where energy raw materials have triggered their price; in the case of natural gas, it has multiplied its price by eight times - although consumers have not felt it at the same intensity and not the industrial ones - and in the case of electricity, as a result of the effects of gas, it has also multiplied it by almost ten. In addition to energy raw materials, in the case of the ceramic industry, clay is added. I would like to remind you of a fact which is forgotten and which explains something which the first Vice-President and the President have repeatedly indicated. According to aggregate gas storage inventories in Europe, since the spring of 2012 there has been a drastic fall in the origin of Russian gas into Europe, while Russian gas prices in Europe and international markets have increased dramatically. So we know two things: the first, which is very likely to be preparing for war; the second, which explains why the price of electricity from energy raw materials has been rising long before Putin's invasion. We know, therefore, that the tax measures we have adopted: industry coverage, toll and charge coverage, flexibility with regard to gas or the price of gas for domestic consumers has been fundamental, and we know that in the national response plan we have to listen to the social partners, to parliamentary groups and to the autonomous communities. The electrointensive industry has specific problems that we are dealing with; industrial gas consumers have specific problems, and the Minister of Industry and I have been meeting with them, and the cogeneration has specific problems that so far, fortunately, has been able to sort out reasonably thanks to the fact that the remuneration that he received for the electricity that he generated was equivalent to the price of the wholesale market, and with that he could go to buy the gas that he needed. We are about to pull out the call for 1200 megawatts of cogeneration that we committed ourselves to moving forward in November, and, as I say to you, we will continue to work with a critical sector, with a lot of added value and that has been making modernization efforts for a long time, such as the ceramic industry and the fries that sit in the province of Castellón. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: DO YOU THINK THAT, WITHIN THE SITUATION PROVIDED FOR BY THE URANIAN CONFLICT, THE PEACE SHOULD BE REVISED? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000828]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u76	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, in addition to the humanitarian drama, which is undoubtedly the main one, there are growing fears that the war in Ukraine could threaten Europe's food security and thus lead to a far-reaching expansion in the world's food supply of both cereals and the necessary raw materials and animal feed. Russia's invasion of Ukraine will affect the European Union's ability to obtain enough oilseeds and protein-rich cereals to feed animals and will certainly increase production costs for farmers. Yesterday, the newspaper El País offered a report about the other war in Ukraine, that of the cereal fields. The article mentioned that up to 30% of crops cannot be grown because of the impact of the war and Ukraine, as we all know, is the fourth world exporter of maize and 40% of sunflower oil is Ukrainian. War, bans, export problems from the port of Odessa, as well as sanctions to Russia, will generate a serious crisis with fatal consequences for African countries, for example, as FAO has indicated. In addition, if spring planting is not carried out in Ukraine, rising cereal prices could induce export restrictions in the medium term. To all this we must add the rising price of fuels, which has already left some sectors sacrificed, such as the Basque fleet, which is tied up. At this juncture, last 2 March the Council of the European Union of Agriculture met in an extraordinary way to deal with the crisis caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. You have met, and in that Council some ministers put forward the idea that food for livestock should be given priority in order to ensure supplies. Does the Minister believe that in the current context the Green Pact, the reform of the CAP, which will be launched in 2023, and its outcome, the National Strategic Plan, all of which are geared towards more sustainable and less productive agriculture, respond to the needs that will arise for our adequate supply of raw materials? So, Minister, are you in favour of using all the agricultural land available to produce animal feed or to reduce funds for eco-schemes or agri-environmental aid, for example? As a global question, and with this I conclude, do you think that, following the situation caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the CAP should be revised? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u78	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. What you raise is of the greatest interest, I believe, to all the citizens, and I thank them for that. Last Friday, the extraordinary European Council in Versailles discussed precisely the food autonomy, the food sufficiency of the European Union, which is assured, as is the one in Spain, and all this thanks to the common agricultural policy, which is its backbone and which if it did not exist we would now have to create; a policy which already has more than sixty years of existence and which has been reinvented on successive occasions, the last of which is to maintain what I believe is necessary: sustainable food systems of the present and future that ensure the economic sustainability, therefore, the profitability of farmers and livestock; ensuring environmental sustainability and the fight against climate change; social sustainability, that is, the generational relief, and obviously innovation and digitalisation, which are necessary in order to increase competitiveness and meet these new challenges. We therefore have an excellent instrument and an excellent instrument at the right time. Indeed, his concern is also that of the Government and mine as Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. That is why we have raised in the European Union certain issues which you know and which are very important. The first is to make it easier to import those products, such as maize, which are necessary for animal feed. Last Monday, in the ministry, we already signed the technical standard that will allow us to supply and, I can assure you, there is no shortage of supplies; on the contrary, it is obviously ensured, in the short and medium term, the supply of the sector. Secondly, as far as beard lands are concerned - and you mentioned this - it is one of the issues that we will be discussing next Monday at the Agriculture Council in Brussels, and I am convinced that the Commission will give a positive response. The activation of Article 219 of the Common Market Organisation to give support to the most needy sectors and also to increase the progress of the CAP, all this is a committed action of the Government in Europe, to which we add the decisions adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers in relation to the agricultural sector and which are a sign of support... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY HAVE YOU DECIDED THE VICTIMES OF TERRORISM? [[File number 180/00840]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u81	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why have you deceived the victims of terrorism? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u83	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. This is the tenth time that you have asked me the same question, and I have to say to you that the Government always has and will have a firm commitment to the dignity and the example that they have given, give and will always give to the victims of terrorism. That is why we are working on the construction of their public memory, we are working in support of victims and associations, and always from two fundamental principles: dialogue and transparency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u85	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u86	I wish, Minister! However, reality says that you have deceived the victims of terrorism by negotiating with intermediaries the situation of ETA prisoners, and a report from the Civil Guard has revealed it. The bottom line is, above and above, the Ministry of the Interior insults them. First, the Secretary General of Prison Institutions, who told the victims that this discovery of treatment with the representatives of prisoners is the same treatment that the ministry has with the victims, institutional relations. And when the victims expressed their indignation, rightly so, for such an answer that you try to equate yourself with the murderers, you publicly insult them, using them to lie. Minister, there is no greater vileness, a miserable infamy, and no Minister of the Interior had ever dared to commit such indecency. But, Minister, the victims do not lie, the victims do not lie when they report that this government has betrayed them because it has made an accomplice of a story that it does not want to distinguish between victims and executioners, a dirty story and imposed by Otegi to try to whiten the criminal history of ETA. However, Minister, in spite of your lies, your insults and your disillusionment, millions of Spaniards are not going to allow it. Memory, dignity and justice is the tribute of permanent gratitude that the victims deserve for their moral greatness and for their civic example. This parliamentary group, VOX, has been and will be with the victims without reservations, under any circumstances, in the clear, yesterday, tomorrow and always, and I recommend you, Minister of the Interior, that you now take the opportunity, from your seat, to publicly apologize to the victims for insulting them publicly by using them to lie. Do it, do it, Minister of the Interior. It is imperative that you assume that responsibility, if you still retain it, that I doubt it, a minimum of decorum, dignity and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Gil. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I have told you several times: this Government has not negotiated, nor will it negotiate and will not negotiate the application of prison legislation. The rule of law defeated the terrorist organization ETA. The Government's policy on the victims of terrorism, do you know what it is essentially based on? In support of the work of the partnerships. Compare the budgets of 2021 and 2022 in terms of subsidies for the work carried out by the associations with those allocated in previous budgets, also in the construction of their public memory. When this Government came in, it was when progress was made in the construction of the Victims of Terrorism Memorial Centre in Vitoria-Gasteiz, when educational units are actually being implemented, obviously with transparency and dialogue. But tell the victims of terrorism, you who have been here in this Chamber since 1984, what did you do when the President of the Government between 1996 and 2004, while ETA was killing and killing, said this - I open quotes - 'I do not even ask you to make explicit condemnation of your own crimes, I am willing to be generous.' I close quotes. What did you do? What did you do when President Aznar himself, between 1996 and 1998 in particular, transferred 575 prisoners from the terrorist organization when he was killing? What did you do? [[Applauds]] Tell me. What did you do when Mr. Rajoy, when you still belonged to the People's Party, moved to 230? He had more than eight hundred opportunities to apologize to the victims of terrorism. Are you going to apologize today to the victims of terrorism? [[Applauds]] You can't be so cynical, you can't be so ironic. While you were consenting to all that, others, police, civilian guards and even many judges, we are judging our lives by applying the law and beating ETA from the rule of law. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DIEGO GAGO BUGARÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT MEASURES IS IT TAKEN TO AMORTIGUE THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE CRISIS? [[File number 180/000835]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u89	Questions to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr Diego Gago Bugarín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, before you tell me what are the proposals to cushion this government's crisis, I have to tell you that they have been leading all week to the lack of action and the lack of anticipation of the consequences of the crisis, and it is false, simply false. The same consequences are repeated, those of before the pandemic, those of after the pandemic, those of before the crisis, those of now after the war, the same consequences are repeated at all times, the same consequences are the result of an ideologicalized road map, biased, a lack of action and, ultimately, a lack of respect for the taxpayer, the worker and the entrepreneur. Mrs Maroto, it is Sánchez and not Putin, it is Sánchez and this government that left us more than 6.5% of inflation at the end of last year; it is Sánchez and this government that caused us to get worse out of the crisis; it is Sánchez and this government that did not act in the face of the energy crisis, and it is Sánchez and this government that continue to charge more than 250 million euros at the expense of the workers, at the expense of the carriers who are on strike on the street, at the expense of the industries that are paralysing their activity and closing, and ultimately, of all the Spaniards who cannot fill their deposits. It's Sanchez and not Putin, Mrs. Maroto. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u91	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u92	Thank you, President. Mr Gago, I hoped for greater responsibility and loyalty to the Government, but especially given that we have just held the Conference of Presidents in which there has been a great deal of agreement, the La Palma agreement, where four major tasks have been defined so that we can work in unity. You blame Mr Sánchez for the fact that we were the ones who generated the pandemic, now the war. Finally, I think it is on the other side of history, that while we are close to the problems and solving the problems of industry, the problems of citizenship and, ultimately, of the most vulnerable, I will tell you where you were these last two weeks: you were agreeing with the far right in a community, my land, in which you are going to put women's rights and freedoms at risk. [[applause]] That's what they've been doing for the last two weeks, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u93	Mr. Gago.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u94	Minister, I'll tell you where you weren't. You weren't at the meeting of the Conference of Presidents being the Minister of Industry, that's where you should have been, and you weren't, Minister. That is the problem with his ministry. [[Applauds]] That is the great problem your ministry has. I will go further into this problem because it is vox populi among the trade unions, among the employers and even among the media themselves that their ministry has a lack of political weight in this government. It is unheard of, and I am sure that no member of this House understands that, in the face of the industrial crisis in our country, the Minister of Industry will not be invited by the President of the Government to the Conference of Presidents this Sunday. It is a real shame and you have to seriously analyze why this is happening to you, because your role in this government goes completely unnoticed. Industrial policies are not dictated by you, Mrs Rivera is dictated by you, and that's how it goes. I therefore invite you, Mrs Maroto, to analyse your situation well, to open your eyes, to put your batteries on and to talk to Mr Sánchez about what is happening to you, because this is what goes to our country's industrial policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u95	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u96	Mr. Gago, I encourage you to see my schedule so that you can see, for example, where I was last week. I was in Huelva, I was visiting companies as important as Cepsa, companies as important as Atlantic Copper, for example. I also encourage you to see what the agreements of the Council of Ministers yesterday were. I'm sure you've read it in the newspapers on your land. We approved a new PERTE, Your Honor, a PART to support the naval industry. We're going to mobilise around EUR 1.5 billion. Surely you were stunned this morning by reading these newspapers and seeing how the industries support the Government of Spain. We also adopt important measures for the tourism sector, EUR 170 million, part of which will go to their land. You come here to teach us lessons, the first vice president reminded us. You were, when you ruled, the most taxed in this country: you went up VAT from 10% to 21%, you went up excise taxes and you created new figures, the sun and the production tax, figures by the way that we have dropped and we have abolished with a tax effort that exceeds EUR 10 billion, and we are going to continue working. The issue is where the PP, the new one or the old one is going to be, because Mr Feijoo, with whom we agreed, for example, the other day in Mallorca, was demanding a road map that certainly does not respond to what this country needs, and we, the third vice president and this minister, were inaugurating the first hydrogen plant to have Spain, the largest in Europe. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: FRONT THE HOUSE OF STOPS AND ENTERPRISES DERIVED FROM THE HIGH PRICE? [[File number 180/000831]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u98	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the feeling of fear, uncertainty and despair is increasing among the popular classes - I understand that that too will perceive it -, a feeling that has undoubtedly worsened with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, but that in any case it is manifested continuously when they see the prices of inflation and see how the shopping basket reaches limits that make it difficult to acquire such food, that it increases even more when they see that the long cost of the crisis never ceases, that it does so also when the rise of light threatens every month to strike their economies and that now, at this moment, it does so with the closure of businesses, with the impossibility of going to work and maintaining their job in the conditions under which they had it. That state of mind is the ideal breeding ground for authoritarian and reactionary exits and, as I am convinced that these are not the exits that governments are seeking from the left, I ask you how you plan to cope with the cascade of stops and closures of companies resulting from the price rise.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u100	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u101	Thank you very much, President. Mr Matute, as you have pointed out, we are in a context of uncertainty, of complexity arising from Putin's invasion of Ukraine, which has, as you know, been unanimously condemned by the countries of the European Union, also by our allies in NATO. We are acting unanimously, in a united manner, with decisions that seek to stop war and restore peace; a war that has strained energy markets with a price escalation that, as you can see, companies and families, especially the most vulnerable, are seeing. That is why we have been working on a response in the short term, but also in the medium and long term, a response that is already being noticed by households and businesses with a decrease and abolition of excise duties, such as electricity generation, new auctions of energy contracts, also the reduction of charges on the bill, the increase in CO2 compensation the new fund that we have launched to endorse private contracts between the electro-intensive industry and the merchants, endowed with more than 600 million euros, but in addition President Sánchez has announced that we are going to reduce by 80% the tolls for more than six hundred electro-intensive companies. But alongside these measures, as you know, Spain is leading a European response, a response that will immediately allow us to lower the bill for light by decoupling the price of gas from the price of light. As I say, we are working and we hope that this plan of response to the consequences of the war, which is born of dialogue, which is dynamic, will also have input from your parliamentary group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u102	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u103	Madam Minister, I do not doubt your willingness to take measures to stop the situation. What's more, I don't even question your willingness to make decisions. What I do believe I can see is that reality overwhelms its will to make decisions. I'm going to take a picture of a concrete reality, the one I know. ArcelorMittal, a company in Olaberría, Guipúzcoa, with 400 workers, stop because they are not profitable to produce; Aceria Compacta de Vizcaya, in Sestao, 300 workers, stop because they are not profitable to produce; Sidenor, in Basauri, also in Vizcaya, 800 workers, also closed - it will be for twenty days - because they are not profitable to produce. Frankly, we believe that the tax reduction, which is always the initial measure and I would say that almost definitive they raise, is not the solution. It may be a remedy, but a remedy of limited effectiveness because, in short, we have already seen it with the precedents in the electric bill. We know that every tax reduction involves less resources for public coffers and, therefore, less money for effective social protection policies, more now that there seems to be a belligerent fury and an armamentistic fury that causes us to have to increase spending or to have to increase defence spending. Madam Minister, getting the gas out of the marginalist market is fine, but it is not the solution either. We believe that the solution goes through a special tax rate for electric oligopoly, which has earned a lot of money in these situations, and more, which earns even more money in these situations; for banking, for IBEX 35, for big fortunes, so that they really bring what they say they feel, that is, affection and love for their country. But, above all and fundamentally, we believe that it is time for someone to remind them that Article 128 of the Constitution exists.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u104	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u105	Thank you, President. Mr Matute, I know very well the reality of the companies that are moving me. This afternoon I have a meeting at 5:30, which we have called the main associations of the electro-intensive industry, but also the gas industry, to continue working on measures to respond to the consequences of this war. I must also say that these sectors are supporting the Government to the extent that, as President Sánchez has said, it is going to be key to achieve in the new Council on 24 and 25 and that, as a result of the work we are also doing in Europe, we will have a much more effective plan to respond to the consequences of the war. That is where we have to be parliamentary groups, working in unity, as we are doing with our European partners. We will appreciate all the proposals and I am convinced that if this unit is brought to the response plan, our industry will be strengthened. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: WHAT MEASURES IS TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT HERE AT THE END OF THE YEAR TO MODERNIZE AND GUARANTEE THE SUFFICIENCY AND SUSTAINABLENESS OF OUR PENSION SYSTEM, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION IN THE PLAN FOR RECOVERY, TRANSFORMATION AND RESILENCE? [[File number 180/000837]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u106	Question addressed to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr Tomás Cabezón Casas, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Europe demands reforms, and if they can be, that they be credible. You had to run out to Brussels this week because the first part of the reform was not created there. Before 30 June, it has to approve the new contribution of self-employed persons and before the end of the year, the extension of the contribution period. Here in Parliament, we do not know anything yet, nor do the Spanish. Can you tell us what measures you will take and when? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u108	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u109	Mr Cabezón, I was in Brussels yesterday because there was an emergency European Council to deal with the issue of refugees coming from Ukraine; that is what I was doing in Brussels. Look at how it distorts the version. We are used to this; that is what I did in Brussels: to talk, to be on the EPSO Council and to meet with a number of Commissioners to speak precisely about the united European response to the crisis in Ukraine and, above all, to the refugee crisis, in what is the responsibility of the ministry. Of course, as you know perfectly well, Spain and the ministry have strictly - strictly - complied with all the milestones of the recovery and resilience plan in what has to do with component 30, pensions. I am truly surprised at your interest in this issue now, given that you have voted almost none here in this House; rather, it has been making it difficult - even as we have seen in labour reform - for Spain to succeed in fulfilling the milestones of the recovery and resilience plan. [[Applauds]] Moreover, Mr Cabezón, you supported them at the time, because you are recommendations of the Toledo Pact. I am therefore very pleased to see your interest in this subject at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u110	Mr. Header.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u111	Minister, let's be clear. Europe demands consensus and you have not appeared for the Toledo Pact since November; that is your commitment to consensus reforms in this House. We already have a million self-employed people who see their businesses threatened by inflation, but also by their announced sham to the quotes. Today it is hard for farmers to fill their tractor 1500 euros more per month; for taxi drivers, every time they go to the gas station, it costs 100 euros to fill the deposit, and for small traders, every time they turn on the light of their trade, it costs 35 % of the fixed costs of their business, and you continue to strive to raise the quotes and make cash at the expense of the self-employed. That's your real plan, Mr. Escriva. Its reform has a sanchist stamp: that the self-employed pay more and that they have fewer benefits. And minister, the data don't lie. Where taxes are reduced and barriers removed, entrepreneurs generate more jobs and wealth. I give you two examples: Madrid and Andalusia, two leading communities in job creation, two communities governed by the People's Party. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Where you say you're going to do it, the People's Party does it; that's the difference between you and us. It is clear that you do not help the self-employed, but neither do you help the pensioners. Mr Escriva, are you able to put yourself, for once, on the skin of a pensioner, to whom the pension has been revalued by 2.5%, but to whom the light has risen by 85%, the bread more than 10% and the oil more than 30%? Is that your social shield, Minister? What are you guys gonna do with all that? Mr Escriva, with you pensioners get worse at the end of the month and your policies have made them 5% poorer. Pedro Sánchez already froze the pensions in 2011 and voted in favour of them. We are very afraid that, sooner than later, he will do it again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u112	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u113	Mr. Head, I didn't think you'd go that far. You have voted against, against, in this House to ensure the purchasing power of pensions, and you wanted, as Mrs Gamarra explained very well in the Toledo Pact, to return to the 2013 reform, which would mean a massive loss of purchasing power. [[Applauds]] Mr. Head, you can't be more demagogue than you have been today when you talk about pensioners! Pensioners have now secured purchasing power and are protected by inflation thanks to the change that was introduced in the pension law and to which you voted against because you wanted to return to the 2013 model. [[Applauds]] And if today the workers are going to be protected from many of the disturbances that may come from the war it is because of the labor reform, because the labor reform, has the whole ERTE modality... [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u114	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u115	What did you do with the job reform? They tried to boycott her until the last moment. If they had succeeded, today we would not have the level of protection and the social shield we have at the moment. [[Applauds]] You can't be more demagogue, Mr. Cabezón! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u116	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, to the Minister of Finance and Public Service on the taxation of the scholarships of the orphans of the GermanWings accident For her defense, Mrs Nogueras and Camero has the floor. [[Mrs. Nogueras i Camero]] [[GWI flight 9525 Barcelona-Düsseldorf]] [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to leave the Chamber, I would ask you, please, to do so quickly so that we can resume the plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u117	Thank you, President. Thank you, minister. On March 24, 2015, Germanwings' GWI 9525 flight to the Alps was a disaster. Most of you will remember it not only because there are still no words to describe something so terrible, but because most of you voted in favour of being able to help the orphans of this tragedy that happened seven years ago: 54 orphans in Spain, 82 orphans in total; 54 children who have lost their mother or father or both; 51 families. I am going directly to the issue on which I am asking you, Minister. Lufthansa, at the request of the association of the victims of the tragedy, decides to offer scholarships to orphans in order to ensure that these 82 boys and girls can continue their education, that this is guaranteed. The German Government, at minute one, decides to make the necessary legislative amendments and implement them to leave their orphans exempt from taxes so that they can receive every cent of the scholarship they receive from Lufthansa. On May 29, 2018, this Congress approves the consideration of the proposed law amending the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of March 5, and other tax regulations, the first final provision of which provided for the incorporation of a new additional provision into the law of the IRPF, and I read literally: Additional provision forty-sixth. Extension of personal damage. One. The amounts collected by the family members of the victims of the GWI 9525 accident, which occurred on 24 March 2015, in respect of civil liability or voluntary aid from specific funds created by the airline concerned or by an entity linked to the airline, are exempt from these taxes. Two. The provisions of this additional provision shall apply to tax periods initiated since 1 January 2015. Therefore, on 29 May 2018 admission to the procedure is approved here. During the period of amendments no group submitted any amendments to this provision. You, the Socialist Group, voted in favour of admission under this additional provision and did not make any amendments to that provision either. We understand, then, that you are in favour. It is also what many people from his party have been transferring to the members and to this association. But now it's in your hands, Minister, and they don't, and we'd like to know why. That's why we're questioning her today. I give you a brief summary of some of the things that the victims' families experienced, both with the Rajoy Government and what they are now living with the Sánchez Government. Initially, the Rajoy government received the association in Moncloa, they agreed to the text that I have just read to them and which was approved here and were also invited to Congress. Depending on Fomento, the association has been seen with several high offices, seen with Pedro Saura, seen with the General Directorate of Civil Aviation and seen with a lot of people. They have felt for many years very accompanied, but each time a little less. I'm telling you an anecdote. Eduardo Ruiz is a 77-year-old who lost his son Eduardo, 43. Edward, 77 years old, was invited by the ministry to teach two courses on collaboration in claims and he made him delighted. Now, Edward has to fight for the future of his two grandchildren, Edward's sons, who are called Victoria and Edward. I'm finishing up. The months passed and the presentation was not constituted, as it usually happens with many of the things that are approved here, that do not end up prospering. The legislature fell and this amendment also fell with the legislature. On 13 April 2019, i.e. one year later, the association sent a letter to the President of the Government recalling that the decadent bill contained a tax exemption to favour the 54 orphans of the Germanwings disaster. On 28 May 2019, on behalf of the President of the Spanish Government, Mr.Iván Redondo, director of the Cabinet of the Presidency of the Government, received a reply, where it was literally said: I inform you that we will transfer your letter to the Ministries of Finance and Development, competent bodies to promote the effectiveness of the planned tax exemption and that we will do everything possible to ensure that it is in force as soon as possible during this parliamentary term. On 27 July 2020, more than a year after this commitment, the association of persons concerned sent a new letter addressed to Mr Ivan Redondo as Director of the Office of the Presidency saying that - and I am going to read it again literally - you replied to us, on behalf of the President, with the firm hope that this exemption would be envisaged in this legislature. It is therefore accredited as the most left-wing government specialty of democracy to generate false hopes for the people who are suffering the most and I sincerely hope, Minister, that today you will give us good news. This until today. It has been four years since admission to the procedure will be approved here and has not materialized. It was done - as I said - in Germany. There has not been any dizziness on the victims' families as it has been done here. As always, Minister, I will be very clear to you and I am doing so today with the permission of the members of the association. They have never received a direct refusal from you in four years. Today I ask you to be clear: yes or no, are they going to do it or are they not going to do it? They have generated expectations - we are talking about four years - that they have not met. We can't, they told me from the Ministry of Finance a few months ago. And my question is, what can't you? Don't you know from day one? I think they can, Minister, but they don't want to, but they would have already done it. Only one thing is needed to do the right thing: political will. The support of almost all forces has it. Political will, as the German Government has had and as the one you have been looking at for four years. Compensation is calculated on the basis of damage. If it is estimated that orphans should perceive equidae, it is very difficult to justify that the State - its State - should remain 40% of that equidae. Same with the scholarships. If it is estimated that these boys and girls need equities in order to continue with their studies, with their training, it is very difficult to justify that the state stays 40% of them. Of the misfortune of others a state cannot make a box. This is a model of state that we neither accept nor, of course, share. Do you know, Minister, the impact of what you are going to collect or what you have already collected? Do you know the exact amount that you take away from them from these scholarships and what does this amount represent for you and what does this amount represent for them? The association has never received a cent from the Administration, never; nor has it ever asked because it is not money that they want. What they want is, no more or less, what they want. I suppose you are now going to tell us that on 15 December 2020 the Council of Ministers approved the Preliminary Draft Law on Procedural Efficiency Measures of the Public Justice Service, which includes an additional provision where it is not very clear whether it expands or reduces the circumstances under which compensation for physical or psychological damage must be imposed. According to some sources, the initiative limits the assumptions that the accident victims are taxing in more cases and others argue otherwise, saying that the proposal seeks to broaden the assumptions that accident compensation does not tax in the IRPF. In any case, what is surprising is that on such a sensitive issue, the Government has been turning it around for a year and a half. In any case, to us this topic today seems to us that it is not the one we have on the table, because if you tell us about this preliminary draft the feeling that it gives me is that they again put on the table another excuse not to address an issue for which they must already make a decision. You must make decisions and you are not. I insist, I hope you will explain to us today some decision you have made. We are talking about an exemption that you voted in favour of applying and that, once you have been in the government, you have so far neglected. Minister, these families want to close folders and we're not getting too easy for them to close this folder too. So I'm going to ask you the question directly. I put my voice to what the victims' families are asking you: will you leave tax-free, as Germany did, the scholarships received by the orphans of the Germanwings disaster, as you voted in 2018, as committed by the president of the Spanish government and as your party has been transferring the same orphans? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Your Honor. Indeed, Mrs Nogueras, you are asking me about a tragedy that occurred on 24 March 2015. I think we all remember. The co-pilot of Germanwings flight 9525 crashed his plane on a premeditated basis in the French Alps. In fact, next week will be seven years after the fatal accident. Please note, Mrs Nogueras, that it seems to me at least pretentious to try, in a political formation, to take exclusive pride in the voice of the victims. The victims belong to no one, Mrs. Nogueras. They do not belong to him when they are victims of an aircraft accident or when they are victims of any other matter, or when they are victims of terrorism. The victims, of course, what they deserve is recognition and, therefore, also reparation for the damage that the administrations can do, but none of us are legitimized to try to be that voice exclusively. As he has explained, the plane flew from Barcelona to Düsseldorf with 150 people who lost their lives; 54 of the victims were Spanish. The inquiry you put forward deals with the tax treatment of part of the insurance company and the airline that agreed with the victims' family members. Before we enter that fiscal debate, I want to say, Your Honor, that human life is priceless and we are aware that no compensation can compensate for the loss of loved ones in a tragedy. The compensation provided by the insurance companies is aid that seeks to alleviate this pain by making the lives of those affected a little easier; an even greater pain in the children of the victims who lose the people who care for them, who are their referents and who guide their development. I insist that there is no money that compensates for so much pain and, therefore, I ask that in this kind of debate we do not go into comparing who cares more or who cares less about the victims. I think we all care and, therefore, it's about seeing how we can help. You know, moreover, that you will never find me in this debate, because you have to be aware that this government - I would say, like all of your ladies and gentlemen - is not alien to this or any other tragedy. In the context of the inquiry, it should be recalled that article 7 of the Income Tax Act provides for a list of tax exemptions, including compensation for civil liability for personal damage in the amount legally or legally recognized. Therefore, Your Honor, in order to enjoy the exemption, compensation must be regarded as civil liability and, in addition, must be included in a rule or laid down in the judicial sphere. The Tax Directorate has interpreted the latter issue in the broadest sense and it is understood that the requirement for access to the exemption is met when the amount of compensation is fixed by a judge or court, but intermediate formulas such as acts of judicial conciliation, break-in, renunciation or judicial transactions are also accepted. In simple words, the broadest interpretation of the legal precept is being made. I detail this, Your Honor, because I think it is important to bear in mind that most of the compensation that the victims received and that reached a pact with the insurers - also those who went to court - were covered by the exemption provided for in the current legislation. In other words, family members did not tax civil liability compensation. But having clarified this point, you ask me about a concrete fact, not so much for the taxation of civil liability compensation, but for a five million euro aid fund that Lufthansa, the parent company of Germanwings, and also Allianz, the insurer, created to finance the studies of the children and young people who lost their parents in the accident. I would like to remind you that Lufthansa opened a five-year period to receive applications; a period that ended in December 2020. Therefore, Your Honor, we are focusing, in particular, on this issue. I am saying this because the question may seem to cover the rest of the issues. I insist, compensation does not tax, it is the study aid that we are analysing in this inquiry. In principle, as I have just commented, according to the law, these aids are taxed as any other aid granted by a private entity. It is equivalent, for tax purposes, for example, to the scholarships for studies which some companies grant to the children of employees and which the beneficiaries are obliged to declare. But, Your Honor, I believe that all the people who are present in the Chamber can share that we are not dealing with a similar case and that there are reasons to justify a different tax treatment, more advantageous for the study aid that a company grants after an air disaster has occurred, resulting in a very large amount of loss of life. That is why I am already forwarding you - I think you were commenting on this in your speech about the majority group that supports the government - that the Ministry of Finance will soon bring the solution to this House. In other words, there is a commitment to resolve this issue and our ideals to do so before the liquidation of the IRPF takes place for the financial year 2021. Mrs Nogueras, you spoke in your speech about various initiatives that have been brought here to include study grants among the exemptions from the IRPF. I would like to recall that the Socialist Group voted in favour of this measure in March 2018 and that it was included in a bill, specifically the one amending the Local Finance Regulatory Act and other tax rules, but it will also recall other elements, including the rejection of the General Budgets Bill for 2019, a bill that its group rejected on that occasion and which provoked an electoral call on 29 April and, therefore, the dissolution of the Courts, with the consequent loss of the processing of the bill, which fell due to the end of the session. Subsequently, I would also like to remind you that it was impossible to form a government after those elections, which led us to a new electoral call in November 2019 and, legitimately, Your Honor, your group did not support either that investiture or the rules that accompanied it, and that was when the new Executive took possession of the global pandemic by COVID 2020, in which we are still immersed. It will be about three months ago that you yourself, Mrs Nogueras, submitted on behalf of the Plural Parliamentary Group a non-legislative proposal to discuss the tax exemption from the aid we are talking about in the Finance Committee. The presentation took place on 15 December and has not yet been discussed. In March 2021 you and Member Joan Margall presented another non-legislative proposal which has also not been discussed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I have limited myself to making, as you have done, a chronological reminder of how the different events have happened, because I believe - I believe - that there is absolute unanimity on the part of this House to vote on or support that amendment which the Government will present. In any case, Your Honor, that said, in what I believe is quite a consensus on the part of everyone and that I should not present any kind of rift or political debate, I think, Your Honor, that you slip sometimes with some comments from the rostrum that are offensive to me. Box, Mrs. Nogueras? Do you really believe that any government makes a box? It's like I'm gonna ask you what the Government of the Generalitat has done with the victims, has it made a box? I wouldn't dare, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Applauds]] I think it is a serious enough issue for us to take it this way and therefore we do not transfer large adjectives or value judgments, which I am convinced do not correspond to the attitude of any of the ladies and gentlemen, nor of the Government of the Generalitat, Mrs Nogueras. I therefore believe that the important thing is that we can all share and agree that, when the Government brings in some of the legislative texts by amendment, this issue will count on the absolute unanimity of all the groups present here; I understand that. We will go beyond the legal wording, which has the inconvenience that I have just commented on at the beginning of my speech. In the next rent campaign, those who have declared it or have done so in the year 2021 will be returned that money in liquidation, I can even tell you that all those who have declared it in pre-2021 fiscal years will have that refund. I believe that, with this sensitivity and relying on the majority feeling that in all the initiatives that have been presented in this House, we can transfer to the citizens that politics cares about their problems, much more in a tragedy like the Germanwings air accident. I therefore believe that a response will be given to what you are asking for, which I understand from the government that is just, and before the liquidation the government will bring a solution that I am convinced will have the unanimity of the groups present in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u121	Thank you, President. Thank you, minister. The victims belong to no one; I can no longer agree with this. That is why we have never transferred exclusivity, it would only be missing, even if you have hinted that it has; everyone can recover the intervention we have made. What we have done has been to stand, to stand before their silence and their incomparence in recent years, and they deserve answers, answers that no one has given them. We have not been the voice of anyone, but we have stood by him. I will never find myself in this debate, you say; a debate that you have drawn and in which I am sure I will not enter. I think I have been very clear when I asked the question and I will repeat it so that it is clear and there is no doubt: are you going to leave tax-free, as Germany did, the study grants - study grants - that were received by the orphans of the Germanwings disaster, as you voted in 2018 - we are in 2022 and have been ruling for more than two years -, as committed by the President of the Spanish Government, Mr Sánchez, and as your party has been transferring the same orphans? The President of the Spanish Government has a formal commitment to the families of those who died of the Germanwings disaster for nearly three years; the letter I have read to you before dates from 28 May 2019. You are today most responsible that the word of a socialist is worth nothing and it is up to you to begin to be true. You even said it was our fault. It's all the fault of Together, because the legislature fell because of us. It must also be our fault that during these years that we have been ruling we have not left them, for example - and it occurred to me while we were listening to him - to introduce an amendment to any of the omnibus projects that you have been presenting over these two years, the royal decree after the royal decree, in which you have brought us all together. It is only a matter of political will, Minister, to have introduced this additional provision into any of the laws that have been voted over these two years, and I cannot understand you waiting at the last minute to fulfill what you promised four years ago. When it comes to things or more superficial issues, we get angry and already, but when it comes to issues that directly affect people who are suffering, it is our responsibility to denounce it, to condemn it and to demand action as well. I would like to know what model of society defends those who collect with the misfortune of others. And I would also like to know if you really have any doubts as to whether compensation should be imposed on the IRPF or not. What do we keep from what happened today? With which you have pledged to return the money to the relatives, the money they owe to ensure that the 54 boys and girls can continue to study and train, as this cannot be done by their parents anymore. I'm on my way. This is a matter of sensitivity, political sense and technical adequacy to the purpose for which taxes are collected and by which some defend solidarity as the fundamental principle and value of our society. I insist, Minister, I wish you would fulfill what you have said and these people can finally close this folder. And I hope that you will not use this subject again to insult me or my training. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Nogueras, insult you in this debate? You can read the Journal of Sessions and tell me what phrase, what adjective or what word I have used to insult it. But if you've told me we're cashing in with the pain of the victims! What happens to them, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, when they are given arguments? What happens to you that you immediately speak of faults and insults when it is you who do it? [[Applauds]] [[The Lord]] Let's see, Mrs. Nogueras, you have asked me again: are you going to leave you tax-free? I've told you bluntly: yes. And before the liquidation of the 2021 income campaign, we will bring the rule to this House, which I hope will have unanimity. Do you know what's going on, Mrs. Nogueras? That you know there's an agreement with the Republican Left of Catalonia to bring it in. Of course, you know that and that is why you present this inquiry here today. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Your Honor, I am glad that the rest of the political formations... [[Mrs. Nogueras i Camero hits her cheek with her hand]] I didn't make any gestures to him. The one you're doing on your face, Your Honor, the spectators don't see it, but you're telling me that I have a heart, and I think it's time to banish from this House those kind of gestures that hide behind the seats. [[Applauds]] Because I sincerely believe, Mrs Noguera, that we agree on this issue and that I have tried to conduct this debate in such a way that we really cause, if possible, the greatest comfort to the victims; that they know that all the political groups agree; that they know that there is a purpose on the part of the Government and the groups to resolve this issue before the liquidation of 2021, and not just for the amounts declared in that fiscal year, also, as I have said, to return, if any, in a statement before that date. I believe, therefore, that I have been extraordinarily clear and that the political groups must accompany in respect, in relief, to the extent of our possibilities, in pain for these people, because there has not been silence, as you have said, and there has been no incomparence. In my political formation whenever this debate has taken place, whenever there has been a vote on this subject, we have acted accordingly, Mrs Nogueras. So, the question is, why do you want to...? [[Mrs. Nogueras i Camero makes negative gestures]] You tell me no. I believe that yes, that whenever there has been any initiative in this House in this respect my political formation has spoken in favour, and if there is any case in which it has not been done, I will be happy to resolve it. I'll take what's important, Mrs. Nogueras. I remain with the majority, and I would say that we all share the solution to this problem. Therefore, honourable Member, in order for this to be done, in order for it to be effective, and that is what I wanted to say in my first speech, the necessary votes must be cast so that the rules can be dealt with. And in that first intervention I did not blame you for anything, I have shown that the rules that you have brought to this House have not been able to deal with because there has been the dissolution of the Courts because, among other reasons, you do not support a budget. I do not think that is offensive, Your Honor, I do not think that is guilty and, therefore, with all these explanations I stress again that I believe that we have to banish from this debate issues such as those that you have transmitted from models of society in which some are cash. This is what you say in the gallery, Mrs.Nogueras!It is that you say that I lack respect for your formation and so far I have not said anything that can be offensive. And you're talking about my executive taking part in a model of society that makes money with the victims. I remind you again, what has your party done in the Government of the Generalitat to repair economically the damage to the victims? From what I understand, he hasn't done anything. In any case, we are left with the important, with the quiet, with the confidence of the victims of this accident. The Executive shall bring, before the income is settled, in an amendment, the rule allowing the repayment of these amounts if declared and the exemption, and therefore the legal change of the IRPF Act, so that this type of issue does not tax the IRPF and therefore such aid can go in full to the beneficiaries, to the recipients, as are the orphans resulting from an accident that I hope would never have occurred. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u124	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM ON THE MEASURES I PROVIDED FOR [[EAJ-PNV]] To be adopted before the review of the existing energy and raw materials crisis by the invasion of Ukraine. [[File number 172/000182]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u125	The Basque Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism about the measures it plans to take in the face of the resurgence of the pre-existing energy crisis and raw materials for the invasion of Ukraine. [[EAJ-PNV]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u126	Thank you, President. Egun on. Thank you, Minister. Good morning, egun on. Today more than a month ago you were asked about energy costs, the high energy costs that the industry is bearing. They asked him today about the closure of companies and the cessation of production in this same session, and yesterday we also had a GNP that advocated a reindustrialisation. My group is going to ask you again today because we are concerned about industry, an industry that generates around 13% of GDP in the Spanish State and 24% in Euskadi, and that, after COVID, we understand that it should and should play a predominant role in economic recovery and that, however, it is burdened, among other factors, by the high energy costs. You see, different parties that we are really concerned about the industry, because today, you will share with me, it is time to help the industry for the high energy costs that it is bearing and that have made its bill, with the war of Ukraine, three and four times higher than it had before the war. A year ago, she asked from this rostrum about the measures of her ministry to boost certain key sectors in the economy and which had to be that engine of recovery, sectors with a high impact on employment, technological development and the development of related sectors, and in addition that they were highly exporting and innovative, and to see, sectors such as automotive, naval, metal, paper, construction, transport, which had to be tractors, today what they are trying to do is to survive, not to close, since they are involved in a perfect storm: bottlenecks, shortage and increase in the price of raw materials and supplies necessary for their activity, increase in the prices of emission rights and, if anything, electricity and gas prices, which they cannot cope with and it is impossible to transfer to customers and suppliers. In short, an explosive cocktail that is not only putting industry at risk, but is also putting economic recovery and growth at risk, a recovery that depends to a large extent on these Next Generation funds and on the implementation of the pacts in key sectors that are supposed to be able to transform the productive fabric and for which there are issues, minister, such as the need to have semiconductors or chips and the provision of certain raw materials, for which there is no safe or stable supply. We're going back to being dependent. Industry relied on a Ministry of Industry to have a clear road map, to empathize with its demands and to be coordinated with energy policy, because the price of energy is a key element for its competitiveness and it is clear that something fails when the price of energy becomes an obstacle to such competitiveness. High energy prices have been a constant in the Spanish state. The industry has always been denouncing this competitive disadvantage which was at high prices to European counterparts, such as France and Germany, who have always had lower regulated costs and higher aid mechanisms, and which no government here has dealt with in a structural way, although it has acted in the face of temporary and temporary situations. His ministry, on axis number seven of the Guidelines General of the New Industrial Policy 2030, said that the main energy cost that Spanish industries have to face is the derivative of electricity consumption. Predictability, stability and competitiveness of electricity prices are therefore essential to facilitate sustainable industrial activity. And he said: the decarbonisation of the energy system will make it possible to meet this expectation; until it is a reality, we must monitor the evolution of the energy cost of the industry. And I wonder, where's that follow-up? Or more than a statement was it a guiding principle? Because the truth is that today we are faced with an extraordinary situation of high prices because we have not been able to foresee the consequences of a return to activity after the period of confinement or the consequences of energy planning perhaps hastened, with a delay in the implementation of renewable energies and without being clear the role that these should play within existing or available technologies, and for which it was and is necessary to have a technology to support which, by certain decisions, we are dependent today: gas. A gas still necessary because renewables are intermittent - we still have storage - and because in the short term there are no viable alternatives to replace gas in certain industries. And, of course, it will not be because this group has not warned on more than one occasion of the temporary need for gas on that path to transition. A price escalation that is not new, because already in the second half of 2021 we saw this strong increase. Electricity prices rose by an annual average in 2021 by around 228 % compared to 2020. And gas prices will increase by an annual average by 2021 by around 400 % compared to 2020. A price escalation in Spain that is at its highest levels, with the light marking monthly records since July, the gas fired by the shortage of gas storage in Europe and the geopolitical and war tensions, which were already generating tensions in consumers and in particular in industry. Today we are still in a context of high prices, which has also been exacerbated by the war and which is, of course, affecting much more those autonomous communities that are industrial. ArcelorMittal, Lucart, Celsa, Acerinox, Ferroglobe, Portland Cement, Asturiana de Zinc, have reduced their production; others, such as Olarra Steels or Tubacex, monitor day by minute the price of energy to take action; others have presented ERTE, as Mr Baldoví said today regarding the blue industry, which depends on gas. The alliance for competitiveness calls for urgent measures, and is that at a time of recovery and transition to a new productive model we cannot afford to lose a single industry, because of its impact on stable and high-quality employment, on investment, on research and innovation and, of course, on wealth generation. Therefore - and you like to talk about certainties -, look, there are several that are obvious: resurgence of the problems arising from the post-pandemic recovery, such as bottlenecks, increasing energy prices, transport, shortage of raw materials and components, which are of course generating a very complicated scenario for the productive tissue and for economic recovery; energy emergency arising from the dependence of raw materials; energy crisis also, but this time, yes, as an aggravation for the impulse of projects linked to the energy and productive transformation and for them to take off those PERTE, which have not just done so. And also - and this has not been said - uncertainty about the impact of the sanctions imposed on Russia on these exports, especially industrial equipment and machine tools. A response is needed from his ministry, in coordination of course with the Ecological Transition and also in co-governance, to protect companies from this spiral of unprecedented costs, whose economic bill can have a far greater impact than the measures to be taken. The aim is to protect industry, to protect jobs against this escalation of electricity, gas and fuel prices. An industry that was trying to recover from the pandemic and that does not yet count, minister, with the European funds because they have not just arrived at the companies. There is a need to protect the competitiveness of industry with urgent, flexible and agile measures enabling companies to compete and survive in this European environment, where other governments have already taken action. And it is that, Minister, while all electricity prices in the wholesale market have been triggered, the fact is that the French industry is going to pay much less than the Spanish industry, because it has much more aid. That is why we believe that it is time to address new measures and it is up to us to lead. Because, to a large extent, economic recovery and growth must come from the industrial sector. We cannot wait for Brussels to allow gas to be decoupled from the price of the light receipt, because it will not be an effective measure either today or tomorrow, although it is true that we must push and hope that it will arrive soon. But, look, even if there is a disconnection, it is necessary to take additional measures because industrial companies are based on a condition that is not equal to their European counterparts, because, as I said, they have much more aid, compensation for costs and even compensation for indirect costs of CO2. We cannot deny that the Government has tried to cushion this price rise through extraordinary and temporary regulatory measures - tax cuts, charges, electro-intensive status - but that they are clearly inefficient because the situation has changed and because it now turns out that stopping is more profitable than producing. But, in addition, we also believe that it is time for your ministry to give an industrial response in this new context, which can serve, as I said, as a catalyst for the implementation of renewable energy and hydrogen projects to reduce that dependence, achieve much more competitive prices and transform the productive fabric. And that means you have to speed up projects and decide where, how and when to move from ads to facts. Let's get this straight, please. Similarly, minister, it is necessary for us from your ministry to clarify the measures to ensure the supply or disposal of raw materials that are today considered essential - if not strategic - for key technological products, such as the electric vehicle and its recharge or battery infrastructures, because otherwise the issue or feasibility of the LOSS WITH EC could be put at risk; une PERTE, minister, which was announced in June, which today continues in beard and which is indispensable for the automotive sector, a sector affected not only by the crisis of semiconductors, but also by the high prices of hydrocarbons. Activate that car table for that purpose, which we are already late; a table which he promised to convene in September and which today does not exist. Finally, it is necessary to know the measures that will be promoted for the industries that export these industrial equipment - machine tools or others - which are affected by the sanctions imposed on Russia and which affect their portfolio of orders. They have had to paralyse their production and reorganize their activities. More explicitly, I would like to know what is going to happen to those guarantees granted by financial institutions in favour of Russian companies that are requesting their execution at the first request. In short, if we do not want to lose the train of conversion, of transformation, we need certainty, security and agility in the measures to be taken in the face of this new situation aggravated by the war in Ukraine. Industry, today more than ever, needs the help of an industrial policy that, in line with energy policy, faces this energy crisis, aggravated by the war in Ukraine, and provides support and aid to industry in the face of the structural problems it was already facing, as well as the challenges that this green, digital and sustainable transition is going to entail, because - I am sorry to say, minister - we have not so far seen a firm, solid and decisive industrial policy. At such a complicated time it is necessary to move forward and take action at the pace imposed by the situation and the juncture of the moment if we do not want to lose that train of competitiveness and progress or recovery. One of the main demands of the sector, minister, has been that there be its ministry, a ministry that understands and will push those necessary industrial policies, that listen to the sector and accompany it, and the sector continues to wait today. I told you last year, it has in its hand the possibility of leading an industrial policy, which, coordinated with energy policy and in co-government with the autonomous communities, can bear great fruit. Therefore, today we ask you to clarify us and outline concrete measures. The industry is waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u127	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u128	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you, Mrs Sagastizabal, for raising this question because it certainly allows us to put certainties at a difficult time for businesses and also for citizens, because, as a result of the impact of the war in Ukraine, we have to give a unanimous response in this House. A response, as I said, that we need to provide solutions to the problems arising from this war, some - to which you referred - inherited from months ago, and we are doing so with the Member States of the European Union and NATO allies in order to stop the war and restore peace. This unity - I mentioned earlier - was demonstrated on the weekend in the La Palma declaration, where the Government and the Autonomous Communities signed four agreements which will allow us to draw up a road map to respond to the consequences of the war and not only to businesses and families; such important answers as humanitarian aid and the reception of refugees or the deployment of European funds, which will certainly allow us, as you have rightly pointed out, to strengthen our energy autonomy but also our industrial autonomy. A plan to respond to the consequences of the war aimed at strengthening and ensuring institutional cooperation, but also with economic actors, to respond to the socio-economic consequences of the Russian invasion. I hope that we can count on the support of all the parliamentary groups because we do not know how long this situation will last and it is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to give confidence and certainty to those affected by the war in our country, as we are doing with the displaced who are suffering the consequences of this unjustified attack. And the first thing I would like to do clearly - I do it whenever I go up to this rostrum - is to defend the government's commitment to industry in this country. You blamed me for things and told me that we had to move from words to deeds. I think that when you look at the general budgets of the state of 2022 you can see that it is evident that this commitment is materialized in a significant increase in those budgets in order to advance the modernization of our industry and accompany it to make it more competitive. We did so, ladies and gentlemen, during the pandemic and, no doubt, we will also do so to face this new uncertainty, because, as I say, war forces us to give answers. To articulate an effective response plan, we need, as Mrs Sagastizabal has pointed out, to know the problems we face, such as the rise in the energy costs of some raw materials or also the lack of supplies in some industrial sectors. Firstly, as you know, the cause of rising energy prices in international markets is mainly due to the evolution of gas, which has also intensified as a result of the Putin war. To better understand this price escalation it is necessary to contextualize where we come from. The background to the rise in energy prices must be sought in the situation intentionally provoked by Russia in order to strain the gas and electricity markets in the European Union, with the sole aim, ladies and gentlemen, of undermining the European economic recovery. Despite the recovery scenario sustained after the VID-19, with a significant increase in aggregate demand, Russia did not increase gas production but was removing gas from storage in Europe, as you know, since last year, causing prices to rise continuously since 2021. This restriction on gas supply has contributed to the extraordinary price rise that we are currently observing and that is influencing electricity prices by the very formation of the marginalist system. It is therefore important that the European dependence on Russian gas should be reduced not only to avoid financing the current war and therefore the authoritarian regime in Putin, but also because, as the Spanish Government has been insisting on the European Commission for months, we need gas disconnection in this marginalist European system to protect our industry and also to protect vulnerable consumers. You ask me what the Government has done and what we are going to do to alleviate the impact of energy prices, which, as I say, we have been observing in recent months. We have adopted, ladies and gentlemen, four royal decrees, which have had a tax cost of more than EUR 10 billion. Industry has been one of the sectors most benefited by the tax rebates that we have approved, in four ways. The first, for the lower charges. We have also suspended the value of electricity production tax; we have lowered the excise duty on electricity from 5.11% to 0.5 %. We have also allowed the electro-intensive industry to bid on futures energy contracts, either directly as buyers, or indirectly by acquiring energy from one of the importing traders. These are measures that the industry was asking of us and which today, ladies and gentlemen, are a reality. In short, we have acted to reduce the energy bill through two channels, as I said: reducing tax burdens by more than 60% compared to 2018 and also reducing charges by 96% compared to 2018. In addition, as I said, the Government is leading a response in Europe through active dialogue with Member States to change the rules of the electricity market and decouple gas from the price of light. As you know, the President is starting today a tour of eight European countries to get the necessary support to support this measure. We also propose very important measures, such as the centralised purchase of gas at European level, increasing the independence of Russian gas through the diversification of suppliers or the deployment, to which you have referred, of renewable energies, for which we have PART ERA, which will undoubtedly also be an aggravation to boost investments and increase the weight of renewables in our energy mix. These measures at European level will be discussed at the next European Council on 24 and 25 March, and the Government also needs, as the President of the Government has said, the support, of course, of the parliamentary groups, the social partners and the autonomous communities to go to this important meeting with one voice. The Government defends industry, the Government defends consumers, especially the most vulnerable, and we certainly expect the unanimous support of all parliamentary groups. Alongside these measures, we have also taken others to minimise the impact of energy prices on industry, to which I would like to refer and which show the Government's commitment to industry, especially the electro-intensive industry, but also the intensive gas. We have approved, Your Honor, EUR 357 million of aid to the large industry to adopt energy efficiency measures; EUR 200 million in public guarantees to facilitate long-term bilateral procurement, a coverage offered by the Spanish Guarantee Fund for E-Intensive Entities; we have increased CO2 compensation up to EUR 179 million, with the commitment to reach the maximum CO2 compensation that the European Commission allows us for this year, and we have also defined an amount of EUR 91 million to compensate for the charges for the industry. These are measures that are undoubtedly being effective, but the invasion of Ukraine has exacerbated the problems of industry and therefore we need that plan of response to the consequences of the war. We also expect, as you said, the participation of all the parliamentary groups and of course your party, Mrs Sagastizabal. Some of the measures that could be taken in this response plan have already been advanced by the President of the Government. With regard to taxation, the President announced that he would extend until 30 June the reduced rate of VAT to 10% for electricity, the suspension of the value tax on electricity production or the excise duty on electricity. The president also announced in this rostrum that during the year 2022 the electro-intensive industry will be protected by reducing 80% of the tolls to more than 600 electro-intensive consumers or extending until 30 June flexibility measures in contracts for the supply of natural gas to industrial consumers. We will also approve a new additional renewable energy auction this year and, as the third vice-president announced today, also a cogeneration auction. This afternoon I have a meeting with the main industrial associations, where we are going to deal with these issues and we are going to strengthen - I am convinced - that plan of response to the war in order to get out, as we emerged in the pandemic, reinforced by this new uncertainty. I would also like to brief you on other actions being undertaken by my ministry, the Secretariat of State for Trade, to which you referred, to help companies that are currently directly affected by the conflict; companies that either have industrial plants in Ukraine or Russia or maintain trade flows with these countries. We have had a constant dialogue with these companies, in fact, every Friday there is a meeting, with more than three hundred companies, as we have held meetings with the CEOE, the Spanish Chamber, the territorial chambers and the territorial and provincial directorates of the Secretariat of State for Trade. We have also opened a mailbox that allows us to receive queries and attend to them in order to give the quickest response. I can tell you that we have already responded to more than 158 consultations, which shows the closeness of our rapid response to the uncertainty situations we are experiencing. In conclusion, I will also refer to an important measure that we have promoted from the Ministry of Industry, incorporating into the draft law amending the National Security Act, which, as you know, is currently being dealt with in the courts. The measure I am referring to is the creation within this bill of the strategic reserve based on national industrial production capacities, RECAPI, and the creation of a centre for coordination and promotion of the strategic industry. The mechanism for managing the supply of strategic first-requirement resources that we incorporate into the RECAPI transcends traditional storage in warehouses, as we were used to, to implement a genuine strategic reserve based on a national industrial production capacity, which we also hope to reinforce as a result of the implementation of the PERTE. Yesterday, we presented a new PERTE of support for the naval industry, which is very important for its autonomous community, Your Honor, and we hope, as I said, that all the parliamentary groups will participate in order to continue to support our industry, so that it will be competitive and that, no doubt, a single voice will emerge from here in defence of the industry and unanimity so that the answer will be effective and decisive. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u129	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u130	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Today you have done a detailed analysis of the situation, and that is fine. Throughout the session, and you have just said this, we have heard words such as unity and road map; unity with which my group will of course agree if the measures to be taken are appropriate and a road map to be translated into concrete measures. It is true that there is a commitment in that budget, as you have said, but it is that the budget, as long as it is not implemented, does not serve the intended purpose and, therefore, that implementation is necessary because what is available is an implementation forecast. Today, moreover, in this session, his counterparts and his counterparts have outlined concrete measures, yes, which were already being implemented, but they must be updated to the current context. As I have said before, these measures are already insufficient because the new prices have already absorbed the benefits of these measures. He tells us again about the gas disconnection on the bill that Mr Sánchez is pushing in Europe, which we share, but what if it is not achieved, and if it is not reached? Are you going to take any specific action here? We have called for measures to achieve competitive prices, avoiding stoppages, closures and relocations, measures to minimise dependence on raw materials, measures to vehicularise PERTS and measures to ensure that industry is in competition with European counterparts, and it is true that it has told us a few. It is about reducing energy costs that do not need European approval, so we also advocate this reduction of tolls, but perhaps we should also allow these power changes and even modify these access rates and talk about a night rate. He has told us about the electro-intensive status, but he has not raised a reformulation of it either, because it is a very difficult statute to comply with. The obligations, let us say, are much higher than the aid they receive and do not reflect the uniqueness of this hyperintensive industry, which you have been here claiming an ad hoc status for them. Are you going to do it now? Is that electro-intensive status going to be reviewed? You have told us about increasing the compensation for the indirect costs of CO2 from industry up to 25%, and we, by the way, have agreed to that amendment, which you did not foresee, in the Climate Change Act, but today it has only been met in part, Minister - you have told us about 179 million - but it is that 25% is much more. They're gonna do it? Because the industry needs it and it can mean an important cut in that price. He has also told us about this coverage mechanism, I imagine it is the FERGIE, which covers this risk of default to the PPPs that are being pushed, and it seems very good to us, but it is that we must continue to push and we must reform it because companies cannot access it. Why? Because they have to be characterized as electrointensive industries, so we come back to those limitations in order to gain access to that status. So, are you going to modify this too? Also, you have told us about the LOST, and it is well, as you have told us about a naval LOST, that we will support, but, do you know that song of word, word, word? I keep saying the same thing to you: words, because they are announcements and they have not started and, moreover, there is PERTE that come from a previous situation and that we have to adapt to this new situation. Companies need these investments to be able to move forward. He has told us about energy efficiency, and we will also agree there because we are also taking action in the Basque Country in this regard, but we need to speed up all these processes. How, when and where? He also told us about strategic reserves, when will they be approved, how? Are all these microchips, semiconductors, raw materials going to be guaranteed? We need more concretions, and if they go in that line, in the line of helping the industry, of lowering those prices, of going for rebates on CO2 tolls and compensations, they will count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u131	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u132	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we certainly share the concern in defending industry and how important it is for our country. In the face of a new uncertainty, we have to work together, I have said, not only to preserve the industrial capacities and jobs we have today, but to strengthen it. Reindustrialization is an objective of this Government. Look, a week ago in a Basque newspaper we read: The Basque industry starts the year with a rise of 7%, just a week ago, that means that the measures we put in place to defend the industry, to protect it and, above all, to relaunch industrial capacities during the pandemic have been effective. If today we are again talking about industry and its problems it is because the Putin war has exacerbated, through the rise of energy prices, the problems in the supplies of raw materials; an industry that, you may be quiet, we will continue to defend, protecting, but above all, as I said, pushing, because for us it is very important, I say again, the reindustrialisation of our country. This is the road map that we also incorporate into recovery plans, plans that are already under way. Your ladies and gentlemen insist that the funds do not arrive, but I could give you examples of your region, of the Basque Country, in which Basque companies are receiving these funds through the various instruments that we have already launched in 2021 and that will be strengthened in 2022. Without a doubt, the new PERTE of the naval industry also represents an opportunity to diversify an industry that is leading, that is technological leader - yesterday we gave the data -, we are the second producer of ships in Europe. It is a pride for this country to be able to work also to relaunch, to strengthen the naval industry. You referred to some proposals. As you know, we have just started today with the People's Party and all the parliamentary groups a constructive dialogue, we hope, to give content to the response plan that the President announced here in this very forum to the consequences of the war, a plan where - I am convinced - industry will be. It's already done. I have advanced some of the proposals that we have already announced will go into that response plan, industry demands that are now incorporated into that plan, and probably, as I said, after this dialogue with parliamentary groups and the work we are doing in the various ministries there will be an important package to protect, but also, I insist, to relaunch our industry. You were talking about the commitment to some of the instruments that we have already put in place, for example CO2 compensation. I've said it and I'll say it again. Our commitment is to reach the maximum this year to compensate the CO2 of the electrointensive industry, as we have done in previous years. Last year we distributed 179 million, which was 97% of all the money the companies asked for. Therefore, we have fulfilled, and again this year we will fulfill. He was also talking about the strategic reserve, where we started working as a result of the impact of the pandemic. The pandemic also taught us many weaknesses that our productive sector had, the lack of raw materials, essential products, such as masks or breathers. It is therefore a reservation that is being debated today in Congress and that we hope that, once the law is passed, we can give content and work with parliamentary groups to identify the critical elements in which we need to be able to respond in anticipation of future crises, the second that we are now living as a result of the war and the pandemic. You were talking about reviewing the status of the electric intensive consumer. I am open to that debate. I believe that, once we have deployed the statute, that we have seen its strengths, but also its weaknesses, we can - I am convinced - open a constructive debate on the revision of this instrument or of others that we have launched and that undoubtedly constitute an element of confidence, of certainty, so that industry has the instruments to be competitive. In short, Your Honor, we are open to dialogue, we are a dialogue government, a government that defends industry and a government that will do everything in our power to protect it again, as we did in the pandemic, and we count - I am convinced - on you, but also on all parliamentary groups, to shape this important response plan. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u133	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u134	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress for the Minister of the Interior to report on the successive assaults on the Melilla fence and on the policy of his ministry for the prevention and control of them. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u135	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this motion from the Group of the European People's Party to tackle the serious problem of irregular migration. We were very attentive to Mr Marlaska's intervention. If it is serious that a minister lies in parliamentary office, it is even more serious when he does so knowingly. The Minister of the Interior of the European Pact on Migration and Asylum spoke, encouraging the People's Party, yes, encouraging the People's Party, to join this pact, when from the beginning we have expressed our support for this necessary pact and agreement in Europe. The problem really is with Mr Marlaska and his government partners. We can have joined Bildu and Esquerra Republicana in a non-legislative rejection of this European Pact on Migration and Asylum, which addresses migration policy within the framework of the European Union. These agreements, socialist ladies and gentlemen, between Bildu and Esquerra Republicana do put Spanish democracy at risk, these agreements do embarrass the citizens of this country, these agreements do, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. But they do not believe that the lies of the Minister of the Interior remained here. Mr Marlasca stressed the Government's commitment to cooperation and work with the countries of origin. Ladies and gentlemen, the bilateral meeting between Spain and Morocco was suspended in December 2020 and has not been held since then. I don't think there's anything else to say. Nor is it part of the Government's priorities to improve our border perimeters. As far as the Melilla fence is concerned, as everyone knows, the previous systems were eliminated. In January 2019 they approved the new investment to install the so-called inverted penalties. Well, we are in March 2022 and in three years - I say well, in three years - of the 12 kilometres of fence there are still five kilometres left to change from the Melilla fence, and Mr Marlaska says that border control is a concern of the Government. It is a concern for the neighbours and neighbours of Melilla, it is a concern for our forces and security forces, that these days they suffered the violence of thousands of migrants who storm the fence, more than fifty agents wounded after being beaten with stones, forks and sticks. Our forces and security forces need more than words, they need means and reinforcements with more agents. So that they can defend our borders, so that they can defend us, so that they can defend our security, the first thing we have to do as public servants is defend them, and hence our proposals. The first, and in the light of recent events, must urgently address the expulsion file of all those who have entered our country in an irregular and violent manner, unlike what the Government does, yes, unlike what the Socialist Government does. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you know that of the 850 migrants who entered Melilla by assaulting the fence, beating our security forces and forces with sticks, the Government has not only not repatriated these irregular migrants, but has admitted 809 asylum applications, allowing these migrants mobility throughout Spain and Europe. In short, after beating our agents, the Government gives them a prize; instead of repatriating them to their countries, it processes their asylum application. This is embarrassing. We demand from the Group of the European People's Party the immediate resignation of Mr Marlaska and Mr Escrivá. [[Applauds]] Secondly, the increase in the staffing of State security forces and bodies in Ceuta and Melilla with two hundred more officers, both for the Civil Guard and for the National Police. The next proposal, of great importance, as our spokesman Cuca Gamarra has already announced, is to include Ceuta and Melilla in the Schengen area without any exceptionality, thus enabling the implementation of the European Pact on Migration and Asylum with Frontex's collaboration in controlling entry and exit as external borders. I repeat, this is an extremely important proposal. Fourthly, we advocate the adoption of a protocol of action for situations of enormous gravity that guarantee the effectiveness and safety of all agents. Fifthly, we advocate with this motion to promote a coordinated system of action with the Armed Forces. With regard to the Melilla fences, we obviously need to reinforce them immediately, as their vulnerability has been demonstrated. The seventh proposal we advocate is to draw up a specific plan in Ceuta and Melilla which will allow a rapid and effective response to Morocco's use of stability as a means of putting pressure on Spain. The next step is the launch of an interministerial commission - this is very important - to address the specific problems that carry Ceuta and Melilla because of the geostrategic position that these autonomous cities have. And in ninth and last place - and not least so - we must increase the policy of raising awareness within the European institutions of the situation in Ceuta and Melilla as the Union's external land borders, seeking greater support. In this regard, we need to promote in Europe an Africa plan for development cooperation with countries of origin and transit. I conclude, President. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike the Government, in the People's Party we continue to defend common sense also in migration policy, and hence our proposals for regular migration within the framework of the European Union, respecting our laws and borders, supporting, as it could not otherwise be, our forces and security forces in the face of the policy of paper for all of this Government, which is inappropriate for a great country like Spain, which does not deserve to be headed by the Ministries of Migration and the Interior, nor Mr Escriva or Mr Marlaska. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u136	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the VOX Group, Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. We came here to discuss a motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Group, an inquiry last week to the Minister of the Interior, recommending his action in the massive assaults of the previous week on the Melilla fence. I must say that this motion that you have tabled has proved to be deeply disconcerting to us. Firstly, you say that the PP rejects the so-called effect, that it rejects the open doors, that it rejects the massive regulations and that it rejects the ships of the NGOs. You, Rajoy's party, are the registrar of the property that he said he didn't believe in the borders; the party that regularizes immigrants with food bills; the party of massive regularizations before Zapatero -480 185 illegal immigrants -, and already with Rajoy, 360 000 illegal immigrants; the party of Feijóo, which has said that it wants to speed up access to nationality; the party, also of Feijóo, which offers in its day Galicia for the reception of immigrants arriving from the ship Aquarius and which offers collaboration with Doctors without Borders or SOS Mediterranean, NGOs that, as you all know, collaborate with the mafias of human trafficking. [[Applauds]] You also say that the People's Party rejects the dispersion of irregular immigrants throughout the national geography, and you reject it so much that Feijóo was also talking about welcoming all the menas who had arrived in Ceuta; so much so that Juanma Moreno spends two million euros on welcoming immigrants and asks to disperse all those who arrive in the Canary Islands throughout the national geography; so much so that the Junta de Castilla y León will open a menas centre in Salamanca, right next to an elderly residence. But you also say that in order to protect our borders we have to deploy Frontex, and this is what someone says that I don't know if he doesn't know what he's saying or wants to fool us, because Frontex is useless. Frontex hasn't expelled a single immigrant since he's been on the move. Frontex serves to continue sending files to Warsaw, if that's what you want to do, but of course that's not protecting our borders. Stop thinking that everything is going to work out for us in Brussels, because the reality is that we are alone and that we have to deploy our own resources. You also say that you have to do training exercises for our Armed Forces to collaborate with our state security forces and bodies. What this Minister of the Interior has to do is to allow our state security forces and bodies to use anti-disturbing material to protect a border, which is what is done in Greece and Poland. [[applause]] And what our Armed Forces have to do is not training maneuvers, what this Government has to do is deploy our Armed Forces in situations of tension on the southern border, because you all agree to send arms to defend Ukraine's sovereignty, but no one here agrees to defend Spanish sovereignty on the southern border. [[Applauds]] I'm going to stop at your star size. You propose to include Ceuta and Melilla in the Schengen area. Do you really think that's how they're gonna better protect the border? Do they really say that? A party that has ruled this country and that wants to protect a border proposes that Ceuta and Melilla be included in the Schengen area, that is, they want to remove border control more from those who jump the fence. Also, if you want, we lower the fence a little bit to make them jump more easily. [[Applauds]] What needs to be done with Ceuta and Melilla is to introduce them under NATO's umbrella for protection, to see if the international organizations in which Spain is going to defend our interests are really going to do so, because it happens what always happens, that Spain is abroad, that Spain is in international organizations and at the time of truth no one defends their interests. You are left with the perfect package of effect called, and the reality is that it suits me, because you and your spokespersons have repeatedly said that mass immigration is the way to combat ageing, it is the way to combat the demographic challenge. You have said so both in initiatives in the Senate and in your spokesmen, such as Mr Feijóo. And it suits me, because you are actually in the same package as all parties in this House, except one, which is the package, as good signatories to Agenda 2030, to combat the demographic decline of Europe with massive immigration, with all that it entails. But there's one thing I don't care about about your initiative, and it's that sometimes you say words as an assailant, as an invasion, as a collapse of social services, like immigration makes living together difficult; tell Mrs. Ayuso...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u138	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u139	It's over, Mr. President. And you know what it is? Do you know why you say these expressions? Because the voice of the streets, of the parks, of the neighborhoods, of Villaverde, of Vic, of Ejido, of Usera...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u140	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u141	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u142	But finish it at once, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u143	... of Nijar, Lorca, El Fraile tell them what common sense says: that our sovereignty must be protected. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u144	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. This motion raises a number of measures which call on the Government to act without hesitation to prevent attacks on borders in the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla. The initiative emphasizes, with absolute accuracy, the need for our State security forces and bodies to have more troops, more material resources and, in addition, to train the Armed Forces with specific training so that, if necessary, they can intervene in massive and violent avalanches such as those that took place this same month in Melilla, unprecedented both for the number of participants and for the aggressions perpetrated on our agents. Once again, attention should be drawn to the fact that it must be the opposition that raises not only the debate, but the solutions to an issue that should be a constant one in government policy, such as that of Ceuta and Melilla. The parties that are part of the blue bank, PSOE and Podemos, that had from the opposition a take and take against the Rajoy government on account of the concertinas, the policy of deterrence or the so-called hot returns, now cross hands before the worrying becoming that surrounds the life of our compatriots there and that today have more than just reasons to feel forgotten by the Executive President Pedro Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, the escalation of tension at the borders of our two Spanish cities in North Africa is not the result of chance. As pointed out in this parliamentary initiative, to the already serious problems for the protection of the fences which try to prevent jumps and avalanches at the border points of control of land access, are added other aspects that must be urgently addressed in order to resolve the consequences of uncontrolled migratory movements, the product of an intolerable trafficking of human beings perpetrated by mafias. Illegal entrances seriously hamper daily life in Ceuta and Melilla. There is a health collapse, there is an educational collapse and the overflow of the reception capacity of temporary stay centres is a constant. Two years have passed since Morocco unilaterally closed its land borders with Spain, it was said by the COVID-19 pandemic. A diplomatic blockade also persists, which is reflected in the absence of the Ambassador Ramarroqui, called for consultations after the Gali case; that case offered judicial developments earlier yesterday with the ratification of the status of investigator of the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs González Laya, moreover assigning to the Presidency of the Government the direction of such an operation. On the other hand, the sine die suspension of the high-level meeting between the two countries, initially scheduled for the end of 2020, is another worrying sign of the future of diplomatic relations between Spain and Morocco. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate held last week, the Minister of the Interior again gave evidence of his erratic and erroneous decisions regarding his powers to maintain order in our two cities in North Africa and to react agilely to the episodes that overflow our agents. The broad explanatory statement of this initiative accurately describes facts that are reiterated and that receive only partial answers to questions and faits accompli. The operative part of the motion, with eleven points to the ke, may perhaps add some contributions that have been raised through amendments, is a starting point for taking definitive measures to solve the serious problems facing our fellow citizens, Ceti and Melillense. What the Government has so far promoted are patches that, as such, end up bursting as soon as pressure occurs from the other side of the border. Of all the measures, I would like to stress that it is essential to maintain a constant call for attention in the Community institutions to the situation which is repeatedly taking place in both Ceuta and Melilla. This is not an exclusive problem of Spain, this is also a problem of the European Union, to which we have to explain that it is not worth doing as Don Tancredo. It is also crucial, from the perspective of the priorities to be noted on the front page of its road map and on the Government's agenda, that the proposal to create an inter-ministerial commission that provides diagnoses and, above all, implement urgent solutions to the disturbing difficulties facing our two Spanish cities in North Africa be adopted. I shall therefore vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u146	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u147	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you are bringing today a motion that speaks of irregular immigration and focuses on the fences of Ceuta and Melilla, but in this matter you start with three premises that are false or, if you want, wrong. If we talk about irregular migrants, 90% or more of those in Spain have not entered the southern border, have not entered the fence of Ceuta and Melilla. Do you know where they came in? By Barajas. They don't focus on where theoretically they should be. Secondly, if we talk about the southern border, a small minority of people who irregularly access the State do so by jumping the fence of Ceuta and Melilla. Thirdly, according to UNHCR, 80 per cent of people who jump that fence are potential asylum seekers. So we are not only talking about irregular migration, but we would also be talking about asylum and international protection, and you do not mention it. Moreover, you have tried to ridicule the fact that the Government has acceded to the asylum applications of several of these people. What's going on? That you don't recognize the rights of these people? Doesn't it recognize legality or international treaties? They don't care, they're over-expulsion. Curious. Who are the people who jump the fence of Ceuta and Melilla? They're the ones who don't have any other legal and safe way to do it. Why? After the Tarajal massacre in 2014 border posts were installed in Ceuta and Melilla and, do you know what happens? That all those who are sub-Saharans cannot access those border posts. It's impossible, materially impossible. So, what alternatives do they have? Or crossing with boats, which has a cost, or swimming or jumping the fence. It is true that the images we see are brutal and in many cases there is violence. It is true that there is violence on the part of some migrants, but we have also seen images of some police officers with disproportionate action and we have even seen police brutality, to which neither you nor the minister have said anything. That's something I should draw attention to. [[Mr. Ortiz Galván makes negative gestures]] You talk about legal, secure and orderly migration; the orderly has become a bit racist to you, but the legal and secure is fine. Do you accept that there are ways of accessing migration in consulates or embassies, whether for work reasons, as they point out, but also by family reunification or as asylum seekers? It's just that you can't do it right now. Do you accept that no one has to play life or jump a fence full of inverted feathers or knives to apply for asylum? Because, what happens - you have also forgotten - is that while the concertine is removed in the fence of Ceuta and Melilla, Morocco has installed a parallel fence that is only of concertines. This is the externalisation of borders that you are forgotten. They then propose only police and even military measures, when we are talking about a matter that is polyhedral. That it has a safety aspect? Obviously, all States control their borders, but this is primarily a humanitarian issue. I reminded you that 80% of these people are potential asylum seekers and you want to receive them with sticks and rubber balls, as you did in Tarajal. This is not the case: to increase the fence, to put more concertins, to use more anti-disturbing material or to send to the Legion. Do you believe that these measures will prevent people from crossing the State, in this case, across the southern border, sometimes to seek asylum and in other cases for economic reasons? This will not be avoided, it has already been tried; you have already tried it. At this time, when we are seeing terrible images of what is happening in Ukraine following the invasion of Russia, the Government has been pleased to take humanitarian measures with all refugees, with all those who have to flee that conflict situation. Sounds good to me, I think it's right. It would seem equally good to me, however, that all those who are in the same situation, regardless of their nationality, can also access these measures with the same speed and with the same means. Ladies and gentlemen, I end by asking for legal and secure avenues for all those who seek help, regardless of their nationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u148	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u149	Thank you very much, President. The phenomenon of migration, as has already been said, is a complex phenomenon and always has a connection with the search for minimum conditions of survival of people, either because of war or conflicts of a similar nature, or because of famines or ecological disasters, or because of persecutions for identity, ideological and political reasons, or because of a long series of calamities. This phenomenon, which is already complex, acquires particular nuances in the case of the southern border, not only because of the gulf in terms of wealth that separates Europe from Africa, a gulf between well-being and poverty, but also because of Moroccan irredentist policies in which the migratory phenomenon is sometimes used. The phenomenon of migration, which has to be addressed in a panoptical way, requires or demands many approaches with a balance between solidarity and responsibility; also from a perspective of the European Union's space; from cooperation with countries of transit and origin, both for the promotion of their development and for collaborating in the control of migratory flows; from the very sensitivity of the citizenry of the receiving realities of immigration; also from the right of any organized community to respect their norms and interests; from the fight against the mafias, which take advantage of the desperate situation of many people, without prejudice - as has been said - to the establishment of safe and regular routes, and, of course, from respect for international humanitarian treaties. For this reason, in the event of the initiative, we share what the Ministry of the Interior has outlined in relation to the main lines of action in which we must continue to pursue, such as the modernisation of the border perimeter and border crossings; cooperation with countries of origin and transit; strengthening the capacity of the legitimate use of force with the raising of awareness of this issue within the Union, and, as I have said before, with the proper protection of asylum seekers. In these basic lines, we believe that the delicate issue that we are dealing with must continue to be marked, in addition to a more strategic vision and less attached to particular and partisan interests, because it is this one, that of immigration, a phenomenon that goes beyond the scope of individual countries without prejudice to the fact that it can affect them at times in a singular way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u150	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u151	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, the truth is that it is appropriate not to mix things as you have done in this motion, because in the end, when things are mixed in very complex situations, it is very difficult to find solutions. When attempts are made to mix and, above all, to make the migration problem exclusively a police or security problem, the root of the issue is not being addressed well. It has already been said many times and, moreover, we have talked a lot in the last few weeks about migration and I think that from everyone is known the position of our group on the need to make reforms so that an orderly and legal migration can be carried out; a migration that has the courage to let the migrant know what the appropriate channels are and to avoid falling into the mafias that in the end encourage all this. I do not want to focus on the irregular migrations that we are seeing and that are mainly related to the weather and weather conditions that allow the vast majority of these irregular migrants to come to our shores on the continuous landings of pateras, as these cases The jumps to the Melilla fence represent a proportionally smaller number than the number of immigrants who access our shores. I therefore believe that what needs to be focused on is precisely the assaults on the fences. I understand that the interpellation to the Ministry of the Interior has not so much to do with the migratory phenomenon, but with the phenomenon that is happening in the fences of Ceuta and Melilla. I believe that what happened in Ceuta in May of last year or what happened in the Melilla fence in the first days of this year, the violence with which these groups of migrants come to jump the fence, how they are faced and the problems that that generates is what I understand is the object of the inquiry to the minister and, therefore, of his motion, and that is what I want to focus on on this issue. I believe that the situation of our forces and security forces to respond to these attacks on the fences and to protect the borders of Ceuta and Melilla is ineffective and, above all, inefficient because of the very small number of troops we have. But this is not from now on alone, gentlemen of the PP, but from before. I want to remind you that there have already been jumps - practically every year there are jumps to the fence - even with a lot of violence. They also happened with Mr Rajoy's government, because we went there to see what had happened and to talk to the civilian guards who were in the Melilla fence. Therefore, it is not a new phenomenon, for you it is not new. You did not put a solution and now the Socialist Party government is not putting it, and I think that is where we need to focus. What protection, how do we protect our men and women, our state security forces and bodies, from these attacks that are increasingly violent and increasingly organized? Because in the end, when you fight even for your own survival, it is reasonable to understand that violence can be exercised. I believe that our state security forces and bodies must be prepared for this. I therefore believe that solutions to this need to be sought. By the way, Mrs. De Meer, let me tell you not to find out anything. It is essential that Ceuta and Melilla are in the Schengen area, precisely because being in the Schengen area we will get them to be a European border, which they are not at the moment. And as a European border, we will, among other things, be able to stop applying visa exceptions to populations close to Ceuta and Melilla, which is one of the serious problems facing Ceuta and Melilla. Therefore, it is very important and, if you had understood it and had been concerned to talk to the people of Ceuta and Melilla and to listen to what the citizens there say, you would see that they say that what they want is to be in Schengen and that these visa exceptions are precisely removed. So we will be more able to control entry into our borders than we are now. I'm sorry, but he doesn't know anything. Without a doubt, we need more material and personal means, not just the two hundred who have been claiming; I think we need to do a good study of how many means are needed. Obviously, personal media will never be enough for the situation that occurs when a thousand people try to jump a fence and, therefore, we need to look for reinforcements. Here we must tell the Government that we do not understand how our Armed Forces are not used to repel these assaults and are practically sold on a continuous basis to civilian guards and national police. We do not believe that it makes any sense, and therefore what needs to be done is precisely to articulate protocols so that, in cases of absolute necessity and emergency like those we have seen these days, the Armed Forces come to the aid of their colleagues in the state security forces and bodies, which in the end is to the aid of the entire population because this security problem is not only of the security professionals, but also of the public security problem. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u152	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u153	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have two key issues in this motion: one is on migration and the other is on the political battle. The mix or mixture of both sincerely believe that it leads us to a fatal position; in the end one ends up asking for the construction of a wall and another one to pay. That is why I wanted to separate these two issues. On the one hand, on the issue of migration, it is clear that we share those criteria which state that immigration has to be based on rights and obligations, on the commitment to recruitment at source and on clear rules in all matters relating to the processing of residence and work permits and also in coordination with the European Union insofar as the reality of migration is that we have at European level to access the Schengen area. On the other hand, the truth is that we prefer this to leave the field of political battle to reach the field of consensus. It is too far-reaching to take advantage of any opportunity or weakness of the Government to turn it into political action. In addition, we need to emphasize a humanitarian approach - a few weeks ago we were talking here about safe humanitarian corridors - because in the end we are talking about people and therefore turning this into a political battle rather than a consensus issue we believe is not the best way to tackle this issue. We also believe that there is a lack of political perspective. When you hear these speeches that what is needed here is more repression and more beatings, you see that the Spanish State continues to apply these measures of police repression instead of facing the problems with dialogue, openness and a much broader look, and not just trying to contain something that, like many other things, cannot be contained with beatings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u154	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everybody. The truth is that we have a somewhat sad morning - I suppose it goes in line with the cloudy weather there is - with these two motions dedicated to the fences of Ceuta and Melilla. They deal with the same subject, some assaults, in a terrible and biased way. Our intervention here serves to position us both, because, although they are different, unfortunately in the background they are the same. In the explanatory statement presented to us by the People's Parliamentary Group, a legal, orderly, secure and labour-market-related immigration policy is needed, and also the fight against irregular immigration mafias and development agreements must be a priority. Of course, we can share this, but you say: There are no easy solutions or magic proposals that will eradicate the problems that obviously generate these movements of human beings. Exactly, there are no easy solutions, but neither do you propose any solution for this orderly, easy or difficult immigration. In the explanatory statement we are described what you describe as the worst nightmare - and I quote -: enormous violence, unusual violence and enormous tension faced by the forces and security forces by the massive assaults on the fence. Reports with similar expressions are those made by some forces and security forces in relation to 1 October, reports that have also been made in other cases, and are false, are false information. I have seen images of the events of those days in the fences and I have seen that enormous violence that he speaks of, yes, but on the part of the security forces and bodies with regard to migrants. The small amount of its contributions is limited to strengthening the external borders, not to eradicating the problems caused by migration. You propose to deal urgently with expulsion files, but will you do so after an individualized analysis of the cases or with collective expulsions, violating what the European Court of Human Rights says? They propose to strengthen the fences to avoid overflowing and provide them with new technical means and preventive control. Will this ensure that no more immigrants arrive? They also propose to increase the staffing of security forces and bodies and to train them. Is this training covering respect for human rights? And you say: That's why immigration is a paid field for ideological populisms that seek votes and don't give solutions. True, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, do not propose any solution either, do you, at least on this subject, practice an ideological populism? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u156	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u157	[[The honourable Member places a tablet on the rostrum with a sticker on the back, which reads: 'Out of VOX'.- Mr Rodríguez Almeida: President, there he puts 'Out of VOX'.- Rumors]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday it was four years since Mother Mbaye died in the streets of Lavapiés. Mother came to patera, Mother wanted to stop being maintained, Mother was a neighbor of Madrid for ten years, Mother tried to regularize her situation several times and never got it. Mother died four years ago in Lavapiés a victim of institutional racism and yesterday we paid tribute to her in Nelson Mandela Square. [[Applauds]] Undoubtedly, immigration is one of the great elements of debate in society, which is intensified by the images of rescues in the Mediterranean or the jump of the Melilla fence. It is then that opinions and statements of different nature are multiplied, some carried by fear and ignorance and others trying to spread false and alarmist messages, echoing some myths that are very interestingly repeated from reactionary sectors. The result of all this is that the ex-abrupts, the screams and the fallacys that, like the very thin rain, occupy more and more space in people and in society, in the face of the precise knowledge derived from the study, research and empirical analysis of a phenomenon as complex as multidimensional as migrations are. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u158	Mrs. Carvalho, please don't show the sticker you have on your iPad, if you don't mind. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas withdraws her tablet]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u159	On this motion of the People's Party, he invited all citizens to go further, to get well informed. Please, don't stay with the fallacy. I invite you, for example, to read the report Vulnerations of Rights on the Southern Frontier: Canary Islands and Melilla, of Iridia, but also the Annual Report of Amnesty International; the Guidelines of the European Court of Human Rights on the democratic limit of the use of violence by police bodies, drawn up by the lawyer Laia Serra Perelló; the Atlas of Inequalities, of Courrier Internacional; the 50 years of humanity, of Doctors without Borders; the report Stop rubber bullets, of Novact and Iridia; the Stories of Migration, of Unesco; the magazine Afkar/ideas on the Sahel; the proposals of civil society to the new European pact on migration and asylum, of Red Coce, Oxfam Intermón, Stop Mare Mortum, Save the Children, Doctors of the World, among many others; the economic, social and cultural rights of migrants in an irregular situation, of the United Nations; the Vulnerations of Human Rights in the Deportations, of many other European Institutes, of Novact and Iridia; the annual reports are also the House of the People's. [[The honourable Member has been showing each of the documents she has appointed.-Applause]] Also, citizens, I invite you to read, above all, paragraph 71 of the Universal Periodic Review to United Nations Spain, where concerns are expressed about the hot returns of immigrants detected on the border line of the territorial demarcation of Ceuta and Melilla, without providing sufficient guarantees to respect the principle of non-refoulement where appropriate. United Nations universal periodic report to Spain. But also, citizenship, you have to read article 4 of Protocol IV to the European Convention on Human Rights, which expressly prohibits hot returns. And, above all, the international protocols on the Melilla fence. Finally, and this is most important, talk to you, ladies and gentlemen of the citizenry, with your neighbours, with your migrant neighbours and empathize. To understand one of the main reasons that push people to migrate to Europe I recommend a very good book by a professor at the Universitat d'Alacant, Professor Carlos Gómez Gil, Debate and controversy in development cooperation. In Spain, when it comes to choosing between migration control and victim protection, the authorities are not always clear. So, in the face of hollow and misleading propaganda, data. This and not another is the debate. Let's focus, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u161	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, at least forty-four people, including women, girls and boys and newborns, drowned last Friday in the Atlantic Ocean at the height of the coastal city of Tarfaya, south of Morocco, when they were trying to reach the Canary Islands. On behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to express my condolences to the families of the deceased, and I would like to express my appreciation to the organizations that are helping and rescuing migrants who are trying to cross the southern border. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the PP had offered to welcome the Ukrainian refugees a few days before registering this motion, not to be surprised to say that with this new option the PP makes it clear that they believe that there are lives that deserve to be rescued and that they believe that there are others that do not deserve to be helped. For the PP solidarity is not the same for all, and with this motion you make it clear. Faced with this position, in which the PP merges with its ultra-right partner, the progressive forces of this House must be firm in our postulate and give priority to saving all lives, all lives without distinction. Ladies and gentlemen, no one should die crossing a border; however, there are already more than 10,000 people who have drowned in the Mediterranean Sea in the last decade. Little reason, ladies and gentlemen, to be proud: mare nostrum, mare mortum. And we must commit ourselves more firmly and more clearly to putting an end to this humanitarian crisis in southern Europe, and the crisis in Ukraine must function as a mirror in which to look at the tragedy and realize that all lives matter equally. There can be no further dissociation between political asylum and the migratory movements of those fleeing poverty, and even less so, as an alibi for avoiding the political responsibilities of European governments towards refugees from impoverished regions south of our border. We cannot close our eyes to the lives of those fleeing danger when they correspond to our southern neighbours. The responsibility of States that believe in the universality of human rights lies in addressing the multiple roots, the multiple causes, as has been said here, that are conditioning migratory flows; that is, we must combat not only the consequences of forced migration, but also its causes. In this sense, yes to the Marshall Plan for Africa, but not to the proposals to militarize the border and to the hot evictions that you point out in your motion. [[Applauds]] Without addressing the causes of forced migration, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no fence or wall stopping the flight from hunger. The motion brought by the PP to this House today points in the opposite direction to the humanitarian and humanist postulates that we defend the left forces in this Chamber. The PP is dedicated to criminalizing migrants and mimics his speech with the hate speech of VOX by using expressions that polarize the affectivity of the citizenry in a context of war, ladies and gentlemen. The PP manipulates political debate by using terms such as invasion or assault to refer to the mass exodus of people trying to cross the southern border and who have once again been instrumentalized on the basis of spurious geopolitical interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, migrants are neither assailants nor invaders; they are desperate people in search of help, and the invasion of Ukraine has clearly shown something obvious, and it is that the invasions are carried out with tanks and bombers, but they are not carried out with coffins or jumping fences. The PP's proposal, in my opinion, is not only immoral; it is also illegal. It contravenes Directive 2013/32 of the European Union, which devotes its Article 24 to applicants for international protection who need special procedural guarantees, and notes that Member States will ensure that adequate support is provided to them. When the PP calls for immediate returns at the border, it is forgetting the European legislation, which requires identification and interviews with persons at the border precisely to resolve whether the person concerned has been subjected to torture, rape or other serious forms of psychological, physical or sexual violence and, consequently, should offer the guarantees provided by the norm itself and these special procedural needs should be respected if they are thus made patent. I want to end a quote from Hannah Arendt of her refugee treaty, and she says: Discrimination is the great social weapon with which human lives can be destroyed without bloodshed. As it cannot be otherwise, we will vote against this motion for illegal, immoral and racist. [[A Member of Parliament: Come on now!-Rumors]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u162	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u163	Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are bringing us here today a motion with a seemingly conciliatory statement of reasons, but this seemingly constructive and positivist policy that shows us contrasts with the reality of your actions and claims; wolves dressed in lamb. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, don't fool us. It would seem, falsely, that clothes are torn, empathize with the situation of immigrants, with their drama, with their pain and hardship, or worry about our state security forces and bodies, but the truth of their actions is that they agree the opposite of what they claim. They kneel and twin with fascism, xenophobia, racism, machism and even extreme right-wing Nazism. [[Applauds]] In regions such as Castile and León, Murcia or Madrid, where the first demands of their government partners are the implementation of policies of discrimination and criminalization of migrants, you have said yes and the European People's Party has said no. With their pacts they embrace expressions like: in the circular there is a Jamaican with black teeth; today I have made public my Twitter profile, my last follower was a whore; multicultural terns, said a Nazi; blond and blue-eyed, yes; black and dark-eyed, no; minas, rapists, criminals... Gentlemen of the PP, I will give you a sketch of mathematics first: while you urgently demand that what you did not do urgently during your seven years of inoperation in immigration policy and border protection, in just three years, with a pandemic, a volcano, floods, drought and a military invasion of the real ones, an illegal military invasion carried out by the close friend of VOX, Putin - those of the far right that you embrace - while all this was taking place, in addition to dealing with all this, this Government, in terms of security, placed as one of its priorities the protection of our physical environment, the control of borders and the regulation of migratory flows through the definition of orderly, regular and safe routes. More than 20 authorities of this Government have held thirty bilateral meetings to, inter alia, ensure the safe and urgent return of migrants to their countries of origin, and you four in seven years. Maths first. Of course, the current situation obliges us to strengthen migration policy as a State policy, strengthening its strategic vision. That is why this Government has been betting on a set of plans, among others, the Africa Plan. It is a robust plan that has all the synergies and resources of Spanish society, which allows us to work with the countries of origin and transit of migrants so that, among other things, we can facilitate these orderly, regular and safe routes of migration, allowing our forces and security forces of the State to cooperate and police cooperation in the fight against organized crime that take advantage of human need. Only during the first year of Pedro Sánchez's government did irregular immigration fall by 49.4%, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, irregular arrivals to Melilla in 2021 fell by 23.5% by sea and 23.3% by land. [[Mr. Ortiz Galván makes negative gestures]] And as far as 2022 goes, we're at 63% less. Maths first. And this requires loyalty, loyalty with Spain and with Europe, and not as the extreme right does, that loyalty of patriotism from which you fill your mouth here and who vomit in Europe. They take advantage of any situation, any drama and even now war to attack the Government of Spain and the interests of the Spanish. This Government is committed to an adequate provision of personal and material means to protect our State security forces and bodies. Look at the sketch, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Maths first. In 2011, with a socialist government, there was the largest point of coverage of members of the state security forces and bodies, 155,000 men and women in our ranks; seven years later, with you, those who care about our state security forces and bodies, 142,000 troops, 13,000 fewer, and say they are concerned. Maths first. With the government of Pedro Sánchez, more than 10,000 net posts have been recovered between men and women who protect our borders, with replacement rates of up to 125 per cent. Do you know how much the PP replacement rates were? 0% and they didn't even get to that. With the government of Pedro Sánchez, staffing coverage in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla ranges from 89 % to 96 %. With the People's Party government, 70%. With the government of Pedro Sánchez a plan of 800 million euros has been approved; with you there was no plan. While the government of Pedro Sánchez has approved a plan to modernize and improve the perimeter fence in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla to create an intelligent border, do you know how much has been invested? 5 + 5 + 5 + 5 + 5 million euros. Do you know how much he invested with you? First-rate mathematics: 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 + EUR 0 million. [[Applauds]] That is your protection, that is your concern, gentlemen of the People's Party. Stop embracing fascism, Nazism and xenophobia; embrace a little bit of humanity. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u164	Thank you so much. Mr Ortiz Galván, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u165	The proposal shall be voted on as submitted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u166	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect the Spanish borders in Ceuta and Melilla. [[File number 173/000132]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u167	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect the Spanish borders in Ceuta and Melilla. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Ortega-Smith Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Don't worry, today I didn't bring the iron bar and the chain with which the emigrants beat the police; no need. [[Rumors]] All I had to do was teach them the fork so that all of you would cry out: "Wow a weapon that has brought the VOX one!" [[Applauds]] Preliminary question, Mr President. Putin's tyrant is applauded and supported by the Puebla Group, to which several ministers of this Government and a Secretary of State belong. [[Applauds]] Nothing more to add. This motion, as a result of the urgent inquiry we presented last week, is a further consequence - not the cause - of the serious situation in Spain and Europe. It is not necessary for us to retell the ten lies that we had to point out from this rostrum last week, at least I will announce them so that they have no doubt. One, Ceuta and Melilla are not Morocco, they have never been and never will be. [[Applauds]] Two, refugees are not peaceful refugees, they are violent, assailant young people from our borders. Three, Morocco does not help border control; Morocco collaborates with these jumps; Morocco blackmails in exchange for money to the Government of Spain; Morocco causes an invasion by substitution in the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla and in the Canary Islands. Four, the fence is not safe. As has already been said here today, the minister has been putting the appropriate means - both in the fence itself, with the so-called inverted combs or, as proposed by this group, raising the fence to the necessary two meters - and now hurry and run tells us that in three months he will solve it. Five, the agents of the state security forces and bodies, the National Police, the Civil Guard, the local police of Ceuta and Melilla, do not have the appropriate means, and when they have them - like the anti-disturbing means - they are not allowed to use them. Six, pseudo-NGOs are not humanitarian NGOs, they are part of the plot of the human trafficking mafias, who use human tragedy as a business. Seven, the Armed Forces can play a very important and very necessary role in the control of our borders, they are trained and have the means for mass control, you just have to give them the order. Eight, NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty does not protect the borders of Europe, the borders of Spain in Ceuta and Melilla, because they are squares that are not covered - as requested by this group - by Article 6, and as my colleague Rocío de Meer reminded the People's Party, the solution is not to open the borders with the inclusion of Ceuta and Melilla in the Schengen agreement, but in Article 6 of the North Atlantic Treaty. [[Applauds]] Nine, it is not true that the media inform about what is happening in our cities of Ceuta and Melilla, but manipulate that information, always demonizing the agents, criminalizing them and making it seem like those who assault do it with roses and flowers, rather than with forks and iron bars. And finally, illegal immigration is not good, illegal immigration causes labor, saturation of public services; the other is good, legal immigration. The amendments of the People's Party and the Citizens' Party to our motion are clearly rejected. The People's Party turns its absurd position into a contradiction to the same motion we heard a few minutes ago. It tells us in its amendment that we have to withdraw the paragraph in which we say that there must be collaboration, involvement of the Armed Forces in border control, and they have just said in the previous motion that what is needed is coordination with the Armed Forces. Agree among the different sectors of your party. [[Applauds]] Of course the participation of the Armed Forces is necessary! Of course we will not accept that amendment! And to Citizens, what am I going to say? Smoke. The only thing that is correct is what he repeats in his motion and, the rest, incongruity. Here what we are talking about, and that is the important thing, is respect for national sovereignty and security, that which is lacking in Europe, that sovereignty and that respect for the security of the borders that we are demanding for the Ukrainian people for the terrible genocidal invasion of the tyrant communist dictator of Putin. [[Applauds]] For that freedom for the Ukrainian people, that sovereignty and that respect for the borders that the ministers and government partners do not want to respect by supporting Putin, from this group we say that we want a Europe with secure borders, that we want a Europe where the sovereignty of nations is respected. And to all the globalist progress of the extreme left, of the left, and of the cowardly right that buys the globalist discourse, we tell you that Europe will only survive if it has strong nations that defend themselves from permanent threats. [[Applauds]] And security is also talking today about security in the streets, internal security in our nations. That's why we say: No to the youth gangs that are causing violence on our streets, not to the menas that are causing violence on our streets, and not to the illegal, illegal and violent immigrants who have assaulted our borders and who are causing insecurity on our streets. And to talk about security, of course, is also to talk about energy security, which is why this Saturday thousands of Spaniards, millions of Spaniards are going to concentrate before all the municipalities. We want energy security, energy sovereignty so we don't depend on any outside satraps that can cut our electricity, gas or oil. And we want food security, so that our farmers and farmers can feed Spain and we don't have the risk that foreign products will ruin them or that foreign political decisions will close our borders. And, finally, we want legal certainty, so that there are no coupsmen who give coups d'état and governments who indulgate that, security and sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen, is what it is, security at our borders... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u169	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u170	... and national sovereignty up to the last centimeter of the national territory and up to the last nation of Europe. Thank you, Mr. President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u171	Mr Gutiérrez Vivas spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to say to the ladies and gentlemen of VOX and to Mr Ortega - without shouting, because it is not necessary - that in every proposal you bring to this House you mix everything up without any meaning or cause and that repeating it continuously no longer serves anything. You like to persevere in this mistake and I think I start to understand and know why. Because it is no small matter to understand the cause of the propositions that each of the groups present here bring to the plenary or the committees. Plato already said: Everything that is born necessarily comes from a cause, for without cause nothing can have origin. So, what's your cause? What is the cause why you always mix everything up? Well, as we are already getting to know each other, I dare to think that you defend that your cause is the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation and, in today's case, also the Spanishness of Ceuta and Melilla. They fill their propository texts with words such as nation, indissoluble, inviolability, homeland or threat, as if there was no tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. They believe that, as much as I repeat them, the rest of the parliamentary groups went to give you, in an exclusive way, the defense of concepts that are of all, Mr Ortega; concepts that are contained in our Constitution and that - oh, surprise! - are not in danger, as all citizens know perfectly well. However, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the real cause of your texts is another very different and indeed terrible one. Its objective is fear, to generate fear in Spanish society, fear of the different - as I have already told you other times - but also fear of the one who thinks differently from you, fear of the one who does not share your ideas, fear of those who profess other beliefs other than yours. Let's see if you find out at once, there is no worse patriot than the one who tries to inoculate fear among his neighbours, among his citizens, among the Spaniards, Mr Ortega. You are very bad patriots if you only know how to resort to fear to explain your positions, especially because you are always based on lies. Today they try to inoculate fear again on the basis of another lie, which is the protection of the Atlantic Alliance to the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, and they ask for an express mention in Article 6 of the Washington Treaty for these purposes, because, if not, they say, they would not be included in the mutual protection and collective defence of the treaty. Another lie. Moreover, you know perfectly well, you know that NATO's protection coverage cannot be contemplated exclusively from the literality of Article 6; you know perfectly well that since 1949, when the treaty was signed, NATO has evolved to adapt to every new strategic reality, in accordance with the political will of Member States; you know that the adoption in 2010 of the Alliance's current strategic concept has entailed a redefinition of the concept of collective defence, which from that point on contemplates any threat of aggression, such as the emerging security challenges for any ally or the Alliance as a whole. Ceuta has been Spanish since 1850 and Melilla since 1497. Both, in their statutes of autonomy, are defined as an integral part of the Spanish nation and is thus also reflected in our Constitution. Do you really believe that there are doubts about that within the Atlantic Alliance? I suppose NATO must have the same doubts about Ceuta and Melilla as it does about the State of Hawaii, which is not specifically mentioned in Article 6 following its accession to the Union in 1959 and which, as we all know, is not precisely in the North Atlantic, Mr Ortega. Article 4 when it speaks of the threat to the territorial integrity of any party in a Member State, or Article 6 itself when it speaks of forces, ships or aircraft in the Mediterranean Sea or in the North Atlantic region, north of the Tropic of Cancer, are palm examples that Ceuta and Melilla are included, although no explicit mention is made of both. But in case there is any doubt, I suggest you review the 2010 Lisbon strategic concept, which literally states - and I open quotes -: NATO will deter and defend itself against any threat of aggression and against emerging security challenges where they threaten the fundamental security of an ally or of the Alliance as a whole. Does it seem to you that there is little defense? It is difficult, after all this, to continue to doubt, as you do, the implications of NATO in the face of a threat to these cities, but as you are foolish, review the conclusions of the NATO summit in Wales in 2014, Warsaw in 2016, Brussels in 2018, or the NATO leaders' meeting in London in 2019. In all, it is repeated that a threat to the security of any territory or population would trigger the invocation of collective defence. But, ladies and gentlemen, all this you know very well, you have in your ranks prestigious lawyers and professionals in these matters, professionals who have sent troops within international missions, professionals with years of management in the Ministry of Defence, capable people, who know perfectly well the documents I have just mentioned to you and that at the moment I am sure that they will be blushed by their performance. No, you are in this debate not because you have doubts, but what you claim is that the citizens of Ceuta and Melilla and many others of the rest of our nation are afraid. They want you to believe that neither the state nor our European partners nor NATO are going to stand up for you, they want to continue with that slogan - boring by repeated - that only you are to stand up for them. Fortunately for the Spaniards, there is a rule of law, international legislation, agreements and allies to ensure the fate of the citizens of Ceuta and Melilla. Reject this strategy of fear, which is neither patriotic nor Spanish nor reasonable. Think that whoever sows winds, picks up storms, Your Honor. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u173	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Tarno Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u174	President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as my colleague, Mr Ortiz, has said earlier, I would like to express our absolute rejection of illegal immigration and the mafias who profit from it, as well as the need to be strict in the expulsion of people who have entered Spain illegally and violently. We must avoid the so-called effect. We share with the proposer the need to strengthen the borders of Ceuta and Melilla, the increase of the police and the Civil Guard, the support of the Government to its work, the provision of more technology, more means, in short, to make our borders in Ceuta and Melilla safer and more efficient. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an enormously complex problem that does not have a single solution, a single way of solving it. Unfortunately, the shielding of our border is not the only solution to the problem. As we put forward in our motion, and as has been demonstrated throughout our history, there is a need for original work, cooperation and support for development; institutional strengthening of African States is essential, as well as support for Governments in the Sahel, as we have been and have to continue to do. We cannot forget that more than 12 billion people live in Africa, mostly in poverty. During these days we are debating that the invasion of Ukraine is entailing enormous famines in our country. In Africa, on the other hand, what is going to be famine is because more than a third of the wheat consumed in Africa comes from Ukraine, and those famines are going to bring complex migratory movements for which we have to be prepared, more prepared than ever. Ladies and gentlemen, in this matter, as in others, we disagree with you, primarily in the role you place on the Kingdom of Morocco. Morocco is an essential ally in ending illegal immigration. Morocco is a partner with which we must work together to end illegal immigration. We have seen this week as in Nador more than 900 sub-Saharans have been expelled who were part of that group that has assaulted and that intended to continue to assault the Melilla fence illegally, assaults that we have to stop with all our forces. That is why I said before that the police and the Civil Guard must be given more strength, they must be given better means and political support. These measures are more effective and necessary than your proposal for a permanent deployment of our Armed Forces. We say that there has to be collaboration between the Armed Forces and the State security forces and bodies, which can at some point collaborate, but it is clear that not permanently because it is not effective or timely. The role of our Armed Forces is very clear. Article 8 of the Constitution is clear and striking. That's why I think we need to be extremely calm, Mr. Smith. In this totum revolution that you raise in this motion, you are bound by the support of the Atlantic Alliance for an alleged attack on Ceuta and Melilla. Absolutely quiet, Mr. Smith. Article 4 states that when the territorial integrity, political independence or security of any of the parties are threatened, member countries may be consulted as to whether action should be taken. NATO, which has been adapting since its foundation to difficult situations, with its political pragmatism approved in the Lisbon Strategic Concept, which have endorsed Cardiff, Warsaw, London and Brussels, the following: NATO will deter and defend itself against the threat of aggression and against the emerging risks wherever they question security, whether from the allies individually or from the Alliance as a whole. Sure and concise! We have to be a reliable partner in the Alliance, meet our budgetary commitments, reach that famous 2%, and you will see that if we do, our allies will. Stop being scared. NATO will be with Spain. To end illegal immigration, we need more means for our state security forces and bodies, more support, more work in origin, but we also need less demagogy and less talk of the fear posed by some others. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u175	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. The worrying evolution around the two autonomous Spanish cities on the African continent, Ceuta and Melilla, makes this a recurring issue at the request of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, no Spanish can be alien to the permanent and serious threats that our compatriots are facing in both cities. The chain of events, which has resulted in an escalation of tension reflected in repeated episodes of border violations and massive illegal entry, often violent, has been devastating. Hence the mafias operate to their wide because of the combination of the effect called by Pedro Sánchez on account of the episode of the ship Aquarius, with its landing in the port of Valencia transmitted prime time, and of the effect Grande-Marlaska, minister unable to face and solve with guarantees the emergencies on the southern border of Spain and Europe. This motion proposes more and better protection measures, and it does so with a specific declaration in defence of national unity, of which Ceuta and Melilla are irrefutable territories and which, in the face of repeated and serious episodes of violation of our borders, need more attention, better material means and more human resources, as well as measures of a political and diplomatic nature so that the Community institutions do not disagree with their position on the Spanish and, therefore, European status of our two cities. It is also appropriate to reiterate to organizations of which Spain is a member, in the case of NATO, the need for the protection of the southern border of Europe, including both the two cities and our sovereign squares on the other side of the Mediterranean, that is, the Velez de La Gomera and Alhucemas pawns, and the Chafarina Islands archipelago. In addition, this initiative calls for the deployment of our Armed Forces to mitigate the unbearable migratory pressure, which is undoubtedly part of a Moroccan strategy to develop reasons for historic revisionism and to intensify and continue its unfounded purposes of annexing the two cities and the rest of the Spanish territories in North Africa. The most recent, massive and intolerable violent assaults on the border are other signs of alarm for Ceuta and Melilla, that is, and I stress it, for Spain. I shall therefore vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u177	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is, it's obvious. We have all seen the images in Ceuta and Melilla these past few days and months, and who can solve this issue is the Government of Spain, which has the capacity and the competence to do so. That is the first question to be asked, what the Spanish Government wants to do with this situation. Obviously, I do not expect to be answered in the Chamber today because, as we know, the Government does not go to Congress because it does not seem that it deserves sufficient respect for the seat of national sovereignty. It is quite true that, since they do not come, they could take advantage of these moments of general crisis in Spain to cut down a few blue seats, which will one day fall down the stairs of how tight they are. That being said, we believe that the same thing always happens in this debate. Here there are groups that take advantage to question clearly the work done by the Police and the Civil Guard in our country, in Ceuta and Melilla, but in the whole of Spain in general. It must be said - we have said it many times - that the Civil Guard and the National Police are people who at one time decided to make an opposition, who approved an opposition, who are public workers like all others who work in the Public Service, whose function is to ensure that all citizens, as set out in the Constitution, meet requirements as professionals, and that is what they do. Therefore, the Civil Guard and the National Police, as well as all the workers of the public administrations, must be supported, they must be equipped with means, they must be told how they have to do their job, and of course they cannot be questioned at all times their work, the first minister, who leaves them thrown away whenever he can. It cannot be that a minister, every time the work of these professionals was vilified here, is not present and when he has the opportunity to speak he never defends them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u179	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u180	Thank you very much, President. I will briefly address the issue because we have already dealt with it in the previous point. However, I must point out that we cannot support initiatives by the proposing parliamentary group concerning irregular migration on economic grounds on the southern border as long as it continues to refer to it or to associate it with concepts such as invading aggression, defence of borders, siege, young people of organized military age, hybrid warfare tactics by the southern neighbours, invasion by replacement of the indigenous population, threat to territorial integrity, humanitarian NGOs described as human trafficking mafias, social media described as manipulators and distorters of the problem of immigration, accusations that Africa is being called upon to assault borders, link immigration to insecurity and crime, refer to irregular immigration as illegal immigration, generating in the collective imagination an association of immigration and crime, refer to undocumented migrants as flocks, as if they were animals, and to neighbourhoods where they live as jungles or generate xenophobic propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen, to generate fear and hatred, to dehumanize people who are only looking for a better future, who are people in an irregular, non-illegal situation, who live real dramas, to associate them with crime by obviating the data of the Ministry of the Interior that deny it, to use a bellicose tone, to demonise vulnerable people, to speak of invasion when irregular immigration means - the minister has already said - 0.0021% of the total number of entries into the state, to confuse the effect called with humanitarian behaviors, in short, to lie to the citizen, to distort the data, to generate fear and hatred are policies that we do not share, and that is why we will not support this motion of the VOX Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u181	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Foundation for Cause and the #A movement are leading the Essentials campaign, which seeks to collect 500,000 signatures to bring them to this house and request the regularization of migrants. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, the enormous plurality of this popular legislative initiative, the enormous plurality of accessions. It has the support of large social organizations, a large number of migrant organizations, foundations, development cooperation NGOs, including religious congregations, and is that they have acceded from the Episcopal Conference to the 'advances' of Andalusia, but the most important of this ILP is that self-organized migrant and racialized people are part of the driving force behind this popular legislative initiative, which is the #Regularization Ya movement. Irregularity is a powerful factor of vulnerability and a determinant of the most basic rights of all people, prevents adequate access to justice for victims, limits the right to health and education, targets the possibilities of living in poverty and leaves the worker very unprotected from the risk of exploitation. In the case of almost 125,000 boys and girls, most of them very young - less than ten years old - without papers, living here in the Spanish State, the consequences can be traumatic and extend throughout the life of these boys and girls. Irregularity is fear, ladies and gentlemen, it's stigma, it's defencelessness. The perpetuation of large bags of irregular immigration constitutes for all practical purposes a modern form of segregation, and this modern form of segregation weakens the moral roots of our society and offends even, and much offends, the foundations of a rule of law. This should never be normalized, ever. In the face of reactionary noises, in the face of hate speech, it is very important to echo the accurate knowledge derived from the study, from research, from the empirical analysis of a phenomenon as complex and multidimensional as migrations are - I say again -. That is why the Five Good Reasons Report for approving an extraordinary regularisation of undocumented migrants, of the Foundation porCausa, which have made public a couple of days ago, explains the current picture of irregular migration in Spain. [[shows the report]] I've separated ten points, see if I have time. Europe has made 43 regularisations in 17 countries since 1996. Regularisation in 2005 was a success for several reasons, according to the Council of Europe: it emerged from the consensus of the social forces, there was a real demand for regularisation by all stakeholders and it responded to the needs of society and the labour market. Spain will need 700,000 more workers in the construction sector to deal with Next Generation projects. If we talk about the financing of pensions, less than 1% of irregular immigration is over sixty-five years old, and in the case of the Spaniards this age group represents almost 20% - less than 1% compared to more than 20%-. They are essential workers in this country, they are essential jobs and regularisation would mean a benefit of at least EUR 950 million per year for public coffers. The guarantee of universal access to health care was withdrawn for a period of six years - we have already remembered - and the death of undocumented migrants increased by 15%. For each euro spent on the protection of the most vulnerable regularised population through minimum living income, the State would receive 2.2 euros in the form of taxes and social contributions. The PP and PSOE governments have made frequent regularizations in this country. By the way, the PP wins the PSOE: the PP regularizes five times and the PSOE regularizes four times. Where is this from the most progressive government in history? Please, five to four.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u183	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u184	The corporal. It is inevitable to regularize all these people, this half a million people. It will have to be done, the doubt is whether the PSOE will do so in a progressive coalition or who rules in the next legislature. Regularization, already, because migrating is not a crime. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u185	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Gentlemen of VOX, you, once again, come here to release your racism. The world is shocked by a war provoked by the invasion of Ukraine by criminal Putin, friend, by the way, of the European far right, of Orbán, Le Pen oSalvini; ultimately, of his friends European partners. Now you deny it and get very angry, but you will remember that song from Objective Burma, which said: my friends' friends are my friends, right? Well, that's it. As I say to you, now, rather than being concerned about the invasion of Ukraine, about resolving the conflict, about hosting refugees, they come here once again to release 'putates': racism, classism, ultranationalism, xenophobia, lies, misinformation, etc. Immigration is not an invasion, it's almost always a drama. The drama is that there are people who have to leave their countries of origin, go to other countries where they don't know anyone and meet people like you on top; that is hard and dramatic. [[Applauds]] It is a journey - which you more or less paint as a party - of thousands of kilometers, where women are raped, men tortured and arrested, and suffer until they can reach the coast and ride in a coffin or on a patera. No mother likes to have to climb on a foot with her newborn baby knowing that they have a high probability of drowning - she and her child - and at the bottom of the sea; by the way, a few days ago 44 people drowned. You have brought no measures here to tackle this issue in an integral way, because this drama is solved with policies of aid and cooperation to the countries of origin, so that people do not have to emigrate and that those countries develop and are not the storehouse of the developed world. It's no use attacking the symptoms if we don't tackle the source of the problem. You solve everything with more fences, with higher fences and with many more cops. And in Barajas, what do we do? Shall we also put fences? Because they have already told you here the insignificant percentage of people who arrive through Ceuta and Melilla in the phenomenon of immigration. No matter how high the fence is and how many cops there are, they won't stop anyone when they have to feed their children. My last destination as a civilian guard was on the Chadian coast, so I have experienced the drama of immigration in the first person. I mean, I've lived it, I was there with my fellow police officers, civilian guards and migrants. Of course, I know the excellent day-to-day work that police and civilian guards do, because I was there. And by the way, the lack of means comes from the dismantling of the governments of the People's Party. I did patrols with vehicles with 400,000 kilometers, you don't have to tell me, I know that; that's turning with this government. [[Applauds]] And look, where you see crime - herds -, I saw, looking into those people's eyes, desperate people fighting for a more dignified life. Do you think anyone would want to throw themselves into that suffering if they didn't leave behind a worse hell? No one emigrates for pleasure, whim, pleasure, or delinquency. Those who come here as a patera, those who come here in that situation flee from helplessness, the same as the Ukrainian refugees do today. The phenomenon of immigration is generated mainly by war, poverty, climate crisis and inequality. We must be serious about this and we must make proposals for agreements with countries of origin, in training, development, etc. and so on. We must go with clear, concrete proposals and with a little more heart, humanity, and also putting ourselves on the skin of the people who come. I tell you, I'm a civilian guard in special services and I've had to save people from the beach, practically drowning. You come here with a language, relating migration to herds, to crime, to crime and that is deceivable, it is of having no heart, of populism and it is what should never be done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr López Cano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u188	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, let's be clear. It gives you exactly the same as what happened there in Melilla are exceptional events. It gives them exactly the same and ignores the fact that irregular immigration data is only 0.002%. They're exactly the same as the crime rate's going down. It makes them exactly the same that on the southern border there are today more and better means than ever. You are the only ones who are pursuing the incident on the southern border to build your discourse on the criminalization of immigrants, which is based only on your xenophobic and racist prejudices. [[Applauds]] You always obviate the reality of the data and talk about immigrant invasion. Invasion? Don't you guys at least watch TV to know what an invasion means? An investment is what Putin does in Ukraine, with a war, with thousands of deaths, with millions of refugees; that is an invasion. Do not channel the terms into a historical moment like this, do not pervert reality to generate fear and hatred through lying. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you what. The closest thing in Spain to Putin is VOX. [[Mr Ortega Smith-Molina pointed out to the groups of the House located in the left and central part of the Chamber.]] Yes, because VOX, like Putin, Le Pen, Salvini, Bolsonaro, is trying to insert into our society a dangerous national populist discourse - yes - that, denying reason, appeals to the viscera and the lowest passions with war expressions, so you speak of invasion - yes -, gradually inoculating that totalitarian ultraconservatism, promoting hatred abroad, that's what you do. Where do you want to take us with that speech, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, to the social fracture, to the fracture of coexistence? It's going to be no, because you know that the vast majority of the Spanish people are far more sensible than you are. [[Applauds]] His speeches and ideas are a turning back to the darkest times of the past. I confess that sometimes they want to propose to the Presidency of this House that instead of English they give you history lessons so that you remember that those speeches of treating as enemies all those who think differently than you never brought anything good anywhere. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it is worrying that you have decided to rule with them instead of confronting that speech. You have decided to be on the wrong side of history, you have decided to unite your destiny with that speech. It is a historic mistake and I do not tell you, your fellow Members of the European People's Party tell you. [[Applauds]] Look, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in case you don't know, Melilla and Ceuta are the frontier of the two most unequal worlds that exist: Europe and Africa. Beyond the other side of the fence there is hunger, wars, despair, extreme need to find a better future. That requires sensitivity and political height and yes, also border control, as this government does with more and better means than ever before, and that is what the progressive government of Pedro Sánchez does. That doesn't mean we can't have sporadic incidents at times. As much as possible, there will always be people who, driven by despair, do everything possible to enter our country. In that case, it will have to be our State security forces and bodies that try to avoid it with all possible means, as is already done. Or do you think that wars, drought, hunger and the phenomenon of migration will end with you? Please, don't insult the intelligence of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. We already know how populist national discourse ends, we are already seeing it. The problem of the southern border, of course, does not end with populist national discourses or militarizing the southern border or turning Morocco into an enemy. No, that's what Putin and a viscera policy would do. What needs to be done is what the Government of our country does, a government of reason that understands that complex problems require complex solutions and not hate speech, even if that is difficult for you to understand. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u189	Mr Ortega Smith, you accept either of the two amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u190	As I have already said in the speech, neither. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-16-CD220316.u191	All right, thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was one and forty minutes in the afternoon.
