ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u2	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, it has been too long since the problems of the Spaniards have ceased to be their problems. Before Putin invaded Ukraine, inflation was already above 7% and the prices of light, gas and fuel were one record after another. Today the self-employed pay more contributions and you are proposing to reduce their benefits. Families see how the shopping basket is emptyer and more expensive. Farmers find it more difficult to produce and get less for their products. Given the lack of solutions on the part of your Government, what are the prospects for saving this critical situation? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I believe that, if we see the evolution of the price of gas and, therefore, of energy over the past year, we can see that Putin had been preparing for war in Ukraine for more than a few months. [[Protests]] This is so, ladies and gentlemen. I know it's all Sanchez's fault for you, but it is, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] In any case, it is clear that this war will have to get the best out of ourselves and I also ask the People's Parliamentary Group: let's get the best out of ourselves. Spain where is it, ladies and gentlemen? First, it is building that necessary unity in Europe, in NATO and also in the United Nations, with that vote in the United Nations General Assembly which demonstrated that Putin is alone and that the international community is more united than ever with Ukraine. Secondly, working from a European point of view on the economic response and also on defending our industry so that neither our companies nor our citizens nor our industries are hostage to that energy blackmail to which Putin is subjecting - or trying to subject, to be more precise - Europe. And finally, as I had occasion last week before your ladies and gentlemen, I outlined what represents a national plan to respond to the economic consequences of the war, and I also pointed out two important characteristics: first, that it was going to be an open plan - I am waiting for your proposals, Your Honor - and also a dynamic plan, because we want to know exactly what dimension and impact this war is going to have on the Spanish economy and on the European economy. In any case, I think it is important to tell the truth to the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, not to try to confuse the citizens. Inflation, energy prices are Putin's sole responsibility and responsibility for his illegal war. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it's true, it's true.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u6	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the unity of all the parliamentary groups in the response we have to give as Spain precisely to this illegal, unjust and unjustifiable war. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u7	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u8	Mr. Sánchez, he demands from us what you deny your own partners. But let's go to the question: What are your prospects for the industry, which is already engaged in having to stop production by rising light and gas prices? What are the prospects for rising fuel prices? Today 50% of the deposit of any vehicle is taxed. Are you going to lower taxes or are you still obsessed with collecting? We're asking you to put them down. Useful policy, Mr. Sanchez. The new macroeconomic scenario for Ukraine's invasion does not excuse it from past mistakes. What is required of you are extraordinary measures, which you do not take. We've met him. You're the president of the thousand alibis. First you used the pandemic and today we are clear that you are willing to use the war. The time has come for it to change its mind, as it did with the sending of weapons to the Ukrainian population. I encourage you to continue with the rectification. This is your way. The Spanish do not deserve you to keep as ministers those who support Putin, those who say that the Socialist Party and the People's Party are the parties of war, those who want to leave the Ukrainian patriots at the stand, those who destabilise Spain. We have the worst government at the worst possible time. [[Rumors]] Their credibility is on the ground because of their electoral calculations and polarization.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u10	Think, yes, about us to strengthen Spain with state policies, but make decisions and stop looking for excuses. And, Mr. Sánchez, you are already ousting from your government to the United We can. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. What I needed to hear is that I'm using the war. What for, Mrs. Gamarra? What am I using war for? [[Rumors]] What have I used the pandemic for, Your Honor? [[Applauds]] A little respect, a respect, Your Honor, for the Government of Spain, which is facing a pandemic first and now a war, precisely without the support of the main opposition party, as always. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES YOUR GOVERNMENT intend to withdraw [[EAJ-PNV]] THE VELO TO THE DOCUMENTATION QUALIFIED AS SECRET IN RELATION TO THE CASE OF ZABALZA, AFTER YOU HAVE BEEN RECOGNIZED AS VICTIME OF POLITICAL VIOLENCE BY THE VASCO GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/000814]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u13	Question by Mr Esteban Bravo Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u14	Good morning, Mr. President. Does your Government intend to remove the veil from classified secret documentation in the Mikel Zabalza case after being recognized by the Basque Government as a victim of violence?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban. I am not going to go into assessing the Commission's opinions on applications for recognition of victims of police abuse by the Basque Government, but I can assure you that in a State governed by law As is the rule of law in Spain, if it owes such recognition, there must be some consequence on the part of the judicial authorities, and in that case I have no doubt that that will happen. In the same way, I must also say that, if the judicial authority agrees to request the declassification of documents and indeed the documents do exist, it is also clear that this Government will always cooperate with the justice system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u17	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u18	Mr President, I am asking a government to presume to move forward with a democratic memory law and to take all these issues and the truth very much into consideration. I am asking a Government that has promised - it has not yet done so - to bring a bill to amend the Official Secrets Act, which is the one that prevents this case from being brought to light and therefore the courts from acting. This case is very emblematic. Look at how difficult it is for the Parliament of Navarre to agree, and they all voted for the truth to be investigated. The Basque Government considers him a victim. The detainees were not from ETA, they were never even charged and were released, except one person, who died and in respect of whom, although they said that he had tried to escape, he was never shot, never warned that there had been an escape or never put a police device to pursue it. That case was closed falsely and that person died at the police station in Intxaurrondo; it was closed falsely by the refusal of the Administration precisely to give documentation to the courts. There are recordings of the head of the CNI, of Mr. Perote, with the captain of the Civil Guard, García Nieto, very explicit, in which he comes to say that he left his hands, and they also talk about other cases. Did you get out of your hands? For the courts to act, as you say, it is necessary for you to help. And how can they help? Lifting that veil on the secrets that are protected by a Francoist law, the Official Secrets Act. I believe that we all owe our efforts to the truth, especially those who say they are pursuing a democratic memory. Open the files. I'm going to hand over the report and ask you to read it, because it's very explicit. The family only seeks to know the truth and comfort in it. I ask you not to answer them as Mikel Zabalza's mother was told when he went to Intxaurrondo and asked where his son was: Ma'am, go find him for lost objects. I ask you not to do that and to cooperate so that the truth can be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you have referred to your group's submission in 2019 of a bill for the reform of the Official Secrets Act, which was taken into consideration in June 2020, and is indeed under parliamentary procedure and the deadline for amendments has been extended. I would also like to say that we have recently presented the regulatory plan adopted by the Council of Ministers, in which we do not only comply with the reform of this law, but go further. We have announced the adoption of a classified information law, in which the Government is already working and which, as I said earlier, is included in the legislative plan for the same year 2022. Therefore, our commitment is to comply with this plan and to present this year's Classified Information Bill. And what will this law establish? It shall establish the level of protection and classification, the bodies and authorities that may classify and the deadlines for declassification. Finally, I believe that, logically, this is an important issue for your group and also for the Government, and I hope that we can find ourselves in the process of dealing with this early law with you and with the rest of the parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Mertxe AIZPURUA ARZALLUS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW WILL THE ECONOMIC ENJOYMENT AFFECT CITIZENSHIP? [[File number 180/000824]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u21	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u22	Mr Sánchez, the light, the fuels, the gas, the raw materials, everything is rising, reaching unorbited prices. We have been rising for months and with inflation triggered, and the war in Ukraine and actions will aggravate this situation. We are facing an energy, economic and social emergency that is already impacting citizens. You say that hard times are coming, that sacrifices will have to be made. Again, it will be the workers alone who assume the economic and social consequences. Mr. Sanchez, I know you know that, but this is unsustainable. People are very worried and afraid, because they simply cannot cope with these increases. That is why measures must be taken now, without allowing another day to pass. We would like to know what measures it will take to prevent economic deterioration from affecting citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u23	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. The first thing I would like to transfer to the Spaniards is that the cost of not intervening, of not reacting to what Putin is doing in Ukraine would be much greater, because what he is questioning is precisely European security. If Putin succeeds in a war and an invasion that is absolutely illegal, unjust and unjustified, in which the assaulted is clearly an absolutely defenceless people in the face of such aggression, obviously the situation, international order and security in Europe would be greatly weakened. Therefore, the Spanish have to be aware that the cost of not acting, of not reacting with these economic sanctions would be even greater from the point of view of the impact on our lives, in our society, in our way of living together than the one that, unfortunately, right now we are going to have to suffer. From there, what is the Government of Spain in? First, it is essential to move the message of unity of the international community and, in particular, of Europe in the response to Putin. Secondly, we have to be tough on the economic sanctions on the Putin regime. Thirdly, we have to work at European level, as the Spanish Government is doing, precisely to cushion the consequences on raw materials, on energy and, in particular, on gas, which is obviously going to have this war, and the Spanish Government has been doing so for a few months now, not only for two or three months but for a year now. Precisely what is being seen in the evolution of the gas price is that Putin has already been preparing the war for over a year, and now we are seeing what the consequences of what the Spanish Government has been denouncing for a long time are. And finally, here I had the opportunity to put forward a national plan to respond to the economic effects of this war, which, I insist, will be an open plan, pending the proposals of the parliamentary groups, and a dynamic plan, that is, it will continue to evolve as a result of which we do not know the size and impact it will have on industry, on the European and Spanish economy. What I can transfer to you, Your Honor, is the firm and unequivocal commitment of the Government of Spain to protect the most vulnerable families, the most vulnerable groups and our industry, our companies, and in particular SMEs, to protect our fellow citizens so that they are not hostage to this energy blackmail that Putin is inflicting on the European economy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u25	Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u26	Mr. Sanchez, I value those commitments. But what I am asking of you are measures, because we believe that there is already a need for a comprehensive shock plan that deploys strong social, economic and labour protection against what may happen. To put a stop to energy prices - I give you some measures -, ending the shameful electrical business, which is enriched by producing energy at 50 euros and charging it at 700; or to prevent a wage devaluation, so that the workers do not become poorer; to ensure, as he has said, that every vulnerable person has guaranteed the basic needs of housing, electricity, water and heating, and also that SMEs, which sustain employment and pour out the productive and industrial fabric, can cope with this crisis and maintain themselves: all this and much more will be necessary, measures will be necessary. And this time it will have to be the big fortunes, the big companies, the electrics and the banks, the ones that have never done it, the ones that will have to bear the weight by means of excise taxes, because, if not, the sacrifices of those you warn will fall on the social and working majority, and will share with me that they have already borne enough. Workers have been in crisis since 2008, trying to recover, without succeeding, along with generations who have known nothing but hard times, that's the situation. We believe, indeed, that it is time to be responsible. If you are willing to deploy the necessary economic and social protection, without cutting rights or impoverishing citizens, you have no doubt that you will have our full support. Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JAIME EDUARDO DE OLANO VELA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE FIRST AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WILL YOU BELIEVE WE HAVE A PROBLEM WITH INFLATION? [[File number 180/000819]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u27	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u28	Thank you, President. Mrs Calviño, faced with your triumphalism, the Spanish reality, as a result of your economic policies, was already very bad before the invasion of Ukraine, the worst of the great economies of the European Union. We are the country that fell the most in the year 2020 and we are the one that will take the longest to recover. We are the country where families have lost more income. We are the country in which inequality and poverty have increased further. We are the country with the highest unemployment rate. We are the country where public debt has increased the most, and inflation was already the highest in Europe before the invasion of Ukraine. We are one of the countries with the highest electricity price, and yesterday reached 700 euros. With the price of light at 50 euros all of you were asking for resignation from the People's Party, and now, at 700 euros, you are asking us for patience. Aren't you ashamed, Mrs. Calviño? The invasion of Ukraine is going to exacerbate these imbalances and we already know that you are going to cheat on it as an alibi to hide your incompetence. Are you going to continue to deny the problem that we drag with inflation? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u29	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u30	Thank you, President. Mr Olano, what a pity, you had the opportunity to change the tone, to change the orientation and position of the People's Party and, unfortunately, remains the same. [[Applauds]] Mr Olano, our Government's concern about energy price developments has been expressed from the outset. Moreover, Spain was the first country to signal alarm in Europe, and we had been pushing the European Union for many months to give an effective response that dampens the impact of the evolution of gas prices and the preparations for the war being waged by Putin. Fortunately, we are now getting much more support in Europe to accompany us in the set of measures we have put in place at national level. Mr Olano, we do not ask the People's Party for patience, we ask for responsibility, loyalty, which is what an opposition party has to do. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u31	Mr. Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u32	Thank you, President. It would be advisable, Mrs Calviño, if you were to tell the truth once, because we already know that your Government is only right when it corrects. That's why we're asking you to rectify it. The light, the gasoline, the oil, the pasta have been going up for a whole year without stopping. That's the daily drama of many families, and it's probably not yours. Inflation has been a serious problem for a long time, but you do not want to cut it because it serves to increase tax collection, even at the expense of the well-being of the Spaniards. The Spaniards get poorer while you're cashing in. Today prices rise by 7.4%, never seen in the last thirty-three years, something unbearable for millions of people. That is why I ask you to correct and it is the State that assumes this cost by adjusting the IRPF sections so that families do not pay twice the cost of their incompetence: the first in the supermarket, in the gas station or in the receipt of the light and then in the declaration of the rent. Correct, Mrs. Calviño, do not make the Spaniards suffer any more while you waste in useless ministries. They have a margin of 60 billion in superfluous spending, as the Institute for Economic Studies has credited. Mrs Calviño, rectify, abandon that ideological agenda that you signed with the far left and listen to the People's Party. Do the same as the countries that are doing the best in Europe. The current situation requires a high level of attention, not his propaganda or the infantilism of Podemos. Do no more harm to families that are already completely suffocated. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u33	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u34	Thank you. Mr Olano, three elements of response: firstly, the rise in energy prices, some raw materials, of important inputs for the agri-food sector is the main channel of transmission of this aggression on Ukraine in the case of the Spanish economy. Secondly, from the government we have taken decisive measures, lowering energy taxes, the costs of the electro-intensive industry, the support bonus for the most vulnerable groups; we have taken all the measures we can at our level, measures that, by the way, have an estimated tax impact of between EUR 10,000 and EUR 12 billion per year. Thirdly, Mr Olano, it is clear that measures at national level are not enough to respond to an energy blackmail that has an international character, and that is why we have been working and encouraging the European Union to give a decisive response. Fortunately, yesterday's Commission communication already puts on the table many of the proposals that we have been advocating led by the President of the Government. We are talking about centralized purchasing of energy, strategic storage; we are talking about price limits in wholesale markets; we are talking about speeding up the deployment of renewables, increasing Europe's strategic autonomy at an absolutely key time, a time when the main opposition party would have to provide the Spaniards with respect, loyalty and responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW DOES IT EXPLAIN THAT INFLATION HAS BEEN DURING THE LAST MOST THREE AND THREE YEARS? [[File number 180/000815]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u35	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, last week I told you that your government was presiding over the biggest fall in gross domestic product since the Spanish civil war, and you told me I don't know what about Franco, that ghost that you like, and also President Sánchez said something about it. Look, I'll get you a graph so you can keep an eye on it. [[Show a chart]] Do you see this low? Do you see a drop of 10,8 % in gross domestic product? The worst fall since the Spanish civil war. It is not Franco, it is Pedro Sánchez and it is you, Mrs Calviño, who are sinking the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] It's economic history of Spain. And you are already part of it, but, of course, for evil. I also asked her a few weeks ago about inflation, when we were at 6.1% - by the way, several weeks before the Ukraine war - and you, in your usual self-congratulation tone, told me that the government was taking many steps, assured me that the government's energy policy was going to allow a cleaner, cheaper energy, and then you didn't talk about Franco but you said what about LGBT minorities that have nothing to do with the issue. I didn't believe him, and I did it right, because you know what's going on? We now know that inflation is not only above 6%, but it is at 7.4%. Minister, with you Spaniards are 7.4% poorer than a year ago. We have the highest inflation in Europe after twelve months of inflation. Minister, what are you going to do? How does it explain that inflation is at the highest of the last thirty this year? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u37	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u38	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you can see that you were upset to see that you had said a barbarity, that this was the worst government in Spain since the Civil War. I understand you want to retract what you said, but please don't confuse things. You said that very clearly in this Chamber. [[Applauds]] Secondly, it also seems that they are the only ones who have not heard that we have been preparing for months for an attack on Ukraine and that we have a war on the eastern border of Europe of a great power of generation of gas, oil, coal and other raw materials and that, therefore, that is having an inflationary effect on the whole of Europe. [[rumors]] In this regard, what our Government continues to do, what it will continue to do, is to act decisively at national and European level to cushion the negative impact on our families and businesses. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u39	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u40	Madam Vice-President, I see that what is not COVID is Ukraine and that with that you will follow the whole legislature: either COVID or Ukraine. But the reality is that you already have a full legislature, you have been in government for four years: stop putting your failed ideology before the Spanish interests, Minister, because it is you who are sinking Spain. This same week, when the light is at its historical maximum price, you approved yesterday 20,300 million euros - I do not invent it, it is impossible to invent - for cross-cutting feminist policies. Wonderful, 20 billion! A family of four in Spain will pay 1800 euros for Mrs Montero's whims. These are their cross-cutting feminist policies. This same week, with gas at two euros per litre, you propose more taxes, don't you, Minister of Finance? More taxes on natural gas, gasoline and diesel. This same week, while you suffocating the Spaniards, you approve grants to class unions for 17 million euros. Do you know for what? So they don't go out on the street. But don't worry, because the Spaniards are going out on the street even if the unions don't come out. Next March 19th, the Spaniards will go out and tell them that we will not go forward until we leave them behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u41	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u42	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I have always made it clear that you do not support feminist policies and that you hate trade unions. We are going to set aside ideology and focus on an issue on which I absolutely agree with you, and it is the need to strengthen our country's strategic autonomy in order not to be subjected to Putin's strategic blackmail. Let us leave the ideology and go to the facts: Spain has no deposits of gas, oil or uranium and we have less water than other countries, so when you talk about energy sovereignty I understand that you are talking about the sun and the wind, so you are finally realizing that the only responsible policy at this time is to support the energy transition. [[Applauds]] I am very pleased that they finally put aside the ideology and support that we will speed up the deployment of renewable energies so that Spanish citizens, families and businesses have the cleanest and cheapest energy possible as soon as possible. This is the objective of the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE KANDAMIL KINGDOM, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AND MINISTER FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO FRENCH IS THE BRUTAL EXCHANGE OF PRICES PROVIDED FROM ACQUISITIVE POWER AND POVERTY OF POPULAR CLASSES? [[File number 180/000816]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u43	Question by Mr Néstor Rego Candamil, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, what steps will the Government take to curb the brutal price escalation, which is causing the loss of purchasing power and impoverishment of the popular classes?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u45	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u46	Thank you very much, President. As we have repeatedly pointed out in this House, the Government has acted - not now, but for months now, since the rise in energy prices - to cushion the negative impact on Spanish families and businesses. We have lowered taxes on electricity, completely eliminating some of them on a temporary basis. We have reduced the operating costs of the system for companies, with an 80% bonus of the operating charges of the system for the electro-intensive industry, which means a transfer of very important resources to this heart of our industry. We have taken measures to support the most vulnerable groups, extending all protection and social bonds. Furthermore, we are pushing for a determined response at European level to move away and protect ourselves from this energy blackmail to which we are subjected. The President of the Government has recently announced an extension of some of these measures and, in addition, we have begun work with the social partners to reach an income pact that will provide confidence, stability and security for Spanish citizens. This is a government which acts, Mr Rego, and I hope you will support it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u47	Mr. Rego.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u48	Madam Vice-President, the Galician and state-wide popular classes are facing the scandalous rise in prices. In practice, this is a currency devaluation which translates into an abrupt impoverishment of the majority of society. Those who arrived at the end of the month with difficulties today no longer arrive and those who no longer arrived much less. People who pay the same salary as a year ago pay much more for electricity, fuel, butane candy, the shopping basket or rent. Today the megawatt/hour beats a new record: 743 euros. That is to say, since December 2020 the price multiplied by ten and, while many families cannot afford electricity or heating, the three big electrics won by 2021 more than €65 billion. Only the president of Iberdrola, Sánchez Galán, has pocketed 13.2 million euros, 8% more than in 2020. It's just indecent. Now you propose wage restraint and an income pact. In other words, the assault on labor income to save those of capital. Not that way. The living conditions of workers cannot continue to deteriorate. Look, you raised the interprofessional minimum wage by 3.6%, but the inflation of 2021 went up to 6.5%, i.e. the people who received the least lost purchasing power. I repeat, in our opinion there should not be any further. There are other solutions to be adopted and implemented, as proposed by the BNG, by measures such as lowering VAT on basic food, rising wages and the main social benefits under the CPI, increasing minimum pensions, a deep tax reform, delinking gas and electricity prices, cutting electricity profits and intervention by energy and housing markets to guarantee rights and decent living. The Spanish Government cannot profile itself, let alone throw balloons out, blaming the situation on external factors, now in a timely manner to Putin, because this situation is already coming from far behind. And let alone make this crisis pay once again for the workers, the self-employed, the social majorities and the peoples. That's not the way, because besides...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u49	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u50	Thank you, President. Mr Rego, many of the proposals you have made are precisely the measures we have been taking - measures which, as I have pointed out, have a very significant tax impact of at least EUR 10 or 12 billion per year - and we will continue to act effectively. But I was interested in his reference to the income pact, because precisely the objective is to ensure that society as a whole contributes to economic stabilization and to avoid an inflationary spiral that can have a more negative structural impact on our economy. That is why we have met with all the social partners and that is why we are going to work with them in this direction, because this is a Government committed to the protection of the most vulnerable. You have spoken of the need to raise pensions. We have a commitment to revalue pensions. We've gone up the lowest ones. We have raised the interprofessional minimum wage by more than 33% since we are in the government. We have created the minimum living income. All social bonds and instruments for the protection of the most vulnerable groups have been extended. Mr Rego, this is well known to Galician citizens and citizens throughout Spain. Support us because we are in the right direction to try to have a very different response to these successive crises that we are having to face, a response that thinks above all, and in the first place, of the most vulnerable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF GUILLERMO DÍAZ GOMEZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT CHANGES IN THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAMME TO MITIGATE THE ECONOMIC EFFECTS OF MEASURES TO RESPONSE THE INVASION TO URANIA TO THE SPANISH FAMILY AND ENTERPRISES? [[File number 180/000817]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u51	Question by Mr Guillermo Díaz Gómez of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u52	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, Putin's invasion of Ukraine is having unprecedented effects on the European and Spanish economies. The world is changing. What's your government going to change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u53	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u54	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the truth is that I thank you, because you are the first one here to acknowledge that Putin's attack on Ukraine, which is absolutely unjustified and unacceptable, has a very important economic impact. Although, fortunately, Spain is less exposed than others in terms of energy dependence or dependence on other raw materials, the most important transmission channel is that of energy prices, the prices of some inputs from the agri-food sector and also fertilizers. That is why we have been taking measures for a long time, measures that have been extended and strengthened to try to cushion the negative impact on Spanish families and businesses. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u55	Mr. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u56	Thank you, Vice President. I'm going to propose a star measure. When you have said these days that inflation is going to be higher than it is, what you mean is that the Spaniards are going to have less purchasing power. In spite of that, we can want to raise taxes. Our star measure: cast Podemos. When you talk about the rise in energy prices right now you are saying that you want to align with the European Commission, park the anti-nuclear slogans of Podemos and extend the lives of nuclear power plants. In Podemos, as good magufos, they believe that energy is created and destroyed. Transform the government and throw out Podemos. When you were literally saying in these past days that difficult times are coming, what you mean, like Gil de Biedma, is that life was serious; and, if life is serious, they need serious partners. Throw it out. Mrs. Calviño, focus on the Spaniards who, once again, are going to bear on their shoulders the expenditure of the State; on those super payers who every time they hear the word 'helps' know that they are not going to touch them; on those super payers who charge an average wage and who have a slightly higher income than required to access an official protective house or a dining scholarship; on those super payers who see how their money is worth less every day and that filling the car's petrol tank is already a luxury activity; on those Spaniards who charge above what the Government considers to charge little but less than necessary to reach the end of the month; on those super payers we can consider a kind of ATM. Only in this way can we joyfully announce that they will spend 20 billion euros in the ministry of Irene Montero. Do you know what is called an expense of these characteristics? It's called precision sandblasting. Is that your plan? Is that the government's plan? Dedicating twice the defence budget - twice the defence budget, with which it is falling! - 20 billion euros, to the ministry of Irene Montero? In Podemos, after asking not to help Ukraine, yesterday they shouted: Equality! Putin kills men and women, boys and girls alike. That is Putin's policy of equality that We can appease. Mrs Calviño, for democratic health, for your inner peace, for the good of Spain and, if you press me, for the good of humanity, throw Podemos. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u57	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u58	Thank you very much. Two thoughts. First of all, when you talk about state spending, I always wonder what you're talking about. To cut pensions, to cut health spending or spending on education? Now I get it. What is wrong with you is that we see what part of the budgets has a positive gender impact. Well, let me tell you that this type of budgeting is being done by the most advanced countries in the world, and it makes every sense for us to plan for five years to try to identify what impact investment and spending is having, because a very important part of public budgets, of course it has a gender dimension, of course it has a different impact! [[applause]] Visibility is a sign of progress, modernity and progress, so, frankly, I don't understand. Secondly, I do not understand very well what interests you are defending. I understand that you defend the interests of super payers. I don't know if you're referring to those electric leaders to whom the question I just answered was that they have absolutely exorbitant salaries. I do not know exactly who he is talking about, because this Government has had a responsible policy for almost four years and, clearly, the priority is to promote economic recovery, job creation and move towards a fairer tax system. I can't believe this looks bad to you, too. In any case, Mr de Ciudadanos, you can be calm, because in the Government we have very clear what needs to be done: to continue to boost economic growth, to continue to promote job creation, to protect the most vulnerable groups and, yes, to promote a feminist policy that will make us better as a country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MR MARIO GARCÍES SANAGUSTÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHAT IMPACT WILL THE CRISIS OF CURRANIA TAKE INTO EMPLOYMENT? [[File number 180/000820]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u59	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, Putin has blown up the post-war international order. Putin is a communist, autocrat, and ally of the Soviet regime; ally of the Soviet regime that is hostile to any conceivable form of morality. [[rumors]] And, by the way, within your government, bubble a kind of unconditional pacifism - which you have ahead of you, three meters away - according to which they think that if we have enemies it is because we are looking for them. No, it is the enemies who designate us, and not the other way around. The government suffers its own conflict: Pedro Sánchez locked in his labyrinth of lies and contradictions; you on that journey nowhere, from communism to nothing; Garzón in his part-time Marxism, and the most curious thing is that of his former companions Belarus and Montero, entangled in the 'No to War', abominated from the Ministry of Defense to defend their ministries and qualify the Socialist Party as a party of war. You know what, Madam Vice President? You definitely no longer represent the bases of the United Nations We can, you represent yourself. And you know why? Because you lost the original political legitimacy by evolution, as, for example, Garzón, Belarus or Montero have lost it by ministerial maintenance. [[Rumors]] And now, curiously, you propose an income pact. They are surprisingly proposing an income pact to moderate private wages and to contain tax benefits. Why do they not make a pact with the general budgets of the State to moderate and restrict those subsidies and aid that are useless, to restrict this political-administrative superstructure that brings us back to the worst of times? Why don't you do that? However, we stand as we stand. For all this, and in memory of all the workers who wield arms in defense of Ukraine's freedom, he asked: What is the cost in employment in Spain of the war in that country? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u61	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u62	Mr Garcés, first of all, allow me to acknowledge the victims of the war in Putin and to express solidarity with the people of Ukraine and also with the Russian people. Indeed, the impact of the Putin war on Europe and, therefore, on economic and employment in Spain will surely be significant. In the face of this challenge, what we hope in the Spanish Government is that the People's Party, which you represent today, will rise to the challenge. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u63	Mr. Garcés.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u64	I'm clear who I represent, what you're not clear is who you represent, whether we can United or ourselves. And I tell you something else: the old dogma of the communist pattern usually says that if we're not with you, we're antipatriots. No, we will defend the Spaniards first of all attack against individual freedom. By the way, they face the truth, because they can be with the Government or against the Government, but they cannot be against the Government within the Government. Therefore, today, March 9th, the day of dignity, they resign Belarus and Montero. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u65	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u66	Mr Garcés, speaking of the economic and employment impact, the Spanish Government has already started. [[Rumors]] Last Monday we called on the social partners to give a collective response as a country and to save what we have already done in the pandemic, to save workers, their families and businesses in our country. We have already done it and have no doubt that we will do it again with as many measures as are essential, with you or without you. Mr. Garcés, I'm going to give you a data. These days Eurostat published the January unemployment rate of our country, which was 12.7%. This unemployment rate, Mr Garcés, is half of that sinister figure that you presented in 2013, when you reached unemployment with your harmful management of 27 %. [[Rumors]] Mr. Garcés, believe me we're not going to, we're not going to reach 27%. Also, Mr Garcés, today we have more than 20 million occupied, we have more than 500,000 new people affiliated with social security and, look, with a job reform that you did not support today 22% of contracts in our country are indefinite. You've disappointed me, Mr. Garcés. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Oooh!-Rumors]] I expected you to intervene intelligently and with proposals. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u67	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u68	He noted that, although they change their spokesmen, their policies are the same: nothing, they have no alternative. Mr Garcés, I make a humble recommendation to you: do not make the same mistake you made in the pandemic, do not use Putin's war against this government, because it is not against this government, it is against our country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND CHAIRPERSON: IS SHE USING CLASS-SYNDICATES AS THEIR PERSONAL PLATFORMS? [[File number 180/000812]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u69	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán from the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u70	With all due respect, Madam President. Good morning. Minister, are you using class unions as your personal platforms?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u71	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u72	Your Honor, you think you offend me, but you do not offend me; you offend the trade unions in our country and the workers you represent. Despite its low level, I'm not going down to it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u73	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u74	Dear Minister, reflect yourself in the mirror of the ten data I'm going to give you. [[laughs]] It is 443 square meters of the official housing you occupy as minister; by the way, the largest of the twenty-two ministries, which for that you are a good communist. They are zero euros that you pay per month for the service, water, light, gas and heating of your 443 square meters of official housing. It is 700 euros the megawatt/hour historical record of the bill of light that yesterday we paid the rest of the Spaniards, 700 euros; just a year ago the price of light was at 49 euros and it was already expensive. The price of gasoline is 2 euros/litre. It is 24 months that the offices of SEPE - the former INEM -, which depend on you, have closed to the public if not by prior appointment; it is a real miracle to be able to consume. There are 927,500 long-term unemployed in Spain today, 300,000 more than before the pandemic; only in Spain do we have more long-term unemployed than seventeen European Union countries together. The total number of unemployed in Spain today is 3,111,684; the highest unemployment rate in the eurozone, the OECD and the European Union is in Spain: 13%. It is 17 million euros that yesterday, while the Spaniards paid 700 euros the light - less you - granted the Council of Ministers to the trade unions. It is 87 million euros that UGT and the Workers' Commissions, the class unions, have received in the last decade, 57% more since you are minister. 2012 was the last year in which a general strike was called in Spain; although in fact there were two in that year, one in March to protest against the labor reform approved by the People's Government and another in November against measures to reduce the public deficit. With this data, which is yours, lady unemployed, communist minister, we have class unions that have become real personal platforms of yours. Nine years without social mobilizations. In France, only in the last two years, there have been twelve general strikes. We announced, as my president, Santiago Abascal, did yesterday, that next March 19th it will be VOX, together with Solidarity, who brings the Spaniards to the street. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u75	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u76	Your Honor, I would like to understand what you have against the Spanish Constitution. [[Laughter and rumors]] I'd like to understand. I would like you to explain to me, who is a lawyer for the State, why you think that the Spanish constituent decided to place the class unions and business organisations nothing more and nothing less than in Article 7 of the constitutional text. Why do you think he did it? [[Applauds]] I'll tell him. He did so because the Spanish constituent was aware - as this government is aware - that class unions and entrepreneurs are key to transforming our country. Mrs Olona, don't be fooled, you know perfectly well how important class unions are. That's why they fight them; they fight them hard. You know why? Because the unions allow the workers of our country to move forward. Do you also know why, Mrs. Olona? Because trade unions are the heart of democracies. [[Rumors]] And I am already warning you, Mrs Olona, that the Government of Spain is going to comply with the law, as you have been doing. And it will comply with the law, as it has done, also with the financing of trade unions and employers' organizations, just as the Government of Spain complies with the law with the financing of its political party. Your political party receives public funding no more and no less than the freezing of EUR 10 million each year, Mrs Olona. [[Applauds]] We comply with the law with you and we will comply with the law with the class unions. Mrs. Olona, do you know how many workers the class unions represent? 90% of them. [[Rumors]] Do you know what we're talking about? They're not chiringuitos. [[Rumors]] The Chiringuitos are theirs, because they represent exactly 0.0001 %. You and your chiringuitos don't represent anyone. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JUAN DIEGO REQUENA RUIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: IS THE GAS STILL DEFENDED NOT A ENERGY FOR THE ENERGY TRANSITION? [[File number 180/000821]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u77	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Juan Diego Requena Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u78	Mrs Ribera, you've been doing energy prophecies for a long time, and the truth is that you're only right when you rectify. Don't blame Russia or Putin. Look at yourself. I will give you two data: one, you have multiplied by three imports of Russian oil since 2018 and, two, you are responsible for Spain buying natural gas from Russia. Do you know how much gas was purchased from Russia until its arrival in the government? Zero. And do you know how much you represent right now? Almost 11%. And what's even worse, another lie. You literally said that the war in Ukraine did not affect Spain because Russia is not one of our main suppliers either by pipe or by boat. Well, of the twenty-two origins of gas, Russia is the fourth supplier. Tell us, why have you made Russia a major supplier of oil and gas? Mrs Ribera, this report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs you have hidden it and it says that Spain can be the solution to Russian gas and to Spanish and European energy sufficiency. [[shows a document]] The closure of the Maghreb pipeline is an unusual failure of its own. They lie to us saying that the price rise is for war, but Spain already had the highest prices before the war. And if not, why don't they grow up in Portugal as much as they do here? And finally, you want to sell Morocco the gas we don't have. The problem is not the gas, the problem is you. That is why I ask you: are you still defending that gas is not a useful energy for energy transition? Don't blame Russia. You've made us lose three years. Answer me, for once, recognizing your failure. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u79	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u80	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I would recommend, once again, that you read the official documents, including the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan and the Long-Term Decarbonisation Strategy, in which you recognize the central role that gas plays in decarbonisation during the transition period; obviously, with different deadlines, but this has never been discussed. There are three things that have been discussed. The first is: what is the additional investment that can be required in gas infrastructure and, if so, who pays for it? Because the Spanish gas consumer pays for its hugely expensive gas supply security, with one third of the regasification capacity in Europe as a whole. Therefore, in this European vision of solidarity with others, the question is who pays for an interconnection to ensure security of supply in central and northern Europe. Our claim is that it is not the Spanish taxpayer, that it is not a consumer of Spanish gas. The second is the volume, how much we're talking about. Let me remind you that it is not the government of any European country that buys or sells gas, but private companies. In this sense, our role is to facilitate a good relationship, a good balance and a good diversification, such as that presented by Spain, which allows us to be much less exposed to Russian gas despite the fact that these are commodities or goods that are listed on international markets and tend to equal their price. We are therefore affected by price developments on international markets. And the third question concerns the time limits. We now see more than ever that in order to reduce Europe's economic vulnerability, even if in Spain it is less because of the smaller presence of Russian gas and oil, we need to accelerate the energy transition, which is something else we would also like to see you back up and close ranks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u81	Mr. Requena.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u82	Mrs. Rivera, don't get bogged down in your fanaticism anymore. We want to help get the Spaniards out of the problems that you create for them. Encourage gas interconnection with France - the one you vetoed - so that it can be included within PCI projects. Negotiate the reopening of the Maghreb gas pipeline. Activate the biogas road map. Accelerate the opening of the El Musel regasifier. Make a tax cut to oil and gas consumers; never has a government raised either at the expense of essential sectors, such as industry or transport, or at the expense of heating families. Extend the useful life of nuclear power plants as a guarantee for a successful energy transition. Please explain to us why the President of the Nuclear Security Council has resigned and tell us whether they are going to affect the nuclear security of Spain's attempts to interfere with the independence of the Council. We know these aren't easy times, but you've made them worse. We are going to give him another chance to tell us why he has decided to make Russia the main supplier of oil and gas in Spain. I say this because Spain, according to Ursula von der Leyen, must be a priority partner. Take note, it will not be that we fall into irrelevantness and this leads us to the contempt of Europe and the world, since yesterday's communication from the European Union tells you that you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u83	Thank you, Mr. Requena. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Requena. I recommend that you go back to learning comprehension, reading and oral messages. [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u85	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u86	You have forgotten to say that Mrs Von der Leyen has for the umpteenth time insisted on the important role she is playing in Spain and on the call for support for Spain in this crisis, which responds to our offer. You have forgotten to read yesterday's communication and to realize that, although a few months ago you described it as a business interference and without any kind of scruple, the measures that the Spanish Government was promoting today are reflected in the communication adopted yesterday by the European Commission. And it's forgotten you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u87	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: DOES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE ESTABLISH THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE ESTABLISH THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE ESTABLISHED IN THE ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS 123a OF THE STATE'S GENERAL BUDGETS FOR THE YEAR 2022? [[File number 180/000811]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u88	Question by Mr Tomás Guitarte Gimeno of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u89	Madam Vice-President, allow me some background. In the investment agreement we agreed that tax incentives would be applied for economic recovery and job creation in unpopulated areas. Also, on November 3, 2020, the Minister of Finance in the Senate, in response to a question from Teruel Existe, said strongly yes regarding the possibility of applying operating aid to companies for the provinces of Soria, Cuenca and Teruel, authorized by the European Commission for their low population density. In the negotiation of the 2022 budgets, we complied with the request for a specific commitment in respect of these aids, with the addition of additional provision 123.a Finally, the Government has acknowledged that on 1 December 2021 it sent the European Commission the regional aid map for the period 2022-2027. Does the Government already have a timetable for implementing these operating aid?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u90	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u91	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question, which shows that we do indeed agree with a concern and interest, a commitment by the Government to work precisely in those provinces with the lowest population density, preventing depopulation from increasing and strengthening the possibility of attracting population and employment and, therefore, economic activity. Indeed, as you rightly say, additional provision 123 of the general budgets of the State expressly reflects this commitment, a commitment that is deployed in at least three different lines that we can analyse. The first is to work in the context of the social dialogue with trade unions, with employers, an institutional dialogue that must include and identify the best ways to strengthen this reception capacity. The second, to which you referred, is the dispatch to the European Union of our proposal for a map of regional aid; an important supplementary map of regional aid, which increases by more than five points the total aid which we believe is important for these territories to receive and which is still awaiting approval. And the third, working not only on investment aid but also on operating aid for large and small enterprises, because the fundamental objective - and this requires more than just reducing operating costs - is to increase economic activity in these provinces. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u92	Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u93	We are uncertain whether these operating aids are specifically included in the map sent, which would be the maps of previous years. The lack of clear answers to these issues generates distrust in the territories. In fact, that he answers his ministry today and not those directly competent in this matter - such as Finance or Social Security - makes us think that we are still in a proposed and non-executive phase. We have been behind these subsidies for a long time, they would be a great boost for job creation, as Esade has recently pointed out in a study on public policies that work to alleviate depopulation, in addition to increasing wages, workers, reducing the urban-digital wage gap, which is a brake on many people when they go to live in these territories. Our companies really can't take it anymore, the crisis has hit companies in the rural world twice; on the one hand, by COVID and a second crisis, by the prices of many products and energy. If the European Union's aid is not implemented, this double crisis can put an end to a large part of Spain's empty productive and entrepreneurial fabric. We have the impression that - and I find it hard to say this - really in this matter with us there is nothing more to do than make the loss dizzy. We perceive a lack of real and determined will to take courageous policies to fight against the depopulation of our territories. These aid must be implemented retroactively by January 2022, fulfilling the commitment before, unfortunately, it is too late.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u94	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u95	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The commitment is reflected in the budgets and initiatives under way. Let me remind you of some of the most important issues in this aid map in relation to the three provinces with a density of less than 12.5 inhabitants per square kilometre. He pointed out that we have proposed that five percentage points should be raised from the current map. He pointed out - and he developed the idea - that investment aid can be granted to medium and small enterprises, that large enterprises can also have investment aid in certain areas, and in particular in those designated for the Just Transition Fund, which affects the province of which you are a Member, which you represent. In the three provinces, aid could be given to SMEs and large enterprises, not only to investment. All this, in line with the regulation on investment and operating aid drawn up by the European Union and working and being aware that the competences of the autonomous communities also play an important role. But above all, competitiveness - as I said - not only depends on the granting of aid; we need a serious dialogue and a growth of an ecosystem... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO REACTION FROM THE VALLEY TO THE BEAUTIFUL WALL ON WEDNESDAY? [[File number 180/000823]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u97	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u98	Mr. Marlaska, you have no credibility. You always lie. It said three years ago that there would be no fences and now there are fences, hooks, nails, police and civilian guards wounded, and you are the only one responsible. There is a situation of insecurity in the population of Melilla that they do not deserve, and you are the only one responsible. What are you going to do to stop this, Mr. Marlaska? Because you're the only one responsible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u99	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the extraordinary and hard work of our forces and security forces on the border of Melilla and also on the border of Ceuta. In Melilla, last week - Wednesday and Thursday - they had to face two really violent jumps, where - as you have said - forks, sticks, screws, etc. were used, and 50 agents -47 civilian guards and 3 national police officers were wounded of different consideration; I hope, of course, that all of them will recover quickly. But we will continue to work under three pillars for the protection of our borders. Firstly, by cooperating with neighbouring countries, in this case, with Morocco. As a result of this work, cooperation and coordination, the two jumps were smaller than the expectations of 4,000 people trying to do so. But it is that on Friday the jump of another 1000 people was avoided and yesterday the same happened. That is cooperation and coordination, loyalty and reliability with our neighbours. Secondly, it also improves the effectiveness of the border perimeter. No restructuring took place during his Government. We are already in the second phase of the restructuring of the border perimeter, not from a physical point of view only, but also from the point of view of an intelligent border and, of course, also with reinforcement of the troops. Why could we carry a hundred troops the next day? Because we've made a public job offer where we've recovered 10,000 agents out of the 13,000 you lost. And with regard to crime in Melilla, since President Sánchez's government has lowered the crime rate by 17 points. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u101	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the assault of 2500 immigrants there were 28 agents on duty. Imagine: 28 agents to deal with him, with his body, at 2500. When they saw that they were insufficient, you sent 50 more agents. Result? 53 officers injured and you're the only one responsible. Look, a year ago there were some similar jumps in Ceuta and since then you haven't done anything. The National Security report warned of these massive jumps in Ceuta and Melilla two months ago, and you did nothing. Now we find a divided government in which some criminalize the police and the Civil Guard while the others send him affection and you shut up. Look, don't send them affection, medium commands, let them use the anti-disturbing means, send them the 300 troops for Melilla that are needed. Let them be protected and allow them to defend themselves, Mr Marlaska; to be able to defend themselves, not to leave them abandoned. Mr. Marlaska, you should apologize. You've been a minister for four years. You no longer have the counter at zero and in these four years you have done absolutely nothing. Where are the troops for the migration policy he is so proud of? Where's your immigration policy with the Sahel? Where is your immigration policy with the European Union, which is the southern border of the European Union? You do not have a migration policy and, in that case, it is ridiculous. Look, ever since you got to the government - this chart should embarrass you - you're a so-called effect on yourself. [[shows a graph]] As far as the year goes, 30% more. Mr. Marlaska, now you say you're going to return them. If it takes a year to count those who entered Ceuta, how will you return these! Do you know what you have to do to try to avoid the effect called? Two things. The first thing, today, is to throw the emigrants out who have entered by violating the laws and assaulting the officials. And second of all, may Mr. Sanchez of the government throw you away. Go away, Mr. Marlaska. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u103	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. As has already been said several times this morning, I see that you change your leadership but do not change your tone, your judgment or your policy. They're still the same. We, on the other hand, continue to work. Of course you're right, we need more troops. Melilla's staff is 100 percent and, moreover, it has more help if necessary and precise, because we have reversed the situation. With you, 1900 agents were lost a year; with us, 3200. We're creating squares, infrastructure, 600 million. This is allowing for technological means also in the Melilla fence. As you have not gone there, you obviously do not really know the technological means that exist. Listen, go and ask the agents what's been invested. And please don't lie, don't be opportunistic. Migration policy is being pursued, which you did not do. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY IS I FEELING UNABLE TO GUARANTEE THE SAFETY OF THE SPANISH FRONTERS FRONT OF ILEGAL IMMIGRATION? [[File number 180/000813]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u105	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why are you and this government unable to defend the Spanish borders?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u107	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Your question is very easy to answer. The external borders of the European Union, which are also the Spanish borders, are protected. I'll tell you, we only have 0.0021% of irregular entries. I'm going to get ahead of your replica. He will surely say that we do not protect them, link immigration with insecurity, criminalize vulnerable groups and try to sow hatred in our society. I'd better not be that, but I think that's going to be his replica. I am going to reflect on migration policy. I open quotes: 'In these matters we must all act with the rigour, the sense and the commitment to make a state policy, with the will to give reality in the concrete policies of immigration and alienation to those values that our Constitution defines: tolerance, solidarity and pluralism'. This is something you said in September 1996. I think your speech now in the replica, sadly, is going to be something different. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u109	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we knew you were a bad minister, but you have shown us today that as a diviner it is even worse. The facts are the facts. Inadequate material and human means; temporary patching of troops when circumstances tighten, as now; inability to adequately defend our police and civilian guards because you forbid them from using anti-disturbing material and a systematic erratic policy turned into fact called are the causes of the events occurring at the southern border. And the bottom line is that above all some of you allow yourselves to doubt the proven professionalism of our bodies and security forces. It is intolerable that the Communist faction of the Government, following the wake of certain NGOs serving the interests of the mafias, demand resignation and investigation for what happened in Melilla. It is absolutely intolerable, it is inconceivable that you make certain statements simply trying to disguise reality to protect yourself. It is inconceivable that the director-general of the Civil Guard should stand in Melilla and recommend tranquillity because she says that, according to her, all the mechanisms of the State have worked perfectly when in just two days almost a thousand sub-Saharans have entered or that you dare to literally describe the policy with Morocco as perfect and adequate when the facts prove otherwise, the police unions deny it and it is also known that in Morocco no one enters or leaves if Morocco does not want to. Today there is an emergency situation on the southern border. You know that it will be accentuated in the coming months and VOX already demands the deployment of our Armed Forces in defense of the southern border, a policy of firmness with Morocco and the demand to NATO of the guarantee of defense of our cities of Ceuta and Melilla if that is the case. That is essential, as much as throwing this erratic and useless government away. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u111	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. You, I have no doubt, have been infected with Mr Putin's war spirit and believe that this is the concrete solution for working and coordinating with our neighbours. [[laughs]] Look, coordination and cooperation with Morocco is important, relevant and, as I say, Friday and Monday prevented another thousand people from entering our territory violently. But you obviously have exceptional extraordinary circumstances, such as the migratory pressure that countries like Morocco are also suffering. Everything is the result of many situations: climate change, COVID, etc. You guys don't know all that. Going to the question of our borders, less affection - as you say - of word to the forces and more truth. What does this government, the socialist government and the United States do? On the one hand, more agents, 10,000 new agents in three and a half years. One hundred percent of Melilla's staff is covered. We can put the support of one hundred and two hundred agents if necessary and precise in the face of extraordinary circumstances, because we have equipped ourselves with them. On the other hand, infrastructure. Go and see how the border is. We are in the second phase of a full rehabilitation with an intelligent border, guaranteeing the work of our agents. Extraordinary circumstances always exist. Do not use lies, do not use hatred, use data and protect our forces... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL MAJOR MARKS ORTEGA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: IS IT STILL CONSIDERING THAT IT IS MUCH premature TO VALUE THE CONSEQUENCES OF WAR IN URANIA? [[File number 180/000822]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u114	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mrs Milagros Marcos Ortega, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u115	Mr Planas, the situation of Spanish farmers and farmers has been extremely serious for too long, too long. The minister is you and does nothing. Look, Palencia's cookie factory has gone from spending 7 million euros on energy to more than 29 in a year. Making a kilo of apples today costs 42% more than when you arrived. Galician farmers are desperate, no one pays what costs them to produce a liter of milk. Bird farms lost 300 million euros last year, so they've been on the street all over Spain for over two years, and you're still doing nothing. What are you a minister for? What we have heard here today is very serious. The President of the Government said that he had known the impact of the crisis for a year and a month ago you said that you saw it premature to act. Can you explain it to us, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u116	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. Before yesterday, the sectoral conference of the Government of Spain and of all the autonomous communities unanimously adopted the National Strategy of Cinematic Management. In July last year, by unanimity, the Government of Spain and all the autonomous communities, including those of the People's Party, despite their pressures and threats, we reached an agreement on the CAP's national strategic plan. The President of the Government has said so perfectly. This is a particularly serious, particularly exceptional moment of war in Europe. Are you guys gonna tie your shoulder? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u118	Mrs. Marcos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u119	Minister, the autonomous communities the other day forced you to an extraordinary sectoral conference next week, because you did not have it planned. Mr. Planas, of course we're gonna tie the shoulder. The People's Party always grabs its shoulder. You don't do anything. I'll give you a few ideas. Review the CAP and green strategies. Reduce the VAT. Lower taxes and energy prices. Stop making box with the field. They invest in water, rafts, businesses and new irrigation. They have 140 billion euros and have left you with 0.75%. Zero leadership, Minister, zero. Please suspend the ideological laws of waste, of plastics, of soils. Please rectify this government's disastrous ideological policy towards the Spanish countryside. Listen to the sector. Its passivity is no longer an option, it is a waste that is ruining farmers and farmers in Spain. I've served as a minister now. Europe has begun to rectify; you do the same for the members of your Government who attack the Spanish countryside. [[A honourable Member: Yes, sir!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u120	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u121	Thank you, Madam President. As a result of the war situation, we have three particular concerns and, indeed, three actions that we are taking from the Spanish Government in the European Union. First, the issue of feed, the question of the supply of maize. We are trying to make import conditions in the European Union more flexible, and we are also trying to expand the area of production in an exceptional way in order to achieve that supply, which is so necessary. Secondly, fertilizers, directly linked to the price of gas. We have a very positive point, more than 50% of our supply is national production and, of course, this demonstrates the importance, despite the price, of having that facility. And third, sunflower oil. In relation to it, I must say that we are actually going to look for new sources of imports, new countries of origin, but we are very lucky, we are the world's first producer of olive oil, 45% of world production, and we do not have a problem with vegetable fats. Therefore, we are acting, we are responding. On the rest, I have an appearance in the Committee on Agriculture this afternoon; we have all afternoon to evoke everything you want. As for the sectoral conference you mentioned next week, it was already convened; I am very sorry, Mrs Marcos, you are always late. And I just want to point out that there is a fundamental issue, which is European strategic autonomy in relation to the food sector, which is fundamental. You are a member of Parliament for Palencia, if you are really in a turn, you have a great opportunity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u122	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE PILAR VALLUGERA BALAÑA, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMING THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT LEGISLATIVE PROGRESS HAS THE MINISTRY OF EQUALITY IN CONSOLIDATION OF THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN IN WHAT WE HAVE IN LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/00810]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u123	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Pilar Vallugera Balañà, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u124	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. Yesterday was 8 March and, in addition to having ties, going to institutional events and demonstrations, which is necessary, we believe it is the right time to account for the Government's action in feminist policies. So he asked: What legislative progress has the Ministry of Equality made in consolidating women's rights during this legislature?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u125	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u126	Thank you, President. Thank you very much for your question, Mrs Vallugera. I believe that feminism is the best thing this country has and that our responsibility is to turn that force into public policies. If we speak strictly of laws, in the last two years we have banned SAP and the regime of visits to the slightest indication of abuse. There are two laws in process, the law is only yes and the law trans and LGBTI rights, and there are at least three clearly feminist laws that are within the framework of government negotiation, such as the law on abortion, the law on trafficking and the law on families. But if we speak in a broader sense of public policy, two days after the declaration of the state of alarm, we made a contingency plan to ensure that comprehensive care for victims of violence against women was guaranteed as essential services. We have extended the 016 to cover not only victims of violence in the field of couples or ex-partners, but all forms of violence against women; Royal Decrees 901 and 902 to ensure equal pay in companies and also through equality plans the fight against inequalities in the workplace; the Correspondent Plan, for the first time a public policy specifically aimed at reconciling families, therefore women; updating and shielding the State Pact against Gender Violence and urgent measures plan to strengthen early detection and updating the protocols to ensure specific attention and all the rights of women victims of all violence against women, including sexual exploitation and trafficking; the Strategic Plan for Effective Equality between Women and Men, which we adopted yesterday, with more than EUR 20 billion to ensure the deployment of feminist public policies in our country as a matter of State. Not to mention other measures, such as the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, which, as you know, have a specific gender impact, mainly affecting women, and especially young women between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four. I am very aware that this is possible, first, by the strength of the feminist movement and, second, because here in this House there is a progressive, plurinational and feminist majority too, which is making it possible. Honestly, it's never enough until we get rid of machismo and inequalities, but also, in honor and in recognition of the team of the Ministry of Equality, I think it's very difficult to run any more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u127	Mrs. Vallugera.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u128	Minister, you know very well that, with the utmost complicity and the most absolute alignment with feminist policies, I must remind you that you have not yet brought ratification of International Labour Organization Convention 189; I must remind you that the law guaranteeing the rights of trans persons and LGBT rights is in process, but its deadlines have been exhausted and we do not yet have it in this House; I must remind you that the reform made by the PP in the 2015 law on voluntary termination of pregnancy has not yet been repealed, and I must remind you that we have in this House and throughout the country a clear setback that makes it possible, now that we have the opportunity to consolidate those rights, let us do so and let us move forward. Because if we don't, we're going back. Now it's time, now we're supposed to, and what we're asking you to do is do it. Minister, if anything teaches us the feminist struggle is that rights are fought and won in the streets; they are sent to the polls, but crystallize in the BOE. You have the responsibility and the possibility to advance and consolidate feminist rights. Don't throw this opportunity away, because what comes over us is going to mean the decades' setback and as you're aware, just like me, what we're telling you is that when they squeeze the accelerator, we'll be there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u129	Minister of Equality,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u130	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, you're right. Feminist laws always find many obstacles and then they are the ones that generate the most social consensus, as is the case with the law only if it is or with the trans law, of the most valued of all the legislative action of this Government. No doubt, I think it is difficult to run any longer, but we still put the accelerator in because this feminist parliamentary majority demands it and, above all, it is needed by the women of our country urgently to live lives free of violence and also to have time to live. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u131	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u132	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms Oramas González-Moro, on the steps that the Government will take to improve the management of minimum living income so that it reaches all those who need it. For her defence, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I am here to ask you how to improve the management of minimum living income. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u134	Excuse me a second, Mrs. Oramas, I'm going to ask for a little silence. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to have discussions, I invite you to leave the Chamber, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u135	Thank you, Madam President. I am here today, Minister, to ask you how to improve the management of minimum living income, and I do so because you, when I asked you a week ago what measures the government was going to take to ensure that minimum living income will reach all those who need it and who are in social exclusion and poverty in this country, the only thing you answered was that management had been a success and that you did not intend to take any action. [[The Lord]] I am a Member who never throws the towel away and always tries to provide proposals and solutions that improve the quality of life of people, and that is what I am going to do today. 91% of the population below the poverty line did not receive this income on the basis of the minimum living income management balance. The budget provided for is EUR 1 billion. Is it true that, with the situation in this country, 1000 of the millions planned have not been executed? All this information, and what I am going to give you now, comes out in the report of FOESSA and of Spanish Caritas that we have known this month, which state that of the 850,000 households initially planned to benefit from the minimum living income, to September 2021 only reached 316,903 households, only - and I stress - 37% of those initially planned; an average of two people benefited by every ten people in severe poverty in Spain, according to FOESSA and Caritas. I repeat to you, Minister, these are not my data; they are from FOESSA and Caritas. Let us now turn to the reasons for this situation. First, the precipitation of the legal norm, requirements and bureaucracy meant the exclusion of a significant percentage of people. We warned him, but he did not listen, and then, as we were right, three subsequent corrections were made. But what happened? Those who had been refused and now met the requirements were not notified, were not reviewed ex officio and were re-requested for a new application by those who learned and new documentation. Do you know that there are people who have submitted up to twelve applications - at least in the Canary Islands, where I have the exact data - and have been asked again for all the updated documentation in each of them? But do you not realize the chaos and the supplication that this entails for citizens and officials? It's funny, because I've read in some medium that you have an interest in locating people who don't know the existence of minimum living income and that for that your ministry is going to hire a company to do surveys and locate them. Really, Minister? If you have them in the files filed in your offices, thousands of people were refused. Call those people and, at least, resolve them immediately. Second theme. There are people who were denied and lucky enough to get a lawyer, take him to court and get a favorable sentence from the social courts after a year, but you automatically resort to the higher courts of justice of the autonomous communities and leave the citizen without even paying the benefit more time, subjecting himself to a calvary that takes year and a half. I have the name I gave you the other day, which you have not even wondered: Victor Acosta, a palm tree with a child, has that calvary. Third issue: the digital divide. The Government is mobilizing for the exclusion of the digital divide in the financial sector and banks, including through legal regulations and, in addition, as a political priority of several ministers. However, they do not do so in the management of basic benefits in sectors far from digital tools such as exclusion, poverty and the elderly. I tell you again, in case you haven't read it, what the FOESSA report says The pandemic has uncovered a new factor of social exclusion: digital disconnection, the new illiteracy of the 21st century. Half of the socially excluded households suffer from digital blackout, which means that 1 800 000 households are in this situation on a daily basis, particularly affecting people over the age of sixty-five. An analysis is also carried out by autonomous communities, detecting that inequality also has territorial impact, giving the highest rates in the Canary Islands. That is why, as the former director of social security in Las Palmas said - retired already - telematics management must be an alternative, but not an imposition. It is therefore essential to have sufficient staff to make face-to-face appointments and that people who need them can be served in the offices. I will tell you what the situation of the Canary Islands, which I know, is, but I believe that in the rest of Spain we are more or less the same. The queues start at five in the morning and can reach two hundred people: older, pregnant, standing, in the weather or in the sun; people who have to process their retirement, maternal discharges, other types of benefits and minimum living income. Most of the days are attended to only twenty or twenty-five people and the rest leave and have to go through this infamous situation again for days and days. For this reason, the trade unions in the Canary Islands have mobilized by demanding solutions and, in addition, by bringing to all political forces in the Canary Islands and citizens the situation of the third world and denigrating for the citizens living in these offices. They have proposed solutions, some of which I am going to comment on and which, by the way, were unanimously approved in the Parliament of the Canary Islands, urging all the Canarian political forces to the Government of Spain to adapt the employment relationship, to the urgent recruitment of temporary workers, to the reservation of places in the national calls for deficit territories and to the existence, in addition, of a reserve exchange. At the moment, the staffing deficit in the Canary Islands is around 30%. And, look, minister, it's not just you that gets your eyes covered, but 'The Director of Social Security in the Canary Islands says there is no 'caos' and will not act to improve management', periodicalCanarias7, but it is in all media in the Canary Islands. [[shows the photocopy of a news]] And, for the most part, he says, in a report that he has sent to you in Madrid, that all the people who come to the offices are cared for and justify the queues at the door. As you will understand, as a result of this unacceptable declaration, all the unions have requested your resignation and also, in passing, yours. But not only that, but they are being mobilized before the delegation and sub-delegations of the Government in the Canary Islands, supported by hundreds of citizens, media and canarian political forces, all from Podemos to VOX, from the People's Party to the Canary Coalition and New Canarias. Today I remember a conversation in your office at the beginning of the legislature, when you were still listening, that you said you would never give in to the management of minimum living income either to the autonomous communities or to the municipalities, as I proposed. You have dedicated yourself to saying that in the municipalities you do not want it, and that is false. The municipalities agree to manage the minimum living income, but ask that they be given the human and material means they need to do so. Maybe thousands of small townships don't need staff reinforcement, but the big ones do. Just like certain entities and NGOs that have so far not signed the agreements with you because they have not resolved the agreements for the material and human means. Only in some case has the Red Cross done it. You didn't have the means to manage this benefit, but they tried to get a little political. However, the only way we can fight poverty in this country and meet the expectations that we all create with this income for people who are in poverty and who have suffered worse since the arrival of the pandemic was to bring it closer to the nearest administration, with greater knowledge of the conditions of each family and each person and that we can allow face-to-face attention to overcome this digital gap that we have talked about, which also affects emptied Spain and isolated Spain. That is why I ask you to reflect, to listen to the trade unions, to listen to the political forces, that the only thing we want to do is to improve the situation and that all these hundreds of families, who could have a more dignified life with that income, can access it. That is why we also want an explanation of why it transfers to the Basque Country and Catalonia the management of the minimum living income indefinitely and this proposal has not been put forward for the rest of the autonomous communities with the same assessment of material and economic means. Therefore, he asked: will you give in under the same conditions and with the same assessment of the transfer of means as to the Basque Country the management of the minimum vital income to the rest of the autonomous communities? Or do you consider that the rest of the autonomous communities are not trained because officials and politicians are in another category? Or is it that you are ceding the management of minimum vital income to the Basque Country and Catalonia because they are counter-performances to maintain your government? I think this kind of thing needs to be known by public opinion and this Congress of Deputies. I look forward to your reply now, Minister, but I would like to tell you that I trust you will not tell me again that you will not correct anything, that everything is a success and that the Canary Islands Coalition has managed the integration income in the Canary Islands, as you said the other day. It's just that you're new and maybe you don't know - and I'm going to make it clear - that for the past eleven years, nine years has been the PSOE in the Canary Islands government, yes, sharing responsibilities, and that for the last six years, for the past four years, the Council of Social Services has been managed by a PSOE advisor and one from Podemos. Let us talk about what belongs to your ministry, this government and this Congress, and let us stop with frivolous answers, which have nothing to do with the issue we are raising. I'm waiting for your answers. I believe that in the Canary Islands those 300,000 people at risk of exclusion and poverty, those social security officials, who can no longer, demand a serious and non-frivolous response. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u136	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u137	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Oramas, I am very sorry that, on such an important and sensitive subject as minimum income and the fight against poverty, interventions are made, first of all, which reveal a palmary ignorance of the norm and of how it is unfolding and, secondly, which have elements, sincerely, very demagogic. Demagogying poverty, demagogying the most vulnerable people for political harassment is not right for me. I will start with the point where you have finished, which is that of the possibility that certain elements of minimum living income will be assumed by the autonomous communities. You voted for that rule, didn't you, Mrs. Oramas? And in voting in favour, he voted in favour of the fourth additional provision and the fifth additional provision. The fourth additional provision provides for the possibility of agreeing with the Autonomous Communities to take on certain aspects of the management of minimum living income. We have offered it to all the Autonomous Communities, all the Autonomous Communities know of that possibility and there are some who have chosen to address us - and we are working with three, four or five of them - and there are some who are still thinking about it and are seeing how they are going to develop it. That option is therefore available to all Autonomous Communities, Mrs Oramas, all of them. And it depends on the rhythm to which each autonomous community is adapting its norm, etc., in order to be able to go in that direction; that is, it is a sovereign decision. So, what you just said here is false, I repeat, is false. You voted in favour of the mechanism by which it is being done. You also voted in favour, Mrs Oramas, of the fifth additional provision, which establishes, precisely because of the foral singularity of Navarre and the Basque Country, that things must be done in a different way, because the minimum income vital - you have to know it - requires a cross of income and continuous heritage, and that in the Basque Country and Navarre is a competition that the foral deputies have. That's why the crossing has to be done by them, for that reason simply. Therefore, on an issue like this, so sensitive, when you come here, learn well what you have voted for and do not come and say these things, which are completely wrong and confusing to everyone. And it is that the minimum living income was approved here - if I remember correctly - without votes against, it is a historical deployment, and at the moment it reaches 965 000 people in Spain. Do you think that with the harshness of the pandemic - and that is the exercise to be done - what would have happened if those 965 000 people had not arrived? We have to do the counterfactual analysis, we have reached 965 000 people with minimum living income, it is a fairly high percentage, sincerely, and we have had a pandemic with an extraordinary impact. Without that security network that we quickly developed, we would not have reached those 965 000 people. That national network did not exist and there have been years and decades. You have been asking the European Commission and you have been asking, above all, the People's Party in 2016, 2017, 2018, when you were supporting yourself here. Please, really, let's not misrepresent and come up with this kind of demagogic approach. The minimum living income is being successfully deployed, reaching households that needed it and were not covered. We are fulfilling and we are very proud to have arrived in these twenty-one months of deployment, which is a very short period of deployment for a benefit of these characteristics, to almost one million people and to be now protecting themselves; moreover, to a very high percentage of women and a very high percentage of children, because 25% of the beneficiaries of the minimum living income are single-parent families, nine out of ten are women. We're protecting those people who weren't protected and who haven't been protected in the past by anyone. From the first moment we knew that the work was not finished here, in the start-up of the income. I was starting a job that really is huge, to mobilize social security workers across the country. The National Social Security Institute has had to process more than 1,650,000 vital minimum income files in 21 months. Do you know what it's like to process 1,650,000 files? Certainly not, but it is well known to those who have experience in administrative management and know what it is to manage dossiers of such complexity as these are. That is why it has taken so long for the autonomous communities, for so many decades, to deploy the minimum living income, that is why it takes so long in the autonomous communities - uniquely in the Canary Islands, during the period you were - to manage the non-contributory pensions that we passed in the mid-1990s. Do you know how long it took to manage a non-contributory pension in the Canary Islands until 2018? Think about it, then we'll talk about it if you want. Twenty-one months of work with the municipalities. Of course we're working with the municipalities. Look, municipalities collaborate with minimum living income and NGOs, associations of the third sector of social action, and do so as they have never done in any benefit. Town halls can accredit situations of special vulnerability, they can accompany social workers, beneficiaries of minimum living income. This route is legally open and is already being used. But for the first time in Spain there is a benefit that has never done any Autonomous Administration, no Local Administration, no. I mean, we already have Caritas and we already have the Red Cross in the register of collaborating associations in the minimum vital income in Social Security. This allows them to certify situations of particular vulnerability and bring us to those beneficiaries, and that - let us say - is sufficient in the administrative process; then we have to make other checks. This has never been done in Spain, Mrs Oramas, ever; really, never. If not, give me an example of some Administration in Spain, I no longer say Canary, some municipality that allows for a benefit to serve the certificate of Caritas, Red Cross or a non-governmental organization that is registered to collaborate with a benefit. There is no such thing, Mrs. Oramas; there is no such thing. [[The lady]] I've explained it several times, but I'll do it one more time. Unlike other policies, deploying a benefit such as minimum living income is not easy at all. And it has been so many years to deploy it primarily for two reasons. First, because their recipients suffer conditions that make them prone to exclusion for multiple reasons, many of them find it difficult to access benefits that they are not entitled to, do not have sufficient information, actually, or do not have the resources to contact the Administration. That is why we have launched all these special actions. In the case of minimum living income, we knew it from the very beginning. As for what we are doing right now, does it seem to you wrong?Does it seem to you wrong that we are using the administrative records that we have to check for those who have not come either by NGOs, by the municipalities, or by any means and that - this is also absolutely innovative - we are crossing the administrative records that we have of people who, by the data we have, might not have received the minimum income vital and that we are calling them to agree with them? This has never been done in Spain. Do you think it's wrong for us to do that, Mrs. Oramas? I just don't understand it, I really don't understand it. Anyway, Mrs. Oramas. Indeed, you will have seen many times that I compare the living income of these twenty years with the autonomous income for decades. I sincerely believe that this comparison is very important, and not because I believe it is useful to judge and the 'and you more' between political leaders. It is not because of this, but because an adult citizen deserves that politicians speak with data, that we put in perspective the achievements and that they know, in the best possible way, how the administrations that serve them work. Citizens have the right to assess how others have done it and how they do it now by facing exactly the same problems. Well, citizens have the right to know how Canaries, a community ruled by their party for almost thirty years, had tried to tackle the problem of severe poverty with its autonomous minimum income programme. In January 2007, the Canary Islands passed Law 1/2007, which regulated the canary integration benefit. This benefit - and I read Article 1 textually - said: It will provide economic aid that will receive the name of basic economic aid, the purpose of which is to provide coverage for the basic needs of those who, because they lack material resources, are in a situation of greater social inequality than the average of the Canarian population. It was certainly an ambitious goal, Mrs Oramas. When your party left power in the Canary Islands - twelve years after the adoption of this law and having suffered the Archipelago, like the whole country, the biggest economic and social crisis in our democracy - do you know how many canaries received that basic economic aid? Six thousand, Mrs. Oramas. The Canary Islands that lacked material resources and were in a situation of greater inequality were six thousand. And it wasn't a funding problem. The Canarian Government then had a considerable fiscal laxity, it was the autonomous community with a greater fiscal surplus. The resources existed, but in the Canary Islands, for some mysterious reason, there were not only vulnerable households or, more likely, the unwillingness or capacity to bring this benefit to the Canary Islands who needed it. Twelve years after the passing of the law. Let's see what happens to the minimum living income twenty-one months later, just twenty-one months later. It reaches more than 20,000 canary households in which fifty thousand people live; fifty thousand, compared to six thousand, have already reached the minimum living income. The amount allocated in the Canary Islands in 2021 to the minimum living income benefit amounted to EUR 103 million. In total, about 145 million of the public budget for vulnerable households. I've never invested that much before. I think it's fair to say. How many millions have you spent, Mrs. Oramas? We're going to see him, he's going to tell us now, right? All right. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you're pathetic, but not just that. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] It is an infamy that you, when I ask you what is going to be of the people who are entitled to their minimum living income and have not arrived to them, do not tell me one thing. You, in order to be able to correct, the first thing you have to do is recognize the things that are wrong. I asked him about the digital divide, I asked him about 30% of the offices in the Canary Islands. Go there at five in the morning, what a personal lack! Of course I agree that it should be transferred to the autonomous communities, but that was not my question! My question is whether you are going to transfer it under the same material and human conditions as the Basque Country and permanently to the rest of the autonomous communities. Of course that's what I asked you and you didn't answer me! Don't manipulate things! It's a frivolous! Of course I supported minimum living income! Do you know what you've done in those 12 minutes? Say what you've done. And you know what I was asking you? That how you could reach people who have not accessed the minimum living income and it belongs to you. They're people who win it at the Social Court a year later, and you go back to the High Court of Justice; people who've had to file the application twelve times; people who don't know they've refused it and now it's up to them. [[applause]] Did you say how you're going to cover the templates in the Canary Islands? Did you say what you're going to do to bridge the digital divide of people who can't do it face-to-face? Of course it is very good for the people to whom it has reached, of course it is very good that there is the minimum vital income that previously did not exist, of course it is very good to give it to the autonomous communities and to those municipalities in which it is possible! But what I'm asking you is what measures you're going to put in place so that the three hundred thousand canaries and more than a million people in Spain with their minimum living income can receive it, and that is an effort by the country and its ministry. And you come here to talk to me about the Canary Coalition in 2007, when in the last five years the advisors have been from Podemos and the PSOE; for the last eleven years, nine years have been with the PSOE. Of course there is poverty in the Canary Islands, structural poverty! But today I don't come to talk about the Canary Islands or how the government manages, whether it's PSOE or Podemos; I come to talk about its management, which is harmful, and if not, they're cheating on it. Meet with the staff board and the trade unions of the Canary Islands, go to the offices of the Canary Islands. It's unworthy: people with sticks, pregnant, from five o'clock tomorrow to the bachelor! This is covered by the media: the Canarian Television, which is not suspicious; the SER Chain, which is not suspicious; National Radio, which is not suspicious. Unworthy! Third worldist! The people who need it the most! Do you know - you have been talking about non-contributory pensions - that now, with this chaos, the people who process their pension have gone from one month to three months to receive it? And so with the rest of his ministry's benefits. Do you know what I'm telling you? You remain happy and continue to say that it is a success, but I am going to fight here, with the motion next week, so that all political forces will put solutions; so that not only the three hundred thousand people in the Canary Islands who are in poverty can access the minimum living income, and also in an easy way, so that you do not resort, so that you review on your own initiative, so that you tell the people who have been denied that it is now theirs and so that it is not a supplication because you have to present twelve times all the papers. Next week we vote on the motion and let's see what all the political forces say. I'm not criticizing you. What I am asking you to do is that this ministry pulls the net and does things so that, in this situation of poverty, which has worsened with the COVID and is now going to worsen with the rise of light and everything, among all the political forces, among all the administrations, we can reach those who most need it, who are people in situations of exclusion and poverty. If you continue with that story, tell it to the three hundred thousand canaries and to the more than one and a half million people to whom the minimum living income is due and has not reached them. You continue to be happy with your figures, with your statistics, with which there is no lack of staff and everyone knows it and doing surveys to look for people who have a vital minimum income, but all you have to do is give it to the people who refused it, because those people do not read the official newsletter. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well, Oramas!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u141	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Oramas, not by intensifying the demagogic tone, not by squealing a lot, not by disqualifying, you're going to be right, no. [[Applauds]] It seemed to me your disconcerting tone and, again, full of falsehoods, Mrs Oramas, and not remembering what your trajectory is. Obviously, there is a staff problem in Social Security. Of course there is, and particularly in the Canary Islands, and of course there has been. Do you know when that problem was set up? For in seven years of freezing and not replenishing the squares. Perhaps it could be justified in 2012 and perhaps it was justifying in 2013; but in 2017, in 2018, Mrs Oramas, was it justified in the budgets of the state that you support here, in this House? Was it justified, Mrs Oramas, to continue to completely freeze the Social Security staff? Was it justified, Mrs. Oramas? [[Applauds]] You voted on those budgets and sought the freezing of the templates that have now enshrined this situation. Since we've arrived we've been covering squares desperately, but we have to call up oppositions, we have to look for sites. We have already put over a hundred seats in the Canary Islands - a hundred - but the hole is huge, and to that hole you contributed with your votes, Mrs Oramas. [[Applauds]] I've been to all the social security offices in the Canary Islands, even in La Palma; I've been to all of them, I don't think it was you, I have. And I have met with the officials, and have argued with them, and have seen their shortcomings. Of course I've been there! Of course! You, for what you're telling here, it's clear you haven't been. He's talking about ears, clearly. I've been there. [[Applauds]] Look at you, a sacred principle, what you are doing is truly unworthy and petty with social security officials. Do you know that social security officials ensure continuity of income? That is, when you retire, the benefits are solved in 13 days - and so it remains in the Canary Islands -; in 13 days: you finish your job and the following month you have your benefit, and that continues to happen with the pensioners of the Canary Islands, of course. But let's find a comparison. You know that non-contributory pensions are managed by the autonomous community. If you have bad luck in life, Mrs Oramas, of not having a contributory pension but not a contributory pension, you no longer go through social security officials, you go through the autonomous community. And in the years 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2014, do you know that the Canarian community was the most delayed community in non-contributory pension payments? Not a month, not two months, nine months in 2018! Nine months! [[Applauds]] That is, if you have a disability, you are not entitled to a contributory benefit and you have to go to the non-contributory, in 2018 you had to wait nine months. [[Rumors]] I find it unworthy that this should happen. And you know what happens? Since the Canary Coalition government - I have the numbers - has not improved. Do you know that during your time you did not supplement non-contributory pensions, which many autonomous communities do? The Canary Islands Government is doing it now, of course it is! It's just that not everyone who governs does it with the same sensitivity. One thing is demagogy and another is the facts. When you have been in government there you have done nothing to support the Canaries, the vulnerable Canaries: non-contributory pensions; the basic canary income, which you have not developed, which we or the Canaries Government have had to arrive now. It's just not the same thing that rules a right-wing party as a progressive party. [[Applauds]] A progressive party fully supports vulnerable people, Mrs Oramas! [[The applause continues]] I didn't want to get angry, but truly when I see this demagogy and with that trajectory, with that backpack so big that you have, I hear you say the things you have said in this rostrum, I can honestly only be outraged because it is truly a fault of truth and a fault of history. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Oramas, I ran out of time, but I would have liked to give you more data, because the data is overwhelming, Mrs. Oramas. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect the Spanish borders in Ceuta and Melilla. [[File number 172/000178]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u143	Next, urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect the Spanish borders in Ceuta and Melilla. For your defence, Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, this urgent inquiry could have been carried out a month ago, six months ago, eight months ago, a year ago, two years ago and, sadly, if you continue in the government it would be repeated in two, six or eight months, or one year, and it would be worse and worse. We have already talked about this, we have already denounced this, but I will only refer to what has happened - and hence its urgency - in the last week. When Mr Sánchez taught us about the importance in defending the borders of Europe, when he denounced the illegitimate invading aggression of the satrap Putin, only Santiago Abascal - president of the political party that is already Spain's second political force in intent to vote - denounced what was happening at the same time on the borders of Spain: an assault of 2500 illegal immigrants, 450 of whom managed to enter. Meanwhile, her representative, the government delegate in Melilla, was calmly gathered to teach the Civil Guard commanders gender ideology lessons. [[Applauds]] What a big issue when they're assaulting a border! The next day, the minister, on Thursday last week, had already bet 4,000 illegal immigrants on the mountains of Morocco, on the Gurugu. From that assault of 1200 they managed to enter about 400. And just yesterday, Minister, they assaulted another 200 of those who managed to enter 50. Result: almost a thousand illegal immigrants have entered absolutely violently across the southern border of Spain, the southern border of Europe, in Melilla. There are half a hundred wounded agents and about 5000 white weapons have been collected by the State Security Forces and Bodies: iron forks, bars, chains, boats with live lime. Minister, I would like to speak today - not for you, who knows it perfectly well, but for the Spanish political and public opinion - on behalf of our group to denounce the ten flagrant lies to which your Government, the partners of your Government, the progress consensus and the media on pay of all of you reiterate over and over again. First great historical lie: Ceuta and Melilla are not Morocco. Ceuta and Melilla have never been Morocco and Ceuta and Melilla will never be Morocco, because before Morocco existed, specifically 541 years before Morocco existed, Ceuta was already part of the sovereignty and national territory, and 460 years before Morocco existed, Melilla was already a Spanish city. [[applause]] Second big lie. It is not true that they are peaceful refugees, they are violent young people. They are not women, they are not children, they are not elderly; they are young violent perfectly organized who assault with rusty and sharp iron claws, with chains, with iron bars, with live lime. They are not, as we are unfortunately seeing, poor Ukrainians who fled, women, children, elderly and sick, from the invasion of Putin's communist satrap. [[Applauds]] They are perfectly organized young men of military age. [[The lady]] Third big lie. It is not true that Morocco cooperates. That's not true. Morocco is preparing and organizing the assaults as it pleases it, according to two clear objectives. The first - you know it well, Minister - is economic blackmail to Spain. Every time he pressures Spain, they run out of the government to offer new sums of money, such as the 30 million euros paid to him last year -30 million euros - when there was an assault of 10 000 illegal immigrants in Ceuta or the 26 million that they have just approved for off-road vehicles for the Moroccan government after the last assaults at the border. And the second objective is the demographic pressure they carry out on Spanish cities to achieve an invasion by substitution, so that there will come a time when the number of Moroccans in those cities is higher than that of Spaniards and to claim as their own cities that are not. The CNI has already told us in a report, which you know so well: Morocco does not cooperate, it is a latent threat. Fourth big lie. It's not true that we have a secure border. Only 850 meters from the 12 kilometers of the border of Melilla have the height of 10 meters and the sufficient control systems that avoid the jumps. Those famous inverted combs that were going to put as a mid-coastal in the rest of kilometers have been put only in one part and in all the places where they are missing is where they have jumped. In addition, you know that there is a budget of 32 million euros. What are they waiting for to execute him? With 32 million euros, the Spanish border between Melilla and Ceuta would be almost entirely shielded. [[Applauds]] I say 32 million when I just mentioned that almost 50 million have been given to the Moroccan satrap. Fifth lie. It is not true that our agents are sure, as much as you run down to take the picture with them: neither the Civil Guard, nor the National Police, nor even the local police. They have insufficient human resources, even if you send in timely reinforcements. There is no permanent supply; they do not have riot control material; they do not have vehicles with a water launcher; they do not have the appropriate vests or regulatory helmets - not a 20-year-old helmets that break, as we could see, at the first blow with a chain -; they do not have passive safety; they do not have adequate vests or anti-corruption material. That's why there are fifty officers injured. Friday. It is not true that they are humanitarian NGOs. They are part of the human trafficking mafia, that mafia you know, that in Africa collects huge amounts of money from immigrants before the jump and their families, in debt for life. And then there are the pseudo-NGOs on the other side, doing the effect called and charging for every emigrant they pick up at the border. There's a business on one side of the border and a business on the other side. They are the same, the same NGOs that I could see the other day in Melilla, bet on a small mountain, waiting for the place of the jump, because they know it perfectly, and photographing and filming the actions of the agents, who then properly cut, filtering to the media only the part that interests them, that is, when the agents defend themselves from the brutal aggression that they are suffering with forks. [[applause]] They are the same, Minister, the same pseudo-NGOs that pressure governments to empty Melilla's CETI; yes, the one they emptied a little while ago. Do you remember? Two unprotected ships that left the port of Melilla and went to the port of Malaga, opened the door and released them there without any police control. Do you remember? It was 1500. You've emptied the CETI. I was there and the workers told me: as soon as they empty the CETI, there will again be assaults. That said and done, at two weeks they were jumping. That's the business they have, that's the effect called. Seventh lie. It is not true that the Armed Forces cannot have a very necessary and very proportional participation. The Armed Forces, Minister - you know it too, I have been told by the military commanders, the police commanders -, regularly receive mass control courses, have anti-disturbing material and are perfectly prepared, in the Navy Infantry, in Regulars, in the Legion. Why don't you give the order so there's 1500 or 2,000 soldiers with anti-disturbing material helping in the jump? [[Applauds]] Eight. It is not true that Ceuta and Melilla are protected by our allies in the North Atlantic Treaty. It's not. And when we have recently requested in the Senate that a petition be made for its inclusion under the umbrella of Article 6 of the North Atlantic Treaty, they have voted against his Government and all the partners of his Government. It is not true that the Armed Forces, on just reciprocity with their NATO partners, are fulfilling the commitments of the Cardiff Summit to maintain a 2% defence budget. Do you know what Morocco is in? Yes, you do. It already carries 3.2% of annual gross domestic product in defence expenditure. Do you know where Spain is? You know that, too. We don't get to 1.02% a year. Faced with this violation of our defence capacity, the enemies of Spain are also exploited. Nine great lie. It is not true that the media - neither the 1, nor the 2, nor the Fourth, nor the Sixth, nor any -, with the exception of many exceptions, are telling the truth. They manipulate the images, they take out only the court that interests them, they never take out when the agents are assaulted and wounded. And I ask you here publicly, Minister, to give the order that always - not only when the situation is overrun - all the images of the fixed video towers on the borders of Ceuta and Melilla, which take out the helicopters of Civil Guard and National Police, and especially that it equips all the agents of individual GoPro cameras so that they can film all the performances. Tenth lie, Minister. It is not true that illegal immigration is good for Spain. That's not true. They don't come to pay our pensions, they cost us a fortune. [[applause]] They don't bring wealth. They don't pay taxes. They destabilise the labour market. But that's what the mafias are interested in, because that's how they have cheap labor to work in the field, to work in the industry. They are the new slaves of the 21st century. In addition, Minister, the public services of the Spaniards are saturated: hospitals, health centres are saturated, public security services are saturated because these public security services are needed. The issue of illegal immigration is being addressed and other issues, such as insecurity on the streets, are being neglected. In addition, they generate insecurity. And finally, social services are also saturated. Do you know what is true, Minister? Do you know what a fine truth is that neither your media nor your political propaganda will ever be able to shut up? That you are doing a so-called brutal effect that is calling on the whole of Africa to storm the border, that you are unprotecting the borders of Spain and that you have therefore unprotected the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. The Minister for the Interior then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u146	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, let me mention, Mr Ortega Smith - as I told Mr Gil Lázaro this morning - that I see you with a disturbing bellicose tone, the contagion of certain policies such as those of Putin seems to satisfy you. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I do not recommend you after listening to you today to visit Poland or neighbouring countries with Ukraine, perhaps you will receive as Salvini yesterday, his good friend Salvini, who also knows about migration policy. [[applause]] Having said that, we have become accustomed to the fact that every week the VOX Parliamentary Group takes advantage of its initiatives in this House and its speaking shifts to bring to the public debate the only thing that the far right can actually contribute: lies and hatred. Yeah, lie and hate. In all your initiatives, whether written, oral in the Commission, oral in plenary or in any kind of debate, you make a speech of hatred, pointing out those who think differently, criminalization of vulnerable and continuous groups and constant disrespect. You - yes, you; the 52 Members who represent the extreme right in this House - practice a lying narrative portraying a country - perhaps it is the country you want - in which those of us who inhabit it spend the day confronted, we live in resentment and we feel afraid of everything that is different. And look, realize, wake up, fortunately Spain, our country - that flag they love so much - and the values of this society are much more than theirs. [[Applauds]] And also, fortunately, neither this minister nor either of the two parliamentary groups of the government, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the United Parliamentary Group We can, we will allow you to set up your speech of hatred and lies; simply, we will not allow you to engage in a public debate in our country lacking the necessary truth. Because, ladies and gentlemen, miserably public debate is what you always do: lying. To lie about demonizing immigration and migrants - as you have done today - only because they are often vulnerable people, when we are faced with a tremendously positive phenomenon if it is, of course, regular and negative, if it is illegal, but not because I say so, but because it is credited with reports from the Economic and Social Council or various financial institutions. Lying about invasions, massive arrivals, unsafe borders; lying simply to generate hatred and fear. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat to you the same information I have given before to my opponent of every Wednesday: the Spanish borders are secure and irregular immigration means - please note, Mr Ortega Smith - 0.0021% of the total number of entries in our country; I repeat, 0.0021%. Is that the invasion you narrate? Is that the massive risk you warn us of, 0.002 people out of 100? Stop insulting our intelligence, as they usually do; leave it now because, in addition to lying, it is very bad for them. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, miserably the public debate is also trying, as you do whenever you have occasion from your hate speech, to link immigration with insecurity. I'd ask you if you can prove that relationship to a minimum empirically. I'm going to tell you something simple: not because you can't. As I told you this morning, in Melilla, since this government, President Sánchez's government, crime has dropped 17 points. You cannot, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, for a simple reason as I come to say to you: because you lie. And I will give you another data, on this occasion of the statistical system of crime: 80% of arrests for criminal offences are of Spanish nationals, like you and I. Read the data and then be sufficiently informed. And miserably the public debate is also his constant denunciation based on lies about the abandonment of the State Security Forces and Bodies - as he has done today - or the lack of interest of the Government in the protection of the border perimeter - as he has done today - in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, lies to which we are accustomed. Although every time you try to patriminate the National Police, the Civil Guard, the Army, the reality, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the very clumsy reality finds that there is no abandonment of the State Security Forces and Bodies; there is no such abandonment. And I will not tire, however much you raise your voice, exaggerate, lie or persevere with such initiatives, I will not tire, I insist, of repeating to you to the satisfaction that in three years, together with the infrastructure plan, the renovation of equipment or the modernization of material means, this Government has created 10,000 net seats in the State Security Forces and Bodies. That is, every day this Government has created nine new Police and Civil Guard places, while Mr. Rajoy's previous governments destroy more than five places. But in the case of Ceuta and Melilla, for example, the Civil Guard occupation catalogue is above the national average. In addition, there are permanent reinforcements of the Reserve and Security Group unit, as well as seven rapid intervention modules, and I will tell you that, when there are extraordinary facts such as those we have lived, unfortunately, last week, reinforcement measures are taken, and there are the more than one hundred agents sent to Melilla the next day to strengthen the protection of the border perimeter. And if they can be sent is because there are more effective and better equipped. [[Applauds]] Make it clear, we will take the necessary steps because we will not tolerate - and this minister has said it on several occasions - a single act of violence against public employees protecting the border perimeter of Ceuta and Melilla. Therefore, in the same way that there is no abandonment of the Security Forces and Bodies, there is also no lack of interest in the protection of the border perimeter. First, because constant cooperation with countries of origin and transit is a line of work, in this case with Morocco - yes, with Morocco - and, secondly, because from a purely technical point of view, and you should know this, the Ministry of the Interior, under an agreement of the Council of Ministers of 18 January 2019, approved a plan for the modernization and improvement of the perimeter fence, and thanks to this plan more efficient structures are being installed that have technical measures in the field of closed television circuit, of sensorization of the fence for early detection and action against possible jumps. With this work, the second phase of which is under way and in three months that protection to which you referred will be completed, we are strengthening the intelligent character of our border perimeter in order to improve the safety of the people and public employees who protect it - our Security Forces and Bodies - and also to ensure greater efficiency, which had not been done in more than twenty years. We are protecting and carrying out the necessary works. Therefore, Your Honor, I summarize, because I believe it is important that the House and the public know some information: immigration is a positive phenomenon for our society when it is regular, legal and orderly, and this government fights against irregular immigration, and it does so effectively, clearly, which you do not do, but does not criminalise immigrants as you do, but rather fights against the mafias who traffic with human beings within illegal immigration. [[applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] And I repeat to you in this respect that any economic or social report - consult any report - agrees with these circumstances. Stop criminalizing immigrants, therefore, because they will have us in front of them whenever they do. Second, stop lying to the citizenry. Irregular immigration accounts for 0.0021% of admissions to Spain. There is no invasion, there is no mass entry, there is no unsafe borders, nor is there any link between immigration and insecurity. We lived in a safe country, and yesterday it was said in the Senate: since 2019 we have reduced the crime rate by five points, but it is also that 80% of those arrested for committing criminal offences are Spanish nationals. So lie less and prepare your interventions a little more. Finally, there is no abandonment of the State Security Forces and Bodies, and they know it perfectly well. There is a Government that is committed to improving the number of troops and improving their conditions, the means by which they work, including modernizing the border perimeter. Therefore - I finish now, President - there is nothing they say there is in Spain. Unfortunately, there is a party of the far right, with fifty-two seats, which has made hatred and lies its modus operandi, and with this lack of rigour, seriousness and sense of state they fail to fulfil the constitutional function of parliamentary representation that belongs to them. That is why, as you will continue to ask, I ask you to prepare yourselves, to inform yourselves, to document interventions and not to lie. Yesterday none entered, there was no jump, there was an attempt of more than a thousand and was obviously avoided by the cooperation and coordination of the Spanish and Moroccan security forces and bodies. I repeat, yesterday, as on Friday, there were two attempts that were avoided by the cooperation and coordination of our security forces and forces and security forces in Morocco. Stop lying and less hate speech. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u148	Thank you very much, President. For a moment I thought I was listening to the Australian Home Secretary talking about border security, that there are no massive assaults, that our agents are protected, that there is nothing to fear. [[applause]] You really can't have any more nerve when you come up to a rostrum. But I will tell you once again, Minister: you suffer from deep political deafness. But how dare you - after I have manifested it twice here, our president four and every spokesman who has intervened in any matter - how dare you again bring out the stupidity, the stupidity and the palmery lie, that we applaud the invasion of Ukraine by Putin's communist satrap! But how dare you! To be told is to the communist ministers of his Government, who are trying to protect Putin. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] To be told is to the Secretary of State of his 2030 Agenda, which ruins farmers, meets with Maduro and supports satraps dictators like Putin. So stop making it up. But you have a handheld, which takes you there, and it doesn't matter what we talk about. Take page one and start: because the far right... You've said it five times. Look, if we are the far right - you know well that we are not - you are the ultra stupidity, the high treason, the ultra lie, the ultra cynicism and of course, several of your group and who support you, the ultra communism and the ultra left. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] Minister, do you know what's going on? That there has been a time when that far right has applauded you, when you have said the only truth in your whole speech, copying us: that the only legal immigration is the only good immigration, the one that comes to the house knocking on the door, the one that meets the legal requirements, the one that does not hit the agents, the one that does not assault the border, the one that does not pull lime alive, the one that has not been imposing its criterion by force. That, that legal immigration, of course, that's the one we applaud, the one that comes to generate wealth. [[Applauds]] And, by the way, the only one who as a sovereign nation has the right to say when, how many and who enter, not the outside mafias who will tell us what immigration has to enter, how much it has to enter and when it has to enter. That is the difference between those who believe in the sovereign nation and the rule of law and those who are on their knees before the dictates of the globalists. [[Applauds]] You have repeated to the satiety that you will not tolerate. Look, I'd like to hear from you, now when I come up, that you publicly assume this commitment: I'm not going to tolerate Morocco any more collaboration with the assaults. He won't get a euro or a million more if he allows the assaults again. Secondly, I am not going to tolerate another day without the entire Melilla fence having the 10 meters - which is only 850 linear meters - and I am going to build that useful, necessary and waterproof fence. Thirdly, I will not tolerate another day when my National Police and Civil Guard officers are unprotected. I'm gonna give you the best stuff on the market in helmets, vests, vehicles. I will not tolerate again that they are forbidden to use the anti-disturbing material; they will be able to use tear gas, they will be able to use rubber balls, they will be able to use trucks throw water, all the anti-disturbing material that is used around the world to contain the massive assaults. [[Applauds]] I will not tolerate - say it, if you dare, say it - that not a single illegal immigrant who violently assaulted the border can stay in Spanish territory; we speed up all legal procedures for him to be returned to his country of origin. That's what we want to hear from the Spaniards, that's what we want to hear from the agents and professionals who fight against the traffic mafias and the assaults. [[Applauds]] But, Minister, if you don't care what I can tell you, you don't care what I can explain to you. Let's see if you explain to the Spaniards whether carrying these sharp-tipped iron forks that clave into our agents can be considered a legal and peaceful immigration. [[the samples]] [[Protests]] Three thousand of these hooks have entered Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u149	Mr. Ortega...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u150	These steel hooks, Minister, not the propaganda of your government and that of your media and your transmission straps and the collection of palm trees that applaud you every time you say...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u151	One moment, Mr. Ortega Smith.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u152	I'm done, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u153	No, just a moment, please. I give you the floor right now. [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. [[Several Members: How did you get in with a gun?- Mr Espinosa de los Monteros De Simon: Are they weapons?]] Señor Espinosa de los Monteros, be quiet. Mr. Ortega Smith, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the house of the word and, therefore, in the house of the word, as always, the word must be used to convince. Therefore, Mr Ortega Smith and others, when I preside this House will use the floor, because that is what the Spaniards of all of us really expect. Thank you very much. Go on, Mr. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u154	Thank you - and I finish -, Madam President. Look, when I announced to my colleagues: I'm going to show you an image so that all the Spaniards can see it, I said to them: You'll see how they're going to give us the truth. Thank you, Socialist Members, for saying: how did you enter the Chamber with a weapon? I mean, they're weapons! I mean, they're astounding! [[Several Members: Bravo!]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u155	To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Ortega Smith. Lie, falsehood, and hatred continue to roam, and I will repeat it whenever necessary. But I will tell you: have you heard the Minister of the Interior these days saying that a rule of law does not allow its borders to be violently attacked or that any agent is violently assaulted? Did you hear that? Well, that's it. I've seen him very angry at the replica, very, very angry and I'll tell him it seems like a real pose. When I talked about Ukraine and everything, I just gave her advice, a compatriot's advice. Seeing what has happened to Salvini and seeing his parallel stories, I said to him: Be careful; I advise you not to get too close because, even though you delete tweets - like the president of your party - of support for Putin, people have memory. [[Applauds]] Even if you don't believe it, people have memories and know who you identify with, who you have identified with, what discriminatory policies, LGTB phobias, etc., you identify with. [[Several Members: No, no]] Yes, yes, it will be the usual speech, but it is. They're an example of hate, an example of lying. The same falsehoods - I'm sorry -, the same arguments based on misrepresenting the data and the same common places as ever, every time you talk about security. They are repeated a lot, they are very little original and, by the way, they come to these unprepared debates, as I have told you. You present initiatives when you are given the floor, you applaud each other a lot but you offer nothing; you come up to this rostrum and take advantage of any subject we talk about in terms of security and you only talk about immigration, you are dedicated to talking about yourselves without any blush, of extraordinary situations, of the pain of the victims, to patrimonyizing the forces and security forces of the State. This is, seriously, your no respect for the parliamentary function as a third party in this House. But, if you insist, I insist, as I said before, and I insist more firmly because our values, the values of this government, the values of the parliamentary groups that support it are stronger and better. Yeah, better than yours. Immigration - I say again - is not a problem in itself, what is a problem is irregular immigration, the mafias that traffic with human beings. Your Honor, to keep talking about invasions and massive arrivals is nothing but an insult to intelligence, but it is also a real lie. As mentioned above, irregular entries account for only 0.0021% of total entries in Spain. You will see, Your Honor, that when we strengthen the agents with the hundred troops they were able to go it is because we are able to make a serious public offer in the state security forces and bodies, recovering the troops, and because we also make investments in infrastructures, in physical infrastructures of the perimeter but also in technological infrastructures, on an intelligent border. You, who have consistently voted against all the measures we have taken for the benefit of the state security forces and bodies, have voted against - and always - budgets in areas such as public employment offers, infrastructure and wage increases, because if it were for you, if there was a government to which VOX belongs, do you know what would happen in a complex situation like the one we have experienced this past week? I will tell you: there would be fewer, much less, to protect our borders; they would have much less means and worse infrastructures, do not doubt it, and, yes, they also work with worse working and remunerative conditions, because you talk a lot, as I always tell you, about the forces and bodies, but, really, how badly you want them, ladies and gentlemen of VOX! Therefore, dismantled, once again, your falsehoods, your purported truths, in that place there is only what remains always in you: there is only hatred, there is a lie. In the meantime, we are working to increase all the necessary and precise measures so that our agents - increasingly and better paid, better prepared and with more means in every way - can generate the security that all the Spanish citizens want - I finish already - and good proof of that is that, as I also said, in the last three years the crime rate in this country, in Spain, in our country has been reduced by five points, and that is because there is really serious work by all the public officials of this country and always, of course, by the means that this government, the government of President Sánchez, is giving them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u157	Thank you, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, to the Minister of the Interior to account for the successive attacks on the Valley of Melilla and the policy of his Ministry for the prevention and control of the situation. [[File number 172/000179]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u158	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the next item on the agenda, urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the Minister of the Interior to report on the successive assaults on the Melilla fence and on the policy of his ministry for the prevention and control of them. For your defence, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. First of all, I would like to convey from my parliamentary group our warmest message of thanks and respect and consideration to the security forces and bodies of the State, which provide the security of our borders in Ceuta and Melilla, and to their families. [[Applauds]] The efforts they make and the risks they take will never be sufficiently recognized and valued by all of us. [[The lady]] On the 17th and 18th of May 2021 - soon to be a year - we experienced a massive invasion, across the Spanish border with Morocco, in the city of Ceuta, which resulted in the entry of some 10,000 Moroccan citizens who subsequently created the consequent conflict of collapse of the City Administration and the General Administration of the State in its part of alienation. At that time, thanks to the determined action of our Euro-Lamentaries and the work of explaining the real situation in Ceuta, we obtained a unique support from the European Union, which was prepared to warn the Moroccan Administration of the inconvenience and the improper use of its citizens as a political base with which to pressure the Government of Spain, or any other of the European Union, to obtain from it a change in its position with regard to the administration of the territories of the Sahara, on that occasion. In those moments, subjected to the pressure of the human avalanche, we made a few purposes. We intend to build on the support of the European Union to promote a process of raising awareness within its institutions about the situation of our borders in Ceuta and Melilla as the external land borders of the European Union, seeking its support for their control. We intend to draw up a specific plan for both cities to respond to Morocco's use of stability in these cities in order to pressure the Spanish Government to take decisions in relation to these cities or on matters which have nothing to do with them. In fact, the Government included a reference in the preparation of this specific plan in the National Security Strategy, adopted in December 2021. For the moment, we only know the inclusion of the reference to both cities in the strategy. We also proposed to review the capacity of our state security forces and bodies in both cities to deal with these kinds of massive phenomena that, unfortunately, cannot be ruled out. Previously, the general budgets of the State for 2021 had allocated EUR 5 million for infrastructure at the Melilla border, with the aim, inter alia, of eliminating the concertine wire existing at its top in some sections and replacing it with a new inverted curved comb system that, by reducing its ability to cause harm to people, maintained its ability to make it difficult to overcome the obstacle. To this day, it seems, only seven of the twelve kilometers with which the fence in Melilla has been replaced, having eliminated the concertine of the whole of it. We would like the minister to clarify to us what has been the degree of implementation in this year of those 5 million euros for the modification of the border. There is a basic principle of the use of barriers to prevent access to areas that are intended to be preserved, which states that passive barriers, if not adequately complemented by active measures, are easily overflowable or unusable. On the last days 2, 3, 4 and 5 of March we experienced in Melilla several massive attempts of jumps of the fence with unequal result, being the most negative day the first of them, Wednesday 2, that came out with about 500 assailants entering the city, after having tried about 2500, having bragged of a singular violence. Around a hundred of the 500 assailants who managed to force the device resulted in injuries of varying consideration, attending the facilities of the Temporary Stay Center for immigrants in Melilla, not knowing the state of those who did not. For our part, the Civil Guard - the National Police, to a lesser extent, but substantially the Civil Guard - also recorded about fifty officers injured between the two most intense days, on 2nd and 3rd, because on day 3, of the 2000s that had failed to enter the previous day, 300 managed to do so. The following days, despite repeated attempts - it has been said on the 4th and yesterday - did not achieve their purpose, but managed to keep two more days in a state of maximum alert to the civilian guard and the national police force existing in the city. The professional associations of the Civil Guard and Police, as well as the corresponding chains of command of both bodies, have been requesting, for a long time, the revision of what they call the catalogues on the rise, on a permanent basis, in an amount of about 200 individuals for each of the security forces and bodies, of the Police and Civil Guard, in Melilla, in order to adapt adequately to the reality of the cities and their specific characteristics as a border city with significant migratory pressure. Instead, so far, as happened on day 3 - I traveled that day to Melilla and accompanied on the regular flight many national police officers who were travelling on day 3, after there were two jumps -, what is being done is the allocation of punctual reinforcements that are incorporated into the city at the time when the crisis has already been unleashed and remain in it until it has returned to a certain state of calm and normality in the fence. The equipment that equips the Civil Guard officers responsible, in the first instance, to deal with this type of assault is the usual one to guarantee their own personal physical protection; that is, helmets, vests, knee-dresses, spinners and defenses with which it is complicated, or rather impossible, to deal with massive jumps of these characteristics using a wide front. The perception of citizenship in Melilla is of absolute resignation and assumption of the inability of the authorities to preserve the integrity of the border without it being understood, at all, that Spain cannot guarantee it. Citizenship appreciates the efforts of the police, but considers them adequately sized and equipped. This does not add to the concern with which Morocco envisages the warning of the reopening of ordinary border crossings without the proper maintenance of its own infrastructure, which was closed on 13 March 2020, and its modernisation. Other areas are being modernised, but not the infrastructure that already existed. We are, once again, at the expense of when Morocco decides it is the day of reopening the border. For my previous professional activity - I spent seven years of the last ten years of my professional life as a member of the Melilla Armed Forces - I know something about the scenario in which the Armed Forces move, not the forces and security forces, but indirectly as well. As a result of this professional activity I have spent long periods of time in places, in countries that are the origin of emigration and I have obtained the impression from their local authorities, from their highest representatives, that until there are minimum conditions for the survival of young people in those countries there will be no interruption of these mass displacements across the land borders of all African countries which, by the nature of the terrain on which they are located, are far more permeable than the borders of the European countries we know; so reaching the European borders is painful and risky, but it is not physically impossible. That is why the People's Parliamentary Group proposed, without success, in the Commission on International Development Cooperation to pay special attention, in the so-called Africa Plan, to development cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of these migratory movements. In attendance in this House, a well-known NGO activist who is moving to Morocco in an organization called Ca Minando Frontieras, Helena Maleno, who is well acquainted with the State security forces and bodies in Ceuta and Melilla, said that we should bear in mind that, as a complement to the right to migrate that people living in places where their life expectancy is not enough, there is also a right not to migrate, that is, to be able to develop in their places of origin a vital project that does not force them to leave their land and to commit this type of action that we have witnessed and suffer from. It seems clear that from the first world we have ample opportunities to contribute to development cooperation so that this is possible. This is not the competence of the Ministry of the Interior - we know this - and that is why we also proposed the creation of an interministerial commission to deal with the problems inherent in the stability and sustainability of the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla from a multidisciplinary perspective, given that the problem of mass migration ends up being a problem of protection of borders and public order, but it has many other facets that should be analysed in a cross-cutting way. Since September 2020, the last Pact on Migration and Asylum, proposed by President Von der Leyen, has been under discussion in the European Union, with more pity than glory, but beset by the lack of agreement between the parties involved: on the one hand, the Member States, which are more sensitive than others to the proximity to borders - the furthest ones are less sensitive than those we have closer - and, on the other hand, the non-governmental organisations, which advocate greater permeability of borders. States are not prepared to indiscriminately admit this increased permeability of borders because it generates an adverse response from the general population. Included in this Pact on Migration and Asylum there is a prominent section to obtain Frontex's collaboration in controlling the external borders of the European Union to ensure the internal movement of persons and goods through the Schengen area. And here we are faced with a new problem, which is the lack of inclusion of the territories of the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla in the Schengen area, under the good-neighbourliness agreements between Spain and Morocco that have been observed and that are in force, having disappeared many of the circumstances that made it advisable to maintain them in the current terms. That is why we also envisage the need to analyse the desirability of strengthening our borders by reviewing the virtuality of these agreements. In our view, it is necessary in the current circumstances to include both territories in the Schengen area and to put an end to the current exceptionality, because I say that the circumstances that previously made it advisable have disappeared. While all these analyses and reviews take place, what seems to be peremptory and extremely urgent is to undertake the processing of the immediate expulsion files of those persons who have entered our country in an aggressive and violent manner without just cause, through a request for access to the status of asylum or refugee, seriously compromising the security of our public servants, while analysing the proper adaptation of the staff of the State security forces and bodies and the equipment of a collective nature, as well as the infrastructures to strengthen the security of our external borders. Likewise, we propose to promote actions to train the Armed Forces and to coordinate with the State security forces and bodies so that they can act in support of them when they require, because they are overcome, as happened in Ceuta in May 2021 and in Melilla a week ago. Pre-coordination mechanisms are absolutely essential. What is not to be received is that a part of the Spanish population in Ceuta, Melilla and also in the Canary Islands lives in the conviction that it lives in a coladero and that its authorities do not have the capacity to make this coladero a safe area. There are two fundamental political leaders in this: firstly, of course, the President of the Government and, secondly, you, Minister. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu. I sincerely thank you for the tone of your speech. I believe that something can change in migration policy and in the perception of migration policy in the People's Party. In that sense, even though I disagreed with what Melilla refers to - and I will tell you this - in the common migration policy, I did like to hear him talk about the Africa Plan, which is what we are working on in Europe: in this pact on migration and asylum; in the external dimension you were talking about, at least you see that you know and know where you should go; in working with countries of origin and transit; in cooperating with your development, what we call advancing borders, which are not necessarily forced to go out for a new life. Of course, this is a challenge between Europe and Africa, and there is the Spanish Government in the European Union working in that direction, working on parameters of solidarity and shared responsibility. If you want, one day we will discuss it expressly, because it is a really important and relevant issue of present and future for Europe and for Africa, necessarily, as I have repeated on several occasions. I was concerned at first about the interpellation, because it was like a repetition, as VOX's follow-up, both in today's questions and in the interpellations, but I recognize that extreme. I will tell you, the policy for the prevention and control of borders, in this case that of Melilla - as you ask and refer in your inquiry - is a concern of ours. The protection of our physical environment, border control, the regulation of migratory flows through the definition of orderly, regular and safe routes is one of the security priorities of this Government. And I put it this way in this House on 17 February 2020, when I presented the Ministry's general lines of action and I reiterated it, as I am sure you have heard, on several occasions when I was asked about it. In the specific area of the Autonomous City of Melilla, I would like to highlight three important lines of action in the area of border protection. The first, to attend immediately to the necessary modernization of the border perimeter. As I pointed out in the previous inquiry, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz, and I repeat in this one, on 18 January 2019 the Council of Ministers approved the Plan for the modernization and improvement of the perimeter fence, based on three important actions. Firstly, the installation of more efficient structures - you know them - which in three months will be completed; I tell you, in three months they will be completed. If you have been in Melilla and on the perimeter, you will have seen how the inverted combs are already to be placed in the missing part. Obviously, that's because you've been working from before. Secondly, the improvement of technical measures in the field of closed-circuit television. I am also convinced that you know the great investment that is being made and has been made in that matter, and I am sure you know the sentinel group, with the technological means they have and how they work and how they protect the border from that point of view as well. Thirdly, the sensorization of the fence with the aim of a rapid detection that facilitates the action of the forces and bodies of state security against possible jumps, and surely you also know it and are aware of the improvement that has materialized in these three years. And by the end of the year we'll have the smart border at Beni Enzar, by the end of the year we'll have a totally smart border at Melilla. The execution, as I told you, of the first phase in the two autonomous cities has been completed, and at the moment it is being completed, as you are also aware, in the city of Melilla, with the aim of equipping the entire fence of the city with the same security mechanisms. And in three months it will be. The second line of work is linked to the strategy of cooperation with countries of origin and transit, which has also resulted in an intensification and diversification of aid in police cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, bilateral cooperation with countries of origin and transit is a central aspect of the strategy of monitoring and managing flows, monitoring and border effectiveness, as you have said, but it also promotes the efficiency of the fight against organised crime, which deals with human beings, and is key to articulating the return of those in an irregular situation. Bilateral relations are therefore important. In this regard, I would like to recall that since 2018 the Ministry of the Interior has promoted an intense bilateral agenda, with more than twenty authorities and thirty international trips. I would like to highlight in this regard the work with Algeria, Senegal and Mauritania - all key partners in the migration area - Tunisia, the Gambia, Guinea Conakry, Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana and, of course, Morocco, with whose Minister of the Interior I have held more than a dozen meetings, and with whose authorities the Government is in constant contact. In all cases, I have met with presidents, prime ministers, vice-presidents and ministers who are willing to continue to cooperate with Spain and to put the means at their disposal to prevent the development of organizations that trade with people. Because, ladies and gentlemen, no African country wants this kind of irregular immigration for its young people, and that is why we will continue to work. And the third line of action has been based on strengthening the capabilities of the security forces and bodies through several key actions, as is certain, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz, you know. In this way, since 2018 we have promoted a policy of recovery of troops in the National Police and the Civil Guard. In December 2011, the number of agents was over 155,000; in 2017, the last full year of the People's Party government, this figure was 142 000. Thanks to three or four public employment offers with replacement rates above 125 %, we have been able to create, as I have repeatedly said, 10,000 net positions, an average of nine daily positions since June 2018. This troop recovery has been accompanied by the occupation of the Civil Guard post catalogue in the city of Melilla, as I have also explained, above the national average; the deployment of four rapid intervention modules in Melilla, whose main function is the surveillance of the border fence with Morocco, and cooperation with the Moroccan border authorities, primarily to control every attempt at jump, as we could see on Friday, as we could have seen yesterday, Tuesday, and, again, as in the jumps on Wednesday and Thursday, clearly reducing the number of possible people who could have crossed the border. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these three lines of action have had important results. They will certainly have heard me refer to the reduction of irregular entries by 54% during 2019. Subsequently, the pandemic has also had its circumstances and effects. Also the decrease of 152 in 2021 compared to 2020. But in the specific area of the Autonomous City of Melilla, I would like to point out that by 2021 irregular arrivals by sea fell by 23.5 %, and land entry by 23.3 %. These data are seen in 2022, where land inputs have been reduced by 63%, 112 less entries between 1 January and 28 February. Let's do the exclusion of what happened last week. I'm finishing up, President. Your Honor, we understand that these three lines of work are the right ones, but when things like last week happen, we also need to take additional measures. In this sense, as you know, there were two very important attempts, in which nothing less than 3200 people tried. Some of these people used violence in an attempt to reach Spanish soil, having to regret, as we have also mentioned, fifty wounded agents. In this regard, I would like once again to reiterate, as I have also said on several occasions, that attacks on agents and State security forces are not going to be tolerated. In this context, the first measures have prevented, as he has also acknowledged, 2400 more people from entering, while the others are being taken care of at CETI, where work is being done on their personal situation. And since then we have strengthened the capabilities with the sending of 100 agents and, as I mentioned today, to send a hundred agents we must have the possibility to do so. We must have emotional and effective objectives with the necessary materials and means. Therefore, the next day you were able to travel by plane with them, with all the guarantees, with all the security, as is necessary for our state security forces and bodies. In this respect, I would like to point out that the violence used by some people who were provided, as has been said, with forks and sticks and who have thrown stones has meant that they have crossed the Moroccan security line. That violence and the means used also meant that they could go beyond the Moroccan security line and that they obviously tried to prevent. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the migratory pressure we are facing, although it is primarily motivated by traditional factors of irregular immigration, also has a fundamental component as a direct consequence of the pandemic. In this regard, we rely on the strategic guidelines of our border control policy, since they have reduced entry. However, the current situation, as you have recalled, obliges us to strengthen migration policy as a State policy, strengthening its strategic vision, adequate means and, as it cannot otherwise be, surround it with loyalty and consensus. Therefore, we will continue to implement additional measures that are precise in the face of extraordinary situations, as we obviously have to ensure the protection of the border perimeter and the safety of people, especially our public officials who protect the fence. I end by thanking that tone that I have perceived or wanted to perceive as different, different, perhaps by real knowledge of the situation and for many years. Migration is a complex phenomenon. It's from today, from the past and it's going to be from the future - you know it as well as I do - and we need a policy of state and understanding. I don't know if I'm getting ahead of myself, but I appreciate that tone you've ended up with, Mr. Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u163	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Minister. Firstly, there has been no change in the migration policy of the People's Party; it is the same migration policy that supports regular, legal and orderly migration and rejects the irregular and violent, the usual. [[applause]] I am glad that you are well aware of the involvement in the Africa Plan, the development cooperation with countries of origin and transit, but it was rejected by the Socialist Party in the Committee on Development Cooperation, perhaps because it was presented by the People's Party, that emphasis on the Africa Plan, with those countries that are in difficulty, which ultimately results in the mafia, at the risk of our agents and, first of all, in the abandonment of their countries. I would also like to put in context the reference that you make permanently to the increase of the police force in general, which began to be reduced in the time of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, when the 2008 crisis began. It was in 2010 when the first zero replacement rate occurred and the People's Party inherited that situation. Fortunately, when you arrived at the Government you found yourself in a somewhat healthier situation, which has enabled you to make this effort, which I believe would also be good to recognize and put into context at some point. [[Applauds]] With regard to the specific case of Melilla, which we are talking about, I have mentioned the EUR 5 million budgeted for 2021 and another EUR 5 million for 2022 and that there is a series of years in which these EUR 5 million will be incorporated. It has brought me a sad feeling to see in Melilla's newspapers for two consecutive days the Director General of the Civil Guard first and then you with the Civil Guard commanders watching the inverted combs laid on the floor, waiting to be installed. Perhaps it would have been more positive if the work had been carried out more quickly. They are not installed in the full dimension in which they want to be installed. There are seven kilometers of the twelve in Melilla; in Ceuta I do not know it. Ceuta may have more than Melilla. I don't think timely reinforcement is enough. As a professional of the Armed Forces, Minister, I must advise you to take into account the deterrent effect. That is to say, when people who intend to take criminal action know that what they are going to find in front of them, possibly, is going to make it impossible, it often makes the situation not even arise, so that the police forces in Melilla have more resources on a permanent basis is very important. The fact that one day after the first assault there were two more, the 2 and the 3 - those who moved on the 3rd could intervene from the 4th-, makes the damage produced substantial in many extremes. I also think it's good to avoid contradictory messages. At the same time as you and I defend the integrity, professionalism, effectiveness and rigour with which the security forces and bodies of the State act at this critical time, some members of your Government question it and emphasize it more than the security forces and bodies of the State sometimes defend themselves forcefully because the aggression to which they are subjected is also very forceful. I think those messages need to be unified and left with half inks in these circumstances. Reinforcement must be permanent. With regard to what he mentioned on the intelligent border, I hope that by the end of the year it will be operational, but we remain subject to the circumstances of the Schengen area, that is, being excluded from the Schengen area and excepted from it, the border crossing is friendly, very fluid and it will be impossible - including the intelligent border - to certify the return to the place of origin of all those who are going to pass kindly under the auspices of a good-neighbourly agreement. I hope to be wrong, but for the time being, that is a remarkable difficulty for the State's security forces and bodies. And it also has a remarkable difficulty not knowing exactly when Morocco will decide to open the border, because, in this circumstance, as in so many other things, we are too subject to what Morocco can decide before we adopt any provision. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u164	Thank you very much, Mr Gutierrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz, I believe - and I hope so - that your immigration policy has changed, because the tone has changed and I am sure it is the first step. I am convinced, listening to you, that they will finally change that policy too. I will tell you that the rate of forces and security forces - which I repeat so much - 155 000 between civilian guards and national police, which has been the largest number of troops we have had in Spain, was in December 2011. In December 2011, not in 2008, 2009, 2010, but the government of Rodríguez Zapatero continued to maintain the investment, because we make investment and consider it investment and not spending on security. The 155,000 were in 2011. There were 142 000, that is, 13,000 less - it's data - in June 2018. Now there are 152 000, that is, we are approaching 155 000. I would like to tell you again that I have left two of your speeches with these extremes, with the extremes that I have seen of a change of perspective in migration policy. As you say, although I will remind you, more strategic vision is needed with regard to the phenomenon of migration, because when you ruled there were no such investments as you spoke of. More means are needed now, but you - and I say it to you naturally - did not initiate any action of modernization of the border perimeter of Melilla - and you live there - did not initiate any update until the government of Pedro Sánchez arrived. Five million, plus five million, plus five million, plus five million. Investment is very important, but it is necessary to ensure security and to give the necessary and precise means to our forces and security forces for border control. That's what we're doing. It takes more, and I agree. We need everything they have not done, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz, in seven years of government. But let us all be calm, because this Government takes migration policies seriously. For this reason, we are promoting cooperation with countries of origin and transit, as I have said, bilateral work and police cooperation projects with numerous partners and especially with Morocco, because, I repeat, none of these countries want to give their youth a future outside their borders, they want to give it within their borders; they want development. We will begin the modernization of the border perimeter of Melilla, whose first phase is already executed, as you know, and the second - what is the physical perimeter - will be completed in three months. If there are the combs, it's because they're working. It will end in three months and, I say again, the smart border will be by the end of the year. There's no danger, it's going to be controlled, and that smart border is going to let you know who's coming in and who's going out, as well as whether someone's going in twice on the same day to obviously make the necessary inquiries, which is why it's a smart border. And we also continue to push forward the policy of troop recovery of state security forces and forces, because I agree with you that they serve and that more and more agents must be claimed. That is why we are also continuing in these budgets and for the next year with a replenishment of more than 125 %. All this is motivating that there is also much more control and that, for example, in Melilla there have been fewer irregular entries and, as you also know, the crime rate has dropped, as I have mentioned this morning on two occasions, 17 points. Obviously, we keep our capabilities active and we will take all the necessary and additional measures that emergency situations - because there can always be an emergency situation - can demand, and there is the deployment, as I have also said, of the 100 troops. I am finishing, President, and I am doing so by recalling what you said in your two speeches - I repeat, I did not expect it - because at least it gives me hope that in migration policy we can achieve what is necessary, the necessary coordination, because migration policy is a State policy, and that they will also help to work in Europe on that asylum policy, on the so important Migration and Asylum Pact, as well as on the external dimension, so important, and on cooperation and coordination with the countries of origin; that we do not make this, like other parliamentary groups that have close, like VOX, an electoral element, because this is State policy, migration policy is past, present and future, and we have to address it among all. I'm reasonably satisfied. You say that migration policy has not changed. It has changed the tone, that is a lot, and I am convinced that, as a good connoisseur of Melilla's reality, he knows the effort that this Government is making, what this Government is working on in the autonomous cities of Melilla and Ceuta, because they know that they are specific enclaves that need cooperation, coordination by the central Government and all the unique, extraordinary and special administrations. In this is the government of President Sánchez and has been since June 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u167	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the convening of the debate on the state of the nation. For the initiative group and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u168	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Two Wednesdays ago, I came here to question Mr Bolaños, the Minister of the Presidency, asking him to convene during this session the debate on the state of the nation and to take seriously a reform of the House's Rules of Procedure so that this debate on the state of the nation would be compulsory and would not depend on the propagandistic interests of the government in office to postpone it when it was best suited to it. I would like to ratify this request today and explain how the debates on the state of the nation, perhaps both the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, have been able to take them as a manoeuvre of political wear and tear of the opposition, but I assure you that we do not take it this way; it is about talking, discussing, seeing what the country's challenges are and among all being able to find useful solutions to these country's challenges by invoking the unity of all political forces. What's going on? What happens is that the People's Party and the Socialist Party, alternating in power, in the end we find that the reforms are lacking, they settle, they have no ambition, they do not propose measures against corruption in favour of democratic regeneration, they always look in the short term, in the end they give in to the blackmails of nationalism for budgets, for an investiture. In the end, we find the result of this short-term policy, and it is that we have lost our mind in The Economist regarding the most advanced democracies and passed to the second wagon on that train. Two weeks ago, two Wednesdays ago, he defended that interpellation, and a few hours later Putin invaded Ukraine. See if that debate about the state of the nation is necessary, that I was exposing those challenges that I thought we had to deal with in the debate about the state of the nation, and reality hits us, slapping us, telling us: so that you don't feel like discussing, so that you don't feel like reaching agreements. If you do not have the conviction to agree and to reach agreements, to submit to parliamentary control, see that at least the circumstances oblige us to carry out this kind of debate. Yes, of course, then they will tell me that the president came last Wednesday; he came late, he came dragging his feet, he came on behalf of a nation that has remained in second row at the European vanguard, he came rectifying with regard to the delivery of weapons to Ukraine that we had asked of him. Indeed, it seems to us good that it should be rectified and it seems to us good that it should come, but look at it, that in Germany on Sunday they were having a plenary session precisely to report on this issue. And don't tell me the same goes for the first, in the middle or in the end, as the President of the Government told me last Wednesday, because in the end, the delay of those hours is paid in the lives of Ukrainians who are fighting against Putin's tyranny. We have an obligation to go first. You have an allergy to control, the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, but it is good to come to the House and listen to the opposition. I give you several examples: during the pandemic, who was here betting on the confinement, getting the ERTE extended, which were forgiven the quotas of the self-employed? Who got in the budget negotiation two years ago that the taxes didn't go up? Last year, not because, of course, we had to give in to Podemos... who got the agreement between employers and labour reform unions approved or with what support? Who managed to take this into account unanimously yesterday, correcting the government regarding families with ALS patients? Who asked from Europe and Spain, from the very first moment, to send weapons to the Ukrainians? Do they not realize that in this Parliament they have Spain and the Government of Spain more allies than they do in the Council of Ministers? That is why I have asked you and we continue to ask you - now it seems that the People's Party copies us - to throw Podemos out of the government; to throw Podemos out of the government. I asked the president of the government: would you have formed a government to manage a pandemic or a war with Podemos and subject or supported by the nationalists? He didn't answer me. He didn't answer me, but it looks like he did. For I tell you what our opinion is about the state of the nation: manifestly improved, quite bad. How could it be better? Casting Podemos of the Government, throwing the separatists of the Government of Spain; that Bildu or Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia do not make the decisions about Spain, which are the ones asking the Ukrainian people to surrender to the tyranny, which are the ones who put themselves on the side of Putin, which are those who coincide with Bolsonaro, with Le Pen, with Orbán, with all the friends of VOX, in which we must support Putin. Don't you realize you can't rule with these people? The People's Party seems to be timidly trying to offer them a way out to finish the legislature. It certainly does not seem, given this morning's control session, that they go very seriously, but what I have no doubt is that we cannot govern with populists and separatists. Yesterday, in the European Parliament, Podemos, United Left, Bildu and Esquerra voted not to investigate the connections of Catalan independence with Putin. Can we govern Spain with these people, with the people who hate liberal democracy, who do not believe in the separation of powers, who do not want the connections of Catalan separatism with the Russian dictator to be investigated? You have committed yourselves to this debate on the state of the nation, so vote in favour of this motion. Because it hasn't been celebrated for seven years, and you and you never want to celebrate it. [[Addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, respectively]] They seem to be very angry, in the control sessions it is seen constantly, but the truth is that they look a lot alike. And we need, we need to govern Spain as we govern Europe, with constant support from the Conservatives, the Social Democrats and the Liberals in order to achieve state pacts. For Europe, for Ukraine - that alliance for Europe - but also for energy, for the family, for birth, for depopulation, for youth employment, for defence, for national security, will they rely on defence and national security in Bildu and Esquerra? Who are they going to make these pacts with? Who are they going to reach these agreements with? Is it not good for Spain and for all Spaniards who rely on Social Democrats, Conservatives and Liberals?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u169	Mr. Bal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u170	Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. There have been twenty-five debates on the state of the nation in the period born with the 1978 Constitution and it has been a long time since the last one was held, with Mariano Rajoy as president of the government, in February 2015, although the seven years since then have been politically very moved, with four general elections by means of, product of two failed legislatures and another unfinished after the motion of censure of 2018. That is to say, since that last debate, there have been no lack of opportunities to carry out this evaluation and, moreover, it was the Spaniards who had the opportunity to do so through the vote. However, the citizens' proposal to promote its celebration now has much greater reason and much greater need, since the grave circumstances resulting from the terrible invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces have and will have great impacts on our present and the future. Ladies and gentlemen, he drew your attention to the fact that in the question to the Government only Mr Bal referred to the growing war tension on the Ukrainian border. The next day the invasion of the Russian troops took place and everything has been precipitated since then, generating a horrific situation for the thousands of lives that are being lost, disturbing the fate of the millions of refugees who are trying to escape death and worrying about so many things that already affect us. The irresponsible decision of the Government weakens us in the face of the world. In short, if these twenty-five debates in forty-three years have been relevant and far-reaching, the urgency of this motion will be important and most likely the resolution responses of the various parliamentary groups will be commensurate with the historical moments that we are going through. In that confidence, I shall respond with my vote in favour to this motion. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u174	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Without ending to recover from the dramatic consequences of the pandemic, which have devastated the lives of tens of thousands of Spaniards and which have ended the job opportunities, business, entrepreneurship and the future projects of millions more, we are now facing a totalitarian invasion by Putin into Ukraine that will have enormous economic and social consequences for our country. In both cases we have faced the worst possible governments. A government led without a course, which has had no more look than the egotistical interest of its president and which, instead of agreeing with those who wanted to make a strong project for Spain, has been surrounded by those who seek to confront it, weaken it and divide it. Never more than now our country needed a solid Government and never as it now had such a childish, opportunistic, incapable, dismembered and senseless Government. To the permanent struggle of the Socialist Party with Podemos in the sessions of government - which have already become those councils of ministers in fights of roosters - is added a command of Czech partners that conditions our future based on stalonary, euros and nationalist tolls. And so, while the light reaches 700 euros megawatt/hour, the fuel the 2 euros per litre, the prices have risen a 7.4, the food of first necessity have become luxury items for many Spanish families and many businesses no longer endure and have to lower the blind. And here we have a government that comes with sufflamas, that does not come with proposals, that does not debate what is the future of our country and that does not come to this Parliament - which is the seat of national sovereignty - to explain to all the Spaniards represented by this House what is the next step; to join all the Spaniards who are here in a country project. And that union in a country project belongs to the president of the government and the place is the debate of the state of the nation; and here neither debate nor practically have we president, because this is a government without direction and a parliament without debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u175	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u176	Thank you very much, President. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group is presenting a motion urging the Government to convene, within one month, the general policy debate that has not taken place since 2015. We are told that because of the resistance of the Executive to submit to the control of the House and because this debate is not specifically regulated in the Rules of Procedure of this House, which puts us on the road for seven years without any general policy debate. However, and in honor of the truth, if we look back and see the number of imponderables that have crossed the path of convening this debate, it is unreasonable to argue that it has not occurred because of an arbitrary activity of the government of turn, except, perhaps, in 2017, in which there was a government with full powers presided over by Mr Rajoy since October of the previous year. Let's go over the years. While in 2016 President Rajoy's government was in office until October 31st and on immediately preceding dates there was the investiture debate, in which the House gave confidence to its political government program, there was no object of an almost simultaneous general policy debate. As for the year 2018, it should be remembered that in June of that year the motion of censure took place, taking possession of the president of the government, Mr Sánchez; a motion of censure that, as everyone knows, is constructive and that required the approval of a political program of government that the candidate put forward, so it did not make much sense, after the debate and approval of that political program of government of the candidate in June, to promote another general policy debate the first session of that year, that is, between September and December. In the following year, in 2019, the Government was in office from April until the beginning of 2020 and was not the subject of any general policy debate because, under article 21 of the Government Act, the Government in office is limited to the ordinary public affairs office, except for reasons of general interest; that is, it cannot make politically oriented decisions. Therefore, the general policy debate in that year had no purpose, and in 2020, having taken office in January, the COVID 19 pandemic was unleashed in March - as has already been said in the inquiry - which, after six waves and a health, economic and social crisis brings us closer to today, which has greatly hampered the activity of society as a whole and of course also of this House. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the years 2020 and 2021 everything has been very complicated. Mr Bal, spokesman for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, these are the facts and that in the current year there will be a general policy debate already demonstrated it by the President of the Government at a monitoring session held in this House on 15 December and came to ratify or remind him of it by the Minister of Presidency in the inquiry that this motion causes, stating that it would be so at this session, although not with the urgency that the Citizens' Deputies demand, that is, that it be held within one month from today if the motion were adopted. Temperating the times, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, is something that is necessary in order to give time for the majority opposition party to lead the restructuring process in which it is immersed. Finally, Mr Bal - you have finished, Madam President - if you had been a little more objective in claiming this general policy debate, perhaps we would have saved ourselves quite a lot of your passages of theatre, gesticulation and hyperbole, and also, as you have been told, the big brush that this government is engaging in blackmailing populists, nationalists and separatists. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u178	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. The last time a debate on the state of the nation was convened was in February 2015, as has already been said, therefore seven years ago. The General Policy Plenary is the most important after the general budgets of the State and it is clear that President Pedro Sánchez will convene it when he thinks it appropriate and when he is more favourable to it. In that debate the leader of the current Executive takes stock of the management of that year and forwards the general lines of what he intends to achieve the next, and that is why it is so important. As has been stated, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber do not require the convocation nor are they regulated in the Constitution, although it is a tradition established by Felipe Gonzalez in 1983. Since then, the Congress has held 25 such debates. We know, from what we have been able to learn, that the convening of this debate is not one of the Government's priorities, which perhaps goes away in the autumn, if it is finally done. I would like to remind you that the annual debate on general policy is a widely recommended democratic practice, both for Parliament's oversight of government action and for the exercise of democratic transparency before citizens. Indeed, we all have this kind of debate on television in our image; it serves to inform citizens about the proposals made by political representatives, so that citizens can monitor politicians and, yes, so that the opposition can monitor the Government, as is their obligation. In view of these considerations, who can refuse to hold this debate? who refuses to do this exercise of transparency and democracy before the citizenry? and, above all, why does it refuse, why does it refuse this democratic debate? It is incredible that the self-proclaimed most progressive government in history does not engage in general policy debates that you call the state of the nation. It is a democratic shame that I hope will be corrected because it is a more democratic deficiency that they are normalizing. This is not only against the democratic quality of the so-called full democracy that they say is Spain, but the democratic shortcomings that today legitimize the most progressive government in history will be multiplied by the rule of authoritarian rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Santiago Romero has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u180	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, while the world is experiencing the most serious political and humanitarian crisis in decades, Citizens is holding an hour of debate calling for what the Government has already announced on 15 December that it will do. After Mr Mañueco's operation to remove them from the Government of Castile and León and change them to VOX, he called for the debate on the state of the nation to be held in an imminent manner. They then register another motion requesting it to be held within one month. So much haste even prevented Mrs Arrimadas from intervening in the debate, on maternity leave, whom I take advantage of, by the way, to congratulate her on the birth of her son. The internal confusion that they must have had must have been such that they have amended themselves and now ask to hold the debate when the Government said, which would already allow Mrs Arrimadas to speak. We are in favour of debates of interest at parliamentary level and, of course, we are in favour of holding the debate on the state of the nation even though it is not a compulsory debate. Since 2016, Rajoy's government has stopped celebrating them because it wanted to, and it has subsequently been objectively impossible to carry out the debate. In 2018, as discussed here, there was a motion of censure; in 2019 there was a double election date, and in 2020 and 2021, an exceptionality motivated by the COVID pandemic. It has been hard years, full of parliamentary debates. Remember the multiple attacks and bulges that the government has suffered in this Parliament for the sole purpose of generating instability when more stability needed Spain. Attacks, like today, in which Citizens have been employed thoroughly, like the rest of the block on the right. The Government has multiplied legislative sessions at this time, implying permanent parliamentary debates. All groups supporting this Government prioritized the adoption of the social shield rules. You know that we debate here weekly, we review the whole state of Spain in pandemic. The Government of Spain is the executive that has most often been subject to parliamentary control in these two years, even though Citizens ask it to account - be surprised - for resisting parliamentary control for six years, they say on page 3 of their proposal. The Government has appeared in Congress during the worst moments of the pandemic every fifteen days and has multiplied the attendance of its members in Congress and in the Senate. This commitment to society as a whole has given rise to intense activity, including the holding of the Councils of Ministers to accelerate economic recovery and to implement the coalition programme. The Government's willingness to transparency and to take action in favour of people is therefore more than accredited. More questionable is the role of the opposition during these two years, dynamitating any space of dialogue with a false and radical discourse. For the past two hundred days, they have been blocking the renewal of constitutional bodies and have denied support to the Government at the worst moments of the pandemic. It has even reached the sabotage by the puppies of Mr.Abascal, Putin's friend, of acts within Congress, without there being any criticism by Citizens regarding these unacceptable acts. [[rumors]] Citizens have voted against the laws that broadened the social shield, which cut off the abusive and undeserved benefits of electricity, voted against the more social budgets of history and have not supported the law of minimum living income when it was worse for people. A right that considers this Government illegitimate, which must be overthrown. Lord Abascal, overthrowing him is using force, according to the Dictionary of the Royal Spanish Academy. That right is neither democratic nor rigorous and the star proposal that Mr Bal brings us - which his group reiterates in every debate, today they have said it three times - is to throw the Podemos out of the government. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] And then what? Are you going to guarantee with your ten deputies the stability of the Spanish Government or do you expect the People's Party to support this government? Have you believed that Feijoo is coming to moderate the People's Party? Because Mr. Feijoo comes to rule with VOX, not with you - as we see in Castile and Lion today - nor does he come to rule with the Socialist Party. Today it is not possible for Spain to have a government without a United We can but, irresponsibly, they ask even the satiety in every debate that they throw from the Government to the United We can to provoke an early election in which you would be swept away, would disappear. They're calling us killers already. Mr. Garicano called us murderers. Go with liberal moderation!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u181	Mr. Santiago, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u182	What I hope is that there will be debate about the state of the nation, that it will not be another verbal orgy of chrispation and intolerance like the one you starred last March 2nd and that you will try to be a little bit, a little responsible and patriotic. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u183	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u184	Thank you, Madam President. I begin by drinking water to overcome the drink that the secretary general of the Communist Party accuses us of communists, which is the last thing I needed to see in this House. [[Applauds]] So far the Comedy Club!Go talk to your communist friends around the world: with the FARC, with the Venezuelans, with Putin's allies and with Putin, who is his ally, but don't come here and make jokes because that's already in very bad taste. [[Applauds]] Look, we're talking about the state of the nation debate. It is a debate that has been taking place since 1983, as has already been said in this House. Except in electoral years, it has been an annual meeting in which we have always been able to take stock of serious things - not what we are hearing now - about what is happening in this country. With Felipe González the debate on the state of the nation came to be held ten times, Mr Aznar and Mr Zapatero celebrated it in six, Mr Rajoy in three, but Pedro Sánchez resists calling. It has been four years, but it has not given us time, as the secretary general of the Communist Party tells us, because it has been a little hasty. There hasn't been time in four years. Well, that's why, of course, it's not because of lack of conviction. The very words of Mr. Pedro Sánchez are very eloquent. I remind them when they were in the opposition - because as they do not remember - and they then said, in the opposition, Pedro Sánchez himself: A lot of transparency law - he said - but the government confirms that this year there will be no debate on the state of the nation. I mean, Mr. Sánchez was in favour of celebrating it. At that time, when he said so, it had only been seven months since the formation of this Government, not seven years. Nor should it be for lack of reason to justify it, because there is plenty to justify this debate, such as the policy of the pacts of this Government, which is proving lethal for Spain, all that is needed is to listen to the Secretary-General of the Communist Party. We have not just digested that Spain is the only country in the civilized world where there are communists in a government; this is something we have very easily normalized. Sánchez has given the rule of law to people like you, Mr Santiago; you, who have never believed in the Constitution or in freedom or democracy. He has approved pardons for people like you, who have never believed in the nation either. [[pointing to the central part of the Chamber]] He has allied himself with ages, people like you, who have the past that you have and that we all remember. [[pointing to the central part of the Chamber]] All just to approve their budgets. He has signed the departure of Spaniards from the classrooms of the schools of Catalonia. He broke the one-size-fits-all Social Security box. He has surrendered by signing the departure of the Civil Guard in Navarre. Why talk about your economic policy? It has placed Spain as the most backward country from the crisis in the Western world. The unemployment rate is again the highest in Europe. GDP suffered the biggest fall in Europe. Moreover, I will repeat this to the Socialists, because they have not heard it well: the biggest fall in GDP since the Civil War, and it is not Franco's, it is yours, Socialists, to put on how you put on! [[Applauds]] Inflation is 7.4%, the highest in thirty-three years. The debt is the highest in history; the Spaniards are more indebted than they have ever been. Institutional deterioration is rampant. The Democracy Index 2021 has gone from considering our country a full democracy to calling it defective, a real shame for all Spaniards. Violence and crime have returned to our neighbourhoods and we have suffered the greatest migratory invasions since the years of the Green March. Spain has seen its weight sink into the world until it became the laughing stock of the West, partly because of the fear generated by the fact that we actually have the only government in the civilized world with communists within it. I could go on, because the reasons for this debate remain, but Pedro Sánchez does not want this House to debate the situation in Spain, and precisely that is the most obvious reason for the deep and systematic disregard of the government of Pedro Sánchez for this House and for the role of the legislature. The juggling of Congress and its postponement to a secondary and marginal role in Spanish politics represents only the tip of the sanchest drift iceberg, which is nothing more than the continuous and permanent deterioration and destabilization of State institutions, which puts them at the service not of a government and a party, but simply of an individual, Pedro Sánchez. We have warned on many occasions: we have suffered a rapid devaluation of our institutional framework and that must ignite all the alarms. We have seen it with the Prosecutor's Office, with the attempts to submit to the judiciary, with the taking of power of the Court of Auditors-with collaborationism, of course - with the Attorney General's Office, with the CNMC, with the partisan use of CIS or Spanish Broadcasting and of course with the none of the transparency laws, to which Pedro Sánchez himself referred. Those of us who believe in democracy know that with the maintenance and integrity of the good functioning of our institutions we play a great role. We therefore believe that this debate is appropriate. I am concerned - yes - that VOX has on many occasions been the only voice that has been heard in this House to denounce the things that this Government has been doing; the only one who has obtained the protection of the Constitutional Court in defence of the need to maintain the control activity of the Government during the confinement; the only one who has denounced the abuse of the Royal Decree-Law by this Government; the only one who has been denouncing the absence of ministers in the control sessions to the Government, or the only one who has not ceased to denounce the blackmail that it means sending to Brussels a recovery plan without having approved it in this house, which is who should have approved it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u185	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u186	It's over. The rehabilitation of the dignity and respect that this House deserves is urgent. The holding of the debate on the state of the nation is a necessary condition, but not sufficient, because we will never cease to remind it: in order for Spain to move forward, we must leave you behind. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u187	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, we fully support this Citizens' motion to demand the holding of the debate on the state of the nation. In fact, as you know, the People's Parliamentary Group has been demanding this debate for many months and in July last year we recorded a non-legislative proposal asking for it. Now, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, let yourselves be left with those populist tangles that you have used to defend this initiative. Mr Bal, it is sometimes difficult for us to distinguish whether you are opposed to the government or opposed to the opposition. And, Mr. Bal, stop once and for all calling the agreements to bring citizen representation to constitutional bodies and those of constitutional relevance, as you did on the day of the interpellation. [[Applauds]] Mr Bal, that is the path of populism and the degradation of politics and not the way to deepen democracy and citizen participation, what brings us back here today to demand that the government be held accountable once and for all, not when it is right for it and how it is right for it and to make propaganda, as it has done so far. The other day in the interpellation Mr Bolaños said here a little bit more or less that the government had broken the record of responses to the opposition. In any case, what has hit is the record of no answers and contempt for the opposition, and I give you an example. I myself asked the Government nothing less than seven questions regarding the advocacy of communism that the Vice-President, Yolanda Díaz, had asked in her introduction to the new edition of the Communist Manifesto of Marx and Engels. And you know what the government told me? I am telling you, literally - I am writing quotes - that these issues go beyond the scope of the parliamentary control of the Government. I close quotes. In other words, according to the Government, neither the opposition nor the Spanish have the right to know whether that Government shares the support of the communist dictatorships made by Vice-President Yolanda Díaz. Now that you have announced that the debate on the state of the nation will finally take place, we ask you to replace propaganda, opacity and contempt for the opposition for reasons, transparency and responsibility. And I give you another very important example these days when a European country, Ukraine, is defending its freedom and sovereignty at the cost of the lives of the Ukrainians themselves against the invasion of Putin. How is it possible that half of the government, the communist half, has aligned itself with the dictatorships of the world in defense of Putin and against military aid to Ukraine? [[Applauds]] Mr. Santiago, how is that possible? And how is it possible that half the government and its partners these days are more concerned about erasing the communist footprints of Putin's biography than about defending the Ukrainians? For example, the other day Mr. Rufián, who is not here today. What an effort Mr. Rufián made to erase the communist footprints of Putin's biography! Well, I disgust Mr Rufián and the whole left of this House: Putin himself has not long ago presumed to keep the Communist Party of the Soviet Union's card and has said that the ideas of communism are wonderful. [[applause]] That is, the same as Vice President Yolanda Díaz. Putin said the same thing. And while that happens, what does the government do? So what Pedro Sánchez did today in the control session when he called for support and unity from the PP in sending military aid to Ukraine while he denied that it is half of his own government - the communist half - that does not give him that support. And what did Mr. Pedro Sánchez do two days ago? To support the communist ministers in a celebration of the 8M against the freedom of Ukrainian women, asking them to surrender, to negotiate with the aggressors. And what did this government do yesterday? Denying in the post-Council press conference the explanations of the United Nations We can on why it refuses to help Ukraine militarily. Is this your accountability model? Is this what you're going to do in the next state of the nation debate? Please, now that you finally come to celebrate it, we ask you once and for all to replace the opacity with transparency and all that propaganda with the truth. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Crespin Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u190	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bal, how important it is to be able to rectify when one recognizes that the approach, as it is done, does not respond to the truth! And how important it is also to do so in time. They do so here and acknowledge that the debate in 2019, 2020 and 2021 was not held for reasons beyond the will of this government. We therefore agree with the motion in the terms of the self-amendment; among other things, because, although it might have benefited this government, it would not make much sense to hold a debate on the state of the nation without the leader of the opposition and also without Arrimadas. We already support this motion, and that is why we are voting in favour. We support it before it was presented, because the President of the Government announced in advance the debate and his willingness to hold it. This government comes to this House to account, unlike what Mr Rajoy has done up to fifteen times. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not afraid or allergic to democratic quality. They will allow me to make some considerations about some of the statements you made in your inquiry. We understand the political opportunity always though we do not share it, because we do not share its motivations and arguments once the predisposition was on the table to be able to hold this debate. We're at your disposal and we're willing. Do you know why? Because we have the tasks done, this government has the tasks done. When you respond with rigour and responsibility, which is what this government does, you can discuss in this House as many times as it is necessary and on the subject that the House considers. But the most important thing is that, in addition to that, we can do it by looking at all citizens, looking at them in the eyes and in the face, because this Government has been responding to the needs of citizens. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a government that has kept the course of this country in unprecedented situations: during a pandemic from which we are still emerging and now with a challenge of incalculable dimensions for democracy, for development and for progress in the world; an international crisis caused, as always, by totalitarianism and the attitude of cowards. Yeah, the cowards. Only a coward is afraid of democracy and freedom. [[Applauds]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are also looking forward to seeing what this yearning debate on the state of the nation will benefit from. You said, Mr. Bal, that they were proposing with this motion to talk about people's problems. I want to tell you that this government works every day to respond to people's problems. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of talking and doing; and, if possible, as has been said here, not with a big brush, because politics is also the art of what is possible, not of demagogic headlines. We are looking forward to hearing those proposals and ideas that will be put on the table, as not many have been done to date, which we know of. And we also wish, ladies and gentlemen, for a high-level debate, a high-level debate in substance and in form. This initiative hangs Citizens, as almost always, under the umbrella of transparency, accountability and democratic cleansing. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's necessary for them to demand them also where they are, because what citizens do we stay with? With the one in this House, with the one in Madrid or with the one in Andalusia, where they voted against a full monograph to talk about the health situation in my autonomous community? [[Applauds]] It is important to rectify and be consistent, ladies and gentlemen. Let us take advantage of this debate; let us take advantage of it, because this House is the most important political forum that this country has and must give answers and commitments to one of the most serious threats to the essence of democracy, popular will and equal opportunities in a peaceful world. He needs proposals and unity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the Socialist Group will be alone in this. Some of us do not expect or want anything, and others expect what the People's Party will do. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking forward to a self-amendment of the ultra-right whitening. We hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the old leader Feijoo will demonstrate a health cord to the far right. You have the first chance in Castile and León.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u191	Mrs. Crespin, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u192	Do it for you and do it for this country. This party will follow that line. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-09-CD220309.u193	Thank you, Mrs Crespin. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good afternoon. It was 1:15 in the afternoon.
