ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. As agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, we shall jointly discuss the agenda items relating to the direct and single reading of the protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland, done at Brussels on 5 July 2022. The Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Iñarritu García, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Egun on, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know the so-called butterfly effect, which is why a concatenation of facts can produce a completely different fact elsewhere in the world. An example is often given that the flapping of a butterfly in Hong Kong can produce a storm in New York. [[Rumors]] Russia's aggression against Ukraine - which, by the way, we once again strongly denounce and show our solidarity with the Ukrainian people - has produced several of these butterfly effects or concatenations of facts elsewhere in the world. [[Rumors]] One of them was predictable: the increase in the prices of hydrocarbons and raw materials and, thereby, of the whole chain. This isn't new... [[Rumors]] They tell me that you don't listen, I'll try to raise my voice. [[Rumors]] One such effect has been the rise in hydrocarbon prices and, as a result, the price of raw materials and the rest of the chain has risen, also generating a global energy crisis, especially in Europe. As I said, this is not new, it happened almost fifty years ago with the Yom Kippur War; in fact, all the crises and conflicts that have originated in the Middle East have produced the same effect. But there are other butterfly effects that have been more surprising. One of them is the issue we are dealing with today, which is Finland and Sweden's request to join NATO. These States have decided to abandon the neutrality which they have shown - Sweden for over a century and Finland for several decades - in the fear that Mr Putin will also attack those territories. Another effect that has also been surprised is the revitalization of NATO itself. We remember how not long ago Mr Macron said that NATO was brain dead and that Europe had to take action against the new realities in a context in which the second NATO army, led by Turkey, was sowing destabilisation in the Mediterranean, the Caucasus and the Middle East. What a fellow traveler! In fact, another butterfly effect is that Kurdish refugees who were in several European states will now be able to be persecuted by the satrap Erdogan because of that agreement for Sweden and Finland to join NATO. Moreover, another effect that is taking place at this time is that Azerbaijan, taking advantage of the smokescreen of the conflict in Ukraine, has decided to unilaterally attack the Republic of Armenia; a unilateral aggression, violating international legislation and to which the world is looking elsewhere. It is a nonsense that highlights Europe's double standard that if action is taken against Russia for aggression against Ukraine, the same will not be done with tyrant Aliyev and his regime. Why are measures taken against Russia and not against Azerbaijan? Of course, we need the gas from Azerbaijan. This highlights the nonsense of what Europe is doing. By the way, all solidarity with the Armenian people. [[Applauds]] In relation to NATO, the Basque people thirty-six years ago clearly said 'No to NATO' and in Euskal Herria Bildu we remain in the same position. We believe that this organization does not help solidarity among peoples or the peaceful resolution of conflicts; indeed, that path of interventionism does not help at all. In fact, we believe that Europe, from an autonomous defence of its interests to meet the challenges, would have to make its own analysis and defend its strategic autonomy - it is common sense - along the lines of what the Lisbon Treaty says in Article 49.7. That is where the defence of security - and not only in military terms - of what Europe of the future has to be should be explored. In relation to Ukraine, we are seeing how Ukraine's defense - a David against Goliath - is leading to the recovery of territory these days. But let's make an analysis: is that helping at the end of the war? What are the speeches being heard in Russia? In favour of ceasefire, peace and surrender or military escalation? Does this situation move us away or bring us closer to a scenario of peace and resolution? We all know that this conflict has a culprit, which is Mr Putin, but it is the responsibility of all governments and also of the European Union to put an end to it as soon as possible. Therefore, statements such as those made by Mr Borrell, saying that the conflict must be fuelled by a greater shipment of weapons because wars are won with weapons, seem a nonsense on the part of a high representative of the European Union, when the priority should be to seek, as soon as possible, peaceful and diplomatic solutions to that tragedy. Mr Guterres said recently that we are in a miscalculation of nuclear annihilation. It sounds alarmist, it sounds harsh, but that's the stage we're on, ladies and gentlemen. What's the priority? From our point of view, putting an end to that tragedy as soon as possible, and that is not done with NATO or with the sending of weapons. That's the case, and you all know it. From Euskal Herria Bildu we greatly respect the decisions that Sweden and Finland can make, they are sovereign states and they must make them. We do not have any interference in this case, so we will respect the decisions of those States. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u3	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. After the previous speaker's speech, it was not clear to me whether he was going to vote yes, which seems to be what he meant even though the speech was of a no. I'd like to start my exhibition by remembering how we got here and how this started. It began with an invasion wrapped in a lie, saying that they were military maneuvers and that there was no intention to attack or invade Ukraine. However, it happened and there was not only an invasion of Ukraine to protect - as was said - the Donbas and the Russian-speaking population of the East, but then it became clear that the intention was to annex the whole country. And not only that, but the political discourses of the Russian leaders talk over and over again of the great Russian space, of the great Russia, of recovering the old Soviet space. Surely, it will have been either by the conviction of the social majority in Russia or by political interest, but the truth is that we are facing this situation. And how great the threat will have been, and how they will have seen it in Eastern Europe, which has broken down pacifist traditions no less than two hundred years on the part of Sweden, since the beginning of the 19th century, and also on the part of Finland after the so-called finlandisation: they had virtually no foreign policy in order not to stand against the foreign policy that the Soviet Union could have. Therefore, from this sudden change in the public opinion of these two societies and also of their political leaders, two things must be deduced: on the one hand, there is a real threat, they feel a real threat, and, on the other hand, no one can defend themselves, countries without alliances are not self-sufficient to be able to defend themselves. A great deal has also been said here about NATO and American interests. Obviously, everyone has his or her interests - also various European countries have his or hers - but, of course, without US technology coverage it is very difficult to sustain a good defense. In fact, who were the ones who warned of the invasion? Who were the ones who detected the movements of Russian troops? It was the Americans. Even though Europe did not believe it, the Americans insisted and in the end it was true. We are also talking about arms, the American interest in arms and for their technology to be bought by other European countries. Europe must reflect there and, of course, must make a more effective, united, joint military policy from a European perspective, not just from country to country. But, frankly, I am more concerned about other interests within the members of the alliance, such as Turkey's interests. The fact of putting certain matters into play for particular interests shows that one is a member of the alliance but only with one leg, not with the other. The alliance should mean defending certain values, not the personal interests - not national or state, but personal - of a government that is in difficult circumstances, such as Turkish. And, of course, I still do not understand that the Spanish Patriot battery is still installed in Turkey; I do not understand it, I do not know what interests it serves and they have never been able to explain it to me either in the Defence Committee or in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It should be noted that, for example, there were only eight votes against in the Finnish Parliament. They see the advantages clearly because they were already in a partnership program with NATO, but the fundamental advantage is to invoke Article 5. The contribution to the rest of the alliance is to have two good armies prepared, 280 fighters and greater coordination in the control and maintenance of peace and security in the Arctic and Baltic areas. The alliance has served to stop an aggression that was certainly not going to stop there. It has served not directly, because it is the Ukrainians who are fighting on the fronts of their country, but through arms. There were those who said that it was impossible to resist, that it was better to give in to Russia and reach an agreement - to give in and then to give in again - but it has been shown that no, that there may be capacity to resist. Of course, what is at stake is not the territorial integrity of Ukraine - on which it would be best to ask the population of the relevant areas; that should be the solution - and what is at stake is much more. What is at stake is that Europe's values can prevail over other values that are not shared by peoples like Russia. Russia does not have our parameters and we cannot think that the Russian leaders are thinking with European parameters. He used to wonder: what are the speeches in Russia? For I will tell you that the speech on television in Russia is unique and belligerent, absolutely exaggerated. That's what's been going on since the beginning of the war, and whoever's different is being sent to jail. Now Putin is facing a complicated situation - I am finishing, Mr Vice-President - as he may have to go on calling for general mobilization. So far, much of the army has been from poor areas, ethnic minorities and contract soldiers, but things are changing now. If you have to call for general mobilization, it's not going to be the same for Russian society and something's going to move. I'm running out of time. In any case, much has changed whatever happens and geostrategy and defense are not going to be the same. Nor will the world in the commercial sphere be the same from now on, whatever happens with the conflict in Ukraine. Apart from respecting the will of Finns and Swedes, we are convinced that this is a good decision and that it is a good decision for all, so we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u5	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today is a great day, a great day for those of us who share a commitment to security and the will for European integration. Today we Spaniards welcome two traditional partners from our country to the greatest alliance that exists in the world in defense of the rule of law and the international order. What seemed impossible only five years ago - or even last year, if I am in a hurry - is now a fortunate reality: Sweden and Finland will be full members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. But how did we get here? How has this change been possible? In 2019, less than 30% of the Swedish population was in favour of NATO integration; last May, according to a survey by Novus, almost 60% of Swedish people supported their country's move to become a member state of the alliance. In January this year, 42% of Finland's population opposed NATO membership; in May, only four months later, 76% of Finland's population already supported formalising its membership of the Atlantic Organization. I do not think that any of your ladies and gentlemen, even those most relevant voices in this House against the Atlantic Alliance, have the slightest doubt as to who it is and still is the great culprit of this change: it is called Vladimir and it is called Putin. Sweden and, especially, Finland have always tried to maintain a neutral relationship with Russia, being aware of the mutual interests among their nations. In fact, cooperation in the Arctic was the last reduction in dialogue and collaboration with Russia after Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion of the Ukrainian territories of Crimea and the provinces of Donetsk and Lugansk in 2014. The West's lukewarm response to that invasion caused Putin to become emboldened, assuming that no one would interfere with his delusional mission to regain Russian greatness through territorial expansion at the expense of his neighbours. The Russian Air Force repeatedly violated the airspace of Baltic and Scandinavian countries and, in July 2014, Russian missiles shot down Malaysia Airlines' commercial flight number 17, killing its 289 occupants. A few months later, in 2015, Vladimir Putin directly threatened Denmark with nuclear missiles after the Danish government joined NATO's anti-aircraft shield. In short, a thug attitude - Putin's - on the international scene that demonstrates a lack of respect for international law and for the democratic values and way of life we have in Western countries. Finally, this attitude crystallized in the large-scale invasion of Ukraine last February, an invasion that aimed precisely at overthrowing the pro-European government of our liberal colleague Volodimir Zelenski and ending the aspirations for freedom, democracy and security of Ukrainians. Not only that, but Russian forces have carried out an invasion that has resulted in rape following human rights violations: torture of Ukrainian soldiers; destruction of hospitals and schools; mining of cities; destruction of civilian shelters, schools and theatres; indiscriminate killings of civilians and summary executions - when not massacres, such as in Bucha - following the best practices such as the taste of Russian communism. All of them actions contrary to the rules of war. Fortunately, the response of European and American democracies has been up to date in providing humanitarian aid to Ukraine, but also military equipment and weapons so that Ukrainian troops could plant in front of the aggressor and slow their progress to the west. Unfortunately for Putin and his acolytes, inside and outside Russia - including some leaders today of our nation's government, sadly for Spain - that response has borne fruit and today Ukrainian troops have made very significant progress in recovering their territory from Putin's hands. In short, Putin has already lost, not only because of the Ukrainian military advances, which have managed to secure positions that he had not recovered since 2014 in Donetsk and Lugansk, but especially because his main objective was to weaken the European Union and NATO and what he has achieved is the opposite: a stronger and united Europe and an alliance with new partners in which within his new strategic positioning Russia passes from hand to hand aimed at a more significant and direct threat. Ladies and gentlemen, the inclusion of Sweden and Finland in the Atlantic Alliance should be a matter for the citizens of both countries alone. There is nothing to say whether this decision is based on democratic principles, whether they are representative or direct. Our obligation, as a country that shares the same values, should be exclusively that of absolute and unanimous support for the sovereign decisions of another democratic State, and therefore our role should be limited to ratification by this House and, as I said, unanimously. However, there are those who want to use this procedure to question the decisions of other European citizens and their sovereignty to decide which country they want. They want to amend the sovereign decisions of others and do so from that moral superiority so on the left to tell the citizens who are wrong and to tell them how things really are; with that childish treatment they employ with the citizens to tell them what they should eat, how they should dress, what they can do with their body, what they should talk about and how to talk about, what energies are good and what they don't, how to educate their children, in what language or in which language, or who can be considered a good or a bad citizen. But, being this democratically questionable, the worst is the equidistance and the dirty and vomity equivalence that always confuses victims with executioners. Ladies and gentlemen, those who are once again telling us in the name of peace today that, in the face of Putin's brutal aggression, we must not respond to the aggressor and that it is enough to mention the brotherhood of the peoples who will not hear the condemnation of the Russian aggressions and massacres of Mariupol and Bucha or those that we will probably discover shortly in Jarkov or Izium. It is the same strategy and the same political groups that will never hear of condemning the ETA assassins, those who celebrate their release with celebrations of humiliation to their victims, those who demand the rapprochement of the Parots and Txapote to continue to give encouragement to a government that has lost the moral reference of our history of fighting terror in exchange for another day of sleep in La Moncloa. But today is a great day, ladies and gentlemen. Today we win the Democrats because the Spaniards welcome Sweden and Finland to our alliance, but also because they lose those who continue to support a bloodthirsty dictator who is willing to do anything to destroy who we are. In the end, despite the attempts of some, the truth is always imposed, ladies and gentlemen. You'll always know who Putin was, as you'll always know what ETA was. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u7	For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. What we are debating here today is not whether it is okay for Sweden and Finland to enter NATO, but whether we really agree to continue to expand and strengthen this military organisation or, even more basic, whether we agree with its very existence. The BNG makes it clear: 'No NATO'. We opposed in its day to the entry of the Spanish state and maintain our view that the best thing it can do is to dissolve and disappear, because NATO was never a defensive military organization, as its supporters proclaim; on the contrary, it was born and grew as the spearhead of the offensives that at every moment interested or interested in American imperialism. This aggressive and non-defensive character became evident when, after the Cold War ended, not only did it not disappear, but it continued its expansion towards Eastern Europe, generating tensions and doubling its membership over the past two decades. Precisely, over these decades, NATO or its major member countries have been directly responsible for hundreds of thousands of dead, wounded and refugees, with particularly bloody actions in countries such as Serbia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya and Syria. Moreover, the issue is that NATO sets guidelines for financing its new strategic concept, which the Spanish State is apparently willing to follow submissively, regardless of the disastrous social consequences that it will have. I am talking about the announced increase in military spending to 2% of GDP - in fact, if all ministries are counted, and not just Defence, it would be closer to 3% of GDP and more than €33 million - precisely at a time of extreme social and economic difficulties. Increasing military spending seems to us to be an irresponsibility always, but more in this context. The always limited resources devoted to the purchase of weapons, tanks or aircraft will be withdrawn from social policies, public services, the promotion of economic activity and employment, and will very negatively affect the popular classes, especially the most impoverished, precarious and excluded sectors. But, of course, the American friend sends, so, yes, it will be the military and industrial complex of the United States that will benefit most from this decision. That is why we ask ourselves: what are the priorities of this Government? And we tell them: ask people if they prefer tanks or schools, airplanes or hospitals, bombs or more residences for older or dependent people. The BNG is clear. In addition, the expansion of NATO at this very moment means a bid to increase the bellicose escalation, when the real urgency is to stop the war and stop it as soon as possible, focusing all efforts on peaceful, diplomatic and dialogue paths to put an end to the conflict. That is why the BNG calls on the government to rectify its bellicose policies and, especially, in the follow-up of irresponsible decisions...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u9	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u10	Finished. ... of NATO and the European Union, with sanctions to the effect that it is the European workers and the peoples of Europe who suffer the most. As we are seeing, the consequences are not going to be paid by the powerful, who continue to get rich, we are going to be paid by the workers. We can avoid it, it's a matter of priorities. Those of the BNG are the peace, well-being and progress of the peoples.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u12	That is why, in coherence, we are voting no more for NATO. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u13	Thank you. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago a good communist friend - because one must have friends everywhere - shared with me the intervention of a former Panamanian diplomat in which he counted, as an anecdote - and they will allow me to start this intervention - how in the face of a question of infidelity In the couple a rational person will address this question by sitting with his partner and trying to understand what has led them to this situation. However - said that Panamanian diplomat - a good communist would do what he would is take a sack of stones and go to the embassy of the United States to throw them away. Last Tuesday, when I listened to the speeches of some groups in this House, in which they devoted more minutes to criticizing the United States than to defending the issue being addressed, which had to do with other matters, I was led by this anecdote of the Panamanian diplomat who today wanted to comment and share it with you, because I think it is important to remember why we are here today. We are here today and we were here on Tuesday because two sovereign States have freely decided to join NATO. They have done so in a democratic, free and sovereign way, which is something that we in my group applaud. And they have done so above all, ladies and gentlemen, because they have seen their territorial integrity and sovereignty threatened. Some people said at the beginning of this war that sending weapons was not the solution, and in my pacifist conviction I will tell you that I evidently did not live with joy sending weapons to such a war, because we all knew what it meant. However, ladies and gentlemen, we should all have been honest and also know what it meant not to send those weapons or what it meant to send them late, as we did, as a result of those decisions and positions in the Government that were not in favour of participating in this shipment of military aid. I say this because it has been said here today that in Russian logic there were no feminist or ecological movements - as it was said in this House too - that they could stop that invasion and that war conflict, they could only stop the military aid and the determination of the Ukrainian people to stop that territorial invasion. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in my parliamentary group we welcome the fact that Sweden and Finland have freely elected to join NATO. We share and celebrate the values of NATO, despite knowing its contradictions and believing that it is necessary to amend some of those contradictions, which have also been mentioned here today, but not for that reason, ladies and gentlemen, we will stop defending this treaty as a solution and a way of defending values, institutions and, above all, freedoms in many parts of the world. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u15	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u16	Thank you, President. We have been talking in this House for a long time about the horrors of the war in Ukraine, about which Donbas struck in 2014 and about which the devastation continues after the illegal invasion of February this year. Six months later, the picture is really tragic. First, because between offensives, counter-offensives, foreseeable reactions and deaths, displaced persons, forced to go to war against their will and those who are repressed for protesting do not stop growing and, second, because Europe itself, which was founded on the stated goal of seeking peace after two terrible world wars, is doing little and nothing to stop this misconception. Yesterday we read an article by Josep Borrell, the so-called head of European diplomacy, in which we do not talk about diplomacy once. And not only that, it is an article that irresponsibly undervalues the brutal price increase that war is causing in food, housing or energy, in which there is no measure to imbue the great speculators and in which almost everything is entrusted to the militaristic escalation. In vain, ladies and gentlemen, I have sought in this text - I repeat, of the head of European diplomacy - a phrase that alludes to the ceasefire in terms similar to those of the Secretary General of the United Nations, António Guterres, Pope Francis or great world leaders, such as former President of Brazil Inácio Lula da Silva or President of Colombia, Gustavo Petro. And honestly, ladies and gentlemen, if Europe today does not assume that Ukraine will not surrender, that Russia will not accept to be defeated without reacting and that, therefore, a negotiated exit must be sought for one reason: because it has capitulated to the geopolitical priorities of the United States. And it is that the priority of NATO, of the Pentagon itself, is that of not allowing Europe to have an autonomous security policy, its own, geared towards achieving peace; to drag Europe into a war that the United States, without putting it to death, would want to wage against Russia and China, even if that would expose the European, Asian, African or Latin American population to the certain risk of nuclear annihilation to environmental and social devastation as they had never seen before. [[Applauds]] To consent is not, as the fellow spokesman of the Socialist Party said, to stand on the side of the aggressors, but to submit to a military and economic oligarchy to which gives absolutely the fate of the aggressors in Ukraine, Palestine, Sahara or Kurdistan. And not only that, it is a military and economic oligarchy that will eventually rise to the most belligerent extreme right across Europe, as is already happening in Sweden. As republicans and internationalist republicans, and out of respect for the legacy of Noam Chomsky, Rossana Rossanda, Antoni Domènech and Olof Palme himself, we cannot be here. What parliaments like those in Sweden or Finland make the decision they consider appropriate, but it will not be on our behalf. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u17	Mr Asarta Cuevas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u18	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has highlighted and accelerated the decision of some border countries with the Russian Federation to apply for membership of the Atlantic Alliance. This is the case in Sweden and Finland, countries traditionally neutral but which, in view of Putin's threat to sovereignty and territorial integrity, have decided to join the aforementioned defensive organisation. Yes, Mr. Rego, defensive and not belligerent as you said last Tuesday. I would remind you that, according to the founding treaty, any European State that is in a position to promote the development of the principles of the treaty and to contribute to the security of the North Atlantic area can join NATO; in short, there are no vetoes in NATO. Mr Pisarello, look at the obsolete NATO military structure that was originally twelve countries and we will soon be thirty-two, many of them world-renowned for their economic and social development, as well as for their democratic level, and we continue to grow, Mr Pisarello. According to the procedure, we are at the moment when the current thirty members, unanimously, send the invitation letter to Sweden and Finland to start negotiations. Of course, we will be happy to admit them to the alliance, as both countries meet the conditions and decide freely to belong to the organization. Since its foundation, NATO has proved to be a defensive and dissuasive tool - Mr Iñarritu, defensive and dissuasive - necessary and decisive not only during the Cold War period, but throughout the later period and even today. Wide sectors of the left, and above all the extreme Spanish left, continue with their obsolete, caspian and rancio speech - this time, Mr Pisarello, rancio - of the pacifist idealism of the rejection of weapons, moving more in ideological arguments than in the real and pragmatic field of the strategic interests and security and defense of Spain. [[Applauds]] Felipe González was aware of the importance of belonging to NATO when in 1986 he took a turn in his policy towards the alliance asking for the yes in the referendum on this, instead of the electoral slogan of 'NATO, of entry, no'. Do you remember? Some of us who are already old, yes. The referendum was in favour of our entry and necessary for entry into the European Economic Community - today, the European Union - thus admitting that the initial rejection of the PSOE had been a mistake. As you can see, sometimes when it is rectified it is correct. This shift to the left in Spanish foreign policy in relation to the alliance was controversial and controversial for Spanish society, which was debated between the pacifist idealism of the rejection of arms and the important fear of being excluded from the group of more developed countries, influential and powerful in the world, arguments these last ones used by President González himself to request the yes in the referendum cited as advantages for the interests of Spain. The debate continues today by the extreme left and other separatist groups, as we have seen, that with their slogans of 'NATO no, bases out' it seems as if they do not realize what is happening in the heart of Europe and that that could happen to us to any other European country. Now more than ever, we would have to apply the fact that union is a force and, therefore, the more we are, the more difficult it will be to invade one Member State by another invader and aggressor, as has been the case. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, days before the Madrid Summit, Mr De Santiago, who is here, former Secretary of State and Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Spain, made a public statement, together with other members of the Executive, against NATO. This is the last of a series of actions that Unidad Podemos has been carrying out against one of the bulwarks and cornerstones of Spain's security scheme. These manifestations of a prominent member of the partner party of the current Spanish Government have their consequences on foreign policy, and in the VOX Parliamentary Group we express our absolute rejection of the erratic foreign policy of the Government. It would be good if, at least in State policies, they agreed, otherwise they would continue to be ridiculous and causing damage to Spain's image abroad. [[Applauds]] However, and despite showing our infinite distance to this government of which you are a part - the United We Can -, we, unlike you, do believe in the unity of Spain and its policies of state, in this case the one relating to national security, because we consider that the national interest is above any partisan struggle. That you, the Communists, catalogue the Atlantic Alliance as a terrorist organization - Mr Garzón, Minister of Consumer Affairs, and other Members of Parliament have expressed it in this Congress during this parliamentary term - at least it wants bold and offensive no longer for the declaration itself - that it is - but because you are defenders of a totalitarian, anti-democratic and genocidal ideology, which carries millions of innocent deaths behind your back. [[Applauds]] As good communists, you know no loyalty beyond your party. Therefore, I cannot ask you for it from institutions that you reject, but I do appeal to the Government of Spain to put order and coherence within its ranks, because the damage caused by these demonstrations is enormous. With the current mix of socialists, communists and separatists who make up the worst government directly or indirectly at the worst possible time it will be complicated, but we do not want to lose hope. Membership of NATO represents many advantages for its members, and for this reason it is increasingly the European countries and some members of the former Soviet Union who earnestly wish to join the alliance, but it also represents a series of commitments that must be fulfilled. As you well know, the main advantage - and it is also a fundamental commitment - is in article 5 of the treaty, whereby member countries undertake to respond militarily to an attack on one of their members. And among the commitments, in addition to the above, members undertake to participate, as far as possible, in the common budget, which, after the war in Ukraine, as you know, has increased and which the Government of Spain, at the last Summit in Madrid, has already committed itself to gradually rising to 2% of GDP. We will see that, and we will also see who is responsible for doing so, because it seems that the current government has the days counted, until the next elections.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u19	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u20	In short, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of VOX, the vote on the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO will be favourable. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, put on their feet]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u21	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. The invasion of Ukraine has posed a threat that goes far beyond geopolitical issues. Today, in eastern Europe, the future of our freedoms is being debated, as was the case since 1947 during the Cold War. And precisely because what we are playing is no more or less than the future, two countries such as Sweden and Finland, which had made neutrality their international identity, have abandoned this position by calling for their membership of NATO. I will not reveal anything new to you today, as my party president, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, personally communicated to the ambassadors of Finland and Sweden months ago that we were going to support their accession and, moreover, through several initiatives in this House, this request. Therefore, today is a great day for democracy, because Spain, through the Congress of Deputies, will redouble its commitment and support for the expansion of an organisation such as NATO, which is a fundamental pillar for the security of our European democracies, our security umbrellas. In fact, Spain began to be part of the alliance in May 1982, under the government of Leopoldo Calvo-Sotelo, when we had already proved to be a full and consolidated democracy, there is in vain an intimate connection between having a solid rule of law and the reliability and image of our country abroad. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, judgments such as yesterday's of the Supreme Court, which condemned two presidents of the Socialist Party and another dozen other high-ranking officials for the biggest corruption scandal in the use of public funds in the history of Europe, are a scourge that also affects our foreign policy. [[Applauds]] The ERE scandal weakens us, more so when, instead of asking the Spanish for forgiveness, what they are proposing is to forgive themselves. What will our NATO allies think when they see that not only are the presidents of their party condemned, socialists, but they are announced that the sentence will not be carried out and those convicted will be pardoned, even against the code of ethics of the Socialist Party, as Mr Espadas said? It is regrettable, as is being regrettable - and it is sad to say - the attitude of the Spanish Government towards the invasion of Ukraine. They have not missed the opportunity to demonstrate the permanent divisions and fights within the executive - the socialist spokesman calls it an unchecked phone - and the lack of commitment to Ukraine and the rest of the allies. Today, another example will be given, as Podemos has announced that it will not support Finland and Sweden's entry into NATO that Sánchez himself had pledged to support. This shows that Sánchez is only president of a part of the government, one more chapter in the extravagances to which we are accustomed. The problem is that it is at the cost of Spain's credibility and reliability, something that is hard to achieve and that you are squandering at full hands. We saw it on Tuesday in Mr Pisarello's speech, and today he has repeated it again: once again, the European Union is being attacked, Putin is being appeased and the victims are being called executioners. They are the only government in Europe that is a member of NATO in which one half is in favour of the alliance and the other claims that it is a criminal organization, manifests itself against it and wants us to get out of it. Isn't this an extravagance? They are the only Government in which one half is in favour of sending arms to Ukraine - even if it does not - and the other opposes military support for Ukrainians, perhaps because Putin is a man of peace. Isn't this an extravagance? They are the only government in Europe whose president is committed to reaching 2% of GDP for defence investment and the other half threatens to reject budgets if this is achieved. Isn't this an extravagance? They are the only European government that will vote differently in the enlargement of NATO. Isn't this an extravagance? Look at the extravagance of the Government that we are discussing today, an initiative that one part of the Government considers urgent to discuss and approve, and the other rejects. In Europe only Turkey and Podemos have shown reluctance to enter Sweden and Finland. There is no extravagance in the Sánchez Government's joke. Last Tuesday, Mr Rodríguez 1, spokesman for the Socialist Group, did not have enough adjectives to underline what the NATO summit in Madrid had meant, the Maria Moliner was short. Your problem, Mr Rodriguez 2, is that those who vote and protest against this historic NATO summit are on the Council of Ministers. Your problem, Mr Rodríguez 3, is that those who refuse to support Sánchez's budgetary commitments to NATO are on the Council of Ministers. Those who reject military shipments to Ukraine are on the Council of Ministers. Those who do not support them today sit on the Council of Ministers. Those who dislike what you consider historic sit on the Council of Ministers or call them an investiture bloc. [[Applauds]] Perhaps those who are against what Europe is and means are also in the Council of Ministers. This may seem sarcastic to you and even, in days like today, painful, but for the Spaniards it is dramatic. With what face do you demand the vote of the People's Parliamentary Group on any of these issues if none of your partners - those who sit on the Council of Ministers who gave them the presidency - support them? You only have the support of your partners for everything that means weakening the state, but for everything that means strengthening it - and NATO and its enlargement is - you have no more shoulder than PP. And, like the capricious teenager, instead of recognizing him ignores him. This is his drama; this is the concave mirror in which Sanchez has transformed the Socialist Party, a party in which, today, wearing a tie is a symbol of intolerable and disloyal insubordination. In the end, there is nothing more rebellious in Sánchez's Spain than having a sense of state, the sense of state with which my group will vote yes to this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u23	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez Prieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u24	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, who wants this war? Why are we here today, in this debate? Let us be honest: because after making all the diplomatic efforts of the world, using all the possible techniques of deterrence, Russia decided to undertake a large-scale invasion against the people of Ukraine, a 1 Mr Hispan Iglesias de Ussel refers to Mr Gutiérrez Prieto. 2 Idem. 3 Idem. illegal, unnecessary and unjust war that has caused thousands of innocent deaths, millions of displacements, possible war crimes. And we, above all, cannot be equidistant. Those of us who defend the people cannot forget or be equidistant with the suffering of other peoples. We cannot be equidistant between the aggressors and the aggressors, between the invaders and the invaders, between the threatened and those who threaten. We cannot be equidistant, frivolous or naive, because before the war in Ukraine was the annexation of Crimea; because before Crimea was Russia's exit from the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the exit from the Treaty of Open Skies; because before all this was Putin's most obvious intrusion into established democracies like the United States, like Britain, like Spain; because before all this was Georgia. And all this with a double objective: first, to expand Russia's influence by returning to the bloc policy that caused so much damage to growth and international security in the twentieth century and, secondly, to destabilize free and consolidated democracies. That is why, when I hear that today in this debate we should be talking about peace, it seems to me that we are making a terrible balance between those who suffer and those who cause suffering, because we are the only ones who want to talk about peace. So when I hear about that mantra that what we should be doing today is talking about peace, what I would like is for some people to take advantage of this debate to present some idea of how to achieve it without provoking the surrender of the Ukrainian people to defend their own sovereignty, because they are also a sovereign people who need us to defend their own sovereignty, their security and their freedoms, except for fellow Members and Members of other groups, that you do not have an idea to achieve peace but a slogan; that you do not have a solution, but an excuse. We therefore believe that at this moment, in the face of this illegal, unjust and unnecessary war, we must be serious and think and remember that this illegal and unjust war has made all countries reposition their postulates, that there is a turning point. Because what this unexpected and unjust war has done is that Sweden and Finland, historically neutral countries, without military tradition, are calling for their incorporation into the Atlantic Alliance. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you sincerely ask for your entry because the peoples of Sweden and Finland suddenly, from February to May, have had a tremendous desire for war, a tremendous desire to attack third countries, or because they feel threatened and seek security? I sincerely believe that all the members of this House have the answer: Sweden and Finland seek to protect themselves, not to attack; they ask and seek to deter, not to fight; they seek freedom and peace, not threats and conflicts, and with the majority support of their peoples, to whom we also have an obligation to listen and the moral duty to attend. That call is what we hear today and respond to as a result - I repeat - of an illegal, unjust and unnecessary war, such as the Putin war in Ukraine, but also as an extension of the historic NATO summit organized by the Government of Spain. Because yes, Mr Hispan - Mr Gutiérrez, if you don't mind 4 - the summit has been historic, of course. And nothing happens because you ever know him, really; he doesn't produce hives and, if he does, I give him an antihistamine, but sometimes from the opposition it would be good if he behaved patriotically and talked well about Spain and what Spain gets. [[applause]] Pay attention to me, the vitamin of the patriotism of the good - like cholesterol - also increases when since the opposition you speak well of Spain sometime. Frankly, the summit has been historic, yes, because the moment is historic and because the agreements produced there are also historic. You were from the beginning of the legislature denigrating and discrediting the NATO summit, you were even, on the basis of initiatives, trying to discredit the agreements you did not know because you were in the middle of negotiations, among other things because you believed that the concept of the southern flank would be left out. I would have liked it if, after so long, so many months of talking badly about the NATO summit and saying that security was going to be left out on the southern flank, today they would have recognized the success of diplomacy of the Government of Spain by achieving not only a success in form but also in substance, because the introduction of the southern flank, the historic introduction of 360-degree protection into a concept of NATO security, was achieved by this Government at the Madrid Summit. And you, if you're real patriots, you should have recognized him. [[Applauds]] It is a historic result because we consolidate NATO as an alliance of free, voluntary democracies that unite to defend peace from diplomacy and deterrence as the main strategy; because a new 360-degree security concept is introduced, as I said, because it makes us look at the southern flank for the first time; because it introduces new concepts of threats, such as hybrid wars. All this is what makes today that no country wants to leave and that there is waiting list to be able to enter. 4 The Lord Hispan Iglesias of Ussel had called Rodriguez to the Lord Gutiérrez Prieto. But first of all, what does the People's Party do? The People's Party is bringing back debates today that have nothing to do with it, such as the ERE of Andalusia. Tell him, Mr. Hispan, that you speak of the EREs of Andalusia, when a president who has not taken a euro has been unjustly condemned, with what you have with box B, with the extras, with the illegal seats financed illegally and with the hard disks of Bárcenas! Fuck you, honestly! [[Rumors.-Protests.-Applause.]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u26	That you use this debate so seriously at such a difficult time to talk about, with the depth of this debate and with what is needed this debate with what you are carrying in, frankly, I am very disappointed, Mr Hispan. It's what's always happened historically.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u27	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u28	I told you the other day - and I conclude with this, Mr President - stop looking at the straw in the eye of other parliamentary groups and see the beam in your own eye. Because it is true that we may or may not agree on the extension of NATO to Sweden and Finland - we do agree because we defend the general good of Spain - but you have not voted in favour of the labour reform that extends workers' rights and the 20 cent discount, which helps all carriers. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u29	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u30	They didn't support this.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u31	Your Honor, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u32	You know why? Because, whenever there is talk of the general interest, some fail or others fail, but those who are always there are the Socialist Group and the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u33	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u34	We proceed to the opinion of the bill amending Act 13/2011 of 27 May 2011 on Game Regulation. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also fix a position at this time, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. We continue, in the absence of the Member. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u35	Good morning. As long as the crisis stabilizes and the crisis situation becomes normal and normal, precariousness, dependence and lack of freedom are also stabilized. Ladies and gentlemen, we have talked about ludopathy on several occasions and, despite some changes, the problem persists. To avoid dependence we must ensure stable material conditions; the game must cease to be the gateway to this precarious system. Moreover, instead of focusing on which exit doors exist, we must focus on preventing people from being forced to look for doors. But even assuming that we are not going to eradicate ludopathy until we change this economic system until we ensure a stable place to live, a stable and dignified job and a quality time, assuming all this, we find that the game continues to be promoted and that it continues to enjoy a series of inexplicable privileges. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill represents some progress, but we should also bear in mind that this law has missed an opportunity, an opportunity to eliminate the privileges enjoyed by the gambling sector and that this government has not yet had the courage to eliminate. Three amendments have not been incorporated and today we want to defend them here. Firstly, the specific taxation system in Ceuta and Melilla must be put an end at once. When this law is passed, there will continue to be a tax haven in Ceuta and Melilla. What does it make sense for online gambling to have this exception, when it has an impact on the whole Spanish state and also on a global level? Secondly, we must put an end to the reduction the People's Party made from the game tax. When this law is passed, it will remain 20% and will continue to tax less, even, than funeral services or a bicycle. We have to raise it to 30% because our mental health requires it. Thirdly, despite the fact that its Government does not have the dignity of raising the tax, the autonomous communities should be allowed to increase it to 30%. By the time this law is passed, you will have prevented governments from acting as the catalan if you want to. They still have the opportunity to do so for the dignity of all the people who vote for us and for the dignity of all the people who listen to us. Because even today we have some chilling data on ludopathy, we must act. Let's end these privileges. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u36	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Castillo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u37	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The bill amending Act 13/2011 of 27 May 2011 on the regulation of the game was published on 25 March, the main objective of which is to strengthen the control of sports competitions in order to avoid their manipulation and fraud in betting. I would like to begin by thanking my colleague Carmen Riolobos for the work she has done with me in the development of this law. [[Applauds]] What a priori seemed to be an incomplete, but positive, legislative amendment has ended up becoming more of a legislative cog of one Government which, to those already known and suffering diplomatic, technical and energy cogs, has added, with excessive naturality, a perverse legislative technique. And before Mr Viondi comes down to this rostrum and sectarianizes my words, I would like to make it clear to you that the People's Party will defend the 47 million consumers and users, and in particular all those, and their families, who suffer the consequences of illegal game being uncontrolled or mismanaged. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and of the United We can, you have introduced by the back door five amendments that have nothing to do with the regulation of the game and that will directly modify the consolidated text of the Law on the Defense of Consumers and Users and do so to alleviate their serious errors, the serious errors introduced in the Royal Decree 24/2021. The reform you carried out of the consumer sanctioning regime left consumers unprotected, invaded the autonomous powers, harming the autonomous communities and consumer associations, and forced them to open bilateral commissions with Galicia and Catalonia. And those muds, these muds, ladies and gentlemen. And by focusing on the regulation of the game, which is what we should be talking about, I would like to point out to you that we agree to strengthen the functions of the General Gambling Management Directorate of this government and also to assess the effectiveness of the safe and responsible gambling measures developed by operators and directed at groups of risk players. This government will always find us in defense of the most vulnerable and in support of players, or potential players, and their families. I'll tell you more. We also agree to give the status of law the functions of preventing, combating fraud and harming parties, and protecting the integrity of sport, betting markets and, of course, sports ethics. It was precisely we, the People's Party, who, in 2017, within the General Branch of Game Inspection, created the Global Betting Market Research Service. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that you are not concerned or concerned with the prevention of ludopathy or the detection or control of illegal gambling. It is you, ladies and gentlemen, who in 2022 allocate EUR 55 million for the promotion of the game and allocate a little more than EUR 2 million to prevent the problem game. You clearly indicate in your hiring procedures that you intend to make the game attractive to the younger ones, especially for those who are in the range between eighteen and twenty-four years, that underdeveloped segment, as you define it. Our group is putting forward an amendment which we are coming to defend today, Amendment No 41, which aims to introduce within the law, within three months, a national action plan in the game sector which sets uniform criteria for the national territory as regards the prevention and defence of consumers and users in the game sector, which defends these consumers both in the public and in the private sphere and which harmonizes those criteria in matters of competition and also in matters of advertising and all this, of course, while respecting the competition framework of the autonomous communities and in a dialogue and consensus, ladies and gentlemen, which you do not like. It is not normal for the private game to limit its advertising activity in the interests of such prevention and for the public game to have channels such as social media, radio or sports press without being governed by the same principles. To this end, we call for your support, ladies and gentlemen, to establish homogeneous and consensual criteria with the Autonomous Communities for the effective prevention and defence of consumers and users in the gaming sector. We are here because you have put empty and contentless excuses such as, for example, that if it is not possible because it does not agree with the Constitution, that if you do not have competences... No, ladies and gentlemen, of course uniform criteria can be established in a consensual manner with the Autonomous Communities. What cannot and should not be done is what you are doing with this law, collecting more arbitrarily deciding on those who sanction and invading the powers of the autonomous communities. Let yourself be left, ladies and gentlemen, by the President's day-to-day series, which we pay all the Spaniards, and really focus on the important thing, in all those families who suffer the consequences of the game. And if you do not want to, because it is already clear that no, focus on inflation, on the price of light, on the price of fuel, on that of gas and on all those problems that the Spaniards have, but please do so, leaving ideology and its occurrences, to be, at home, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You don't care about families, workers, or businesses, who cross taxes and burdens, you want not to touch the taxes you collect through the game because there are many advisors to pay and a mastodontic structure to maintain. Ladies and gentlemen, if something has become clear to a large majority of Spaniards, it is that Garzón has already played the lottery without playing, because his ministry spends, but does not produce. [[Applauds]] How much will it cost for taxpayers to create the central government's branch of inspection and sanctioning procedures? How much is that going to cost us, ladies and gentlemen? What the People's Party is asking is contemplated in Royal Decree 495/2020, which you created yourself, so we hope to count on your support. I'm done, President. You are not going to do anything because you need to continue to maintain this mastodontic structure and what is less worrying to you are the families who suffer the consequences of the game, but the People's Party is going to defend the Spaniards and their interests, it is going to promote measures that allow them to be efficient in prevention policies and good practices and it is going to work every day to ensure that what this government demands of citizens and private sector companies is also applied to the public sector.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u38	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u39	I'm done, President. Give you an example, ladies and gentlemen, although it must be acknowledged that ministers and their advisers cannot be asked for exemplaryness when the President is not an example of anything. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u40	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bel Accensi has joined us in defending his amendments so that they do not fall apart. If Mrs Rosique and Mrs Castillo have no problem, we give you the floor. [[Settlements]] Mr Accensi, we give you the floor, because it has been incorporated, so that your amendments do not fall. You have the floor, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u41	Thank you very much, President, and thank you to the Republican Group and the People's Group for your deference. I simply support all the amendments by the Plural Group and, in particular, the one that is still alive by the Democratic Party, Amendment No 30, similar to another that we had tabled and have negotiated. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the law we are debating today, which amends the Game Regulation Act, is one more step in the protection of game users and especially those at risk. This aim is fully shared by the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, which has been competent in this area for many years in the Autonomous Community of Cantabria. Precisely our president, Miguel Ángel Revilla, has for many years denounced the scourge that gambling addiction is causing in youth. Cantabria started in 2018 a responsible gaming process that has derived from a series of measures to avoid the harmful effects that the game can do if not made a responsible consumption of it. I am going to make a brief review of these measures, as it is precisely this spirit that will determine our vote on this rule that we are debating today. The first decision in the field of this policy was the adoption of Decree 204/2019, which extended the suspension of the granting of authorisations for the operation of type B1 recreational machinery in the Autonomous Community of Cantabria. After this measure, in December 2019, one of the most important ones was adopted, when the Law in force of 2016 was amended to introduce as a new requirement to fulfill by the gambling establishments a regime of distances between them, as well as between educational centers and mental health units. Until then there was no limitation or planning in our community for the opening of new playrooms. Next, we approve that we consider the best measure of prevention against the access of minors and people with pathological gambling problems, that the establishment of a compulsory admission service in all gambling establishments by means of the decree regulating the admission and registration service of bans on access to the game, which establishes a system of homogenous admission in all gambling establishments, including the automatic management of the registration of bans. Finally, in June of the same year, Cantabria has passed a new gambling law aimed at protecting minors and the most vulnerable from the risks of non-responsible use. However, the limitation of the autonomous community to exercise regulation is limited to face-to-face gambling and requires a complement to state regulation that protects online users. For that reason, we will support the bill that incorporates new protection measures and gives the status of law to instruments that protect working groups. The principle of social responsibility for gambling advertising is incorporated, which cantabria law also contains, with consequent prohibitions on sponsorship and advertising. We fully agree with the interconnection of interdiction records. In fact, Cantabria has been working with the ministry on the corresponding regulatory and technological changes and, therefore, already has the duties done. Registration and admission service are the fundamental tools in face-to-face gambling for the protection of vulnerable groups. As for the strengthening of the functions of the General Directorate of the Game and the fight against fraud in sports betting through the SIGMA tool - indeed, the sector of the population between fifteen and forty years is in which the pathological game in the sports field has grown the most - the State Security Forces and Bodies will transfer personal data, facilitating effective coordination in the face of fraudulent practices. And I make a request regarding the booty boxes of video games - a danger for children and teenagers -: we request that the new guidelines be set as soon as possible. There must be detailed guidelines for the advertising and commercial communications of these products, because minors are vulnerable to misleading advertising, ensuring sufficient information for responsible and, above all, conscious consumption. As faced in Cantabria in the drafting of the Game Regulation Act, this policy requires responsibility on the part of everyone, educators, families, health care workers, young people, the sick, the gaming sector and, in this case, the video game sector to make the game synonymous with enjoyment and not risk. To alleviate the debate a little bit, we must also say that we cannot demonise the game in general, since it is an activity totally rooted in human nature. And not only is it a matter of leisure and enjoyment, but it has given rise, even, to powerful mathematical disciplines, such as probability theory or game theory, which, as your lordships know, has a great application in both the economy and politics. And all that without forgetting that this activity provides not only fun, but also illusion and hope to the people who play the lottery, to put an example, which - said to be by the way - also provides penguins benefits to the State, or the contributions that everyone makes in Spain through the game for charitable activities, etc. Returning to the spirit of the norm, to the most serious and negative part of this activity, the cantabra law started for its drafting of the National Strategy on Addictions 2017-2024, which characterizes the pathological game as a multi-causal disorder involving socio-economic, psychological and biological risk factors. Cantabria looked at minors and the possibilities of playing online, and this text incorporates preventive measures that avoid their assimilation as a standardized option of youth leisure. We share the amendments to the General Law for the Defense of Consumers and Users, as they guarantee the sanctioning power of the State according and proportionally with the objective of prevention against possible abuses by companies in this field. It also incorporates ancillary measures, which also provides for the Law on the Regulation of the Cantabrian Gambling, such as the closure of establishments or services, which is understood to reinforce the financial penalty. For all that I have said, my vote is in favour of the adoption of this law, calling for these developments to be contemplated in a short space of time in order to achieve the objectives pursued, since, as I have said before, there are some sectors of the population in which the pathological game is growing in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u44	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u45	Thank you, President. I am speaking very briefly on behalf of the Basque Group. In the Commission which adopted the opinion of the draft law, we have already made clear our vote in favour of this amendment of the law and what our position was. We stressed, above all, the need for prevention and the need for the game to be determined. We must also bear in mind that there are autonomous communities competent in this area. We are aware that in the autonomous communities, which are competent in this matter, this is already regularized and we wanted to make it known, by means of an amendment that the Basque Group tabled, that corresponds to the actions of the state security forces and bodies that will be carried out and will be carried out in cooperation with the autonomous community in those cases in which it has its own security forces and bodies; in the case of Euskadi, the Autonomous Police or the Ertzaintza. In addition, in cases where the Autonomous Communities have their own security forces and bodies - as we have said - these security forces and bodies will also have the status of assignees of personal data provided to them by the General Directorate for Game Planning, and the transfer of data will be regulated in the appropriate agreement signed by the respective competent bodies. It is the amendment which we are also negotiating with the Socialist Group and which has certainly improved the text. The transfer of data is not only a matter for the security forces because of the persecution of fraud or criminal offences, but also because it is a fully comprehensive police force, for example, in the case of the Autonomous Police of Euskadi, the Ertzaintza. Therefore, this annotation, and since it is incorporated in the text what we had proposed, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u46	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. The Spanish liberals consider that the autonomy of the individual is one of the great principles to be protected and promoted from the institutions, favoring the exercise of this autonomy and removing the barriers and obstacles that can prevent individuals, individuals and citizens from making autonomous decisions. That is why we, instead of banning and coercing, prefer to design measures that have to do with incentives or'disincentives and, above all - most importantly - to provide adequate information on the risks and opportunities of each decision to the citizens, so that it is then they who have the power to choose freely. In the game sector, this principle must be even more evident in our view. While some parties seek to stifle the companies in the sector economically, we accompany these companies in their work of being responsible and offering increasingly satisfying and, above all, safe experiences for users. While others also hide their heads pretending that there are no problems with the game, we liberals are betting on reinforcing that information, precisely by the hand of the sector itself to prevent, detect and avoid problematic gambling behaviors. In short, we believe that we combine freedom and responsibility, which, in our view, must be done with adult citizens. In this spirit, we have tabled seven amendments to this bill, more than any other parliamentary group, which demonstrates citizens' commitment to the gambling sector and to promoting their safe development in our country. Thanks to the work we have done and the negotiations with the Ministry of Consumer Affairs itself, we have managed to introduce four amendments that improve the original text of the law. First, we liberals have set for the first time in the law standards to ensure responsible advertising for the game. In this way, we are able to prevent gambling advertising aimed at minors who use minors; we are able to guarantee equality and non-discrimination in advertising; we ensure that gambling advertising does not present the game as a quick way to economic or social success or present the non-players as persons associated with failure, and we also prevent the game from being presented as a vital or even important element in life, thus preventing problematic or obsessive gambling behaviors. Secondly, we have introduced two amendments that order the chaos of the autonomous legislation on the game, which have created a fragmentation that harms not only the equality of the Spaniards, but the very experience and well-being of the players. For example, we have created a General Register of Interdictions of Access to the Central Game for the whole State, which means that if a player is registered in an autonomous register of prohibited for having problematic gambling behavior, that this player cannot access other gaming centers in another autonomous community because it would be absolutely absurd. We believe that in this way we protect both players in their rehabilitation and their families, especially avoiding relapses. In short, one more step in favor of the responsibility in the game and the security of the players themselves. On the other hand, we have also amended the law to prevent Spanish gambling companies from being disadvantaged by inconsistencies between autonomous laws and state legislation. Previously, this chaos could end up causing companies to lose their operating license unjustifiably, leaving them, in addition, at a disadvantage in the face of companies engaged in online gambling. With our modification, we have eliminated this inefficiency and have re-levelled the playing field, so that the gaming companies can compete on equal terms and, in this way, they can continue to strive to provide the most enjoyable and safe experiences possible for the players. Finally, we have succeeded in introducing an additional provision that reflects that Citizens is a party oriented towards the future and modernity. Our position in favour of the creation of a national cryptocurrency strategy is well known, so that Spain can become a European and global reference in the safe development of this sector which has revolutionised finance and the technological sector. However, the advancement of cryptocurrency goes far beyond the financial sector, opening the door to new technologies that have applications in other sectors, as is the case. The amendments for which we are asking for support relate to the amendment which states that there must be an identity check at the entrance to the playrooms, so as to ensure that access to minors is not allowed. In this way, minors will be more protected from possible problematic gambling behaviors, although they will be able to decide whether to play, taking into account these risks and opportunities, once they reach the age of majority. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the work of our parliamentary group, the liberal group, has been exemplary in this process. We have been the group that has tabled the most amendments and also the group that has incorporated the most amendments into the final text. We have been pioneers in defending the interests of this sector and we have been the only ones who have looked forward to the future with optimism and willingness to make life easier for both businesses and users. Despite the lack of loyalty shown by the Spanish Government during the parliamentary process, we believe that our contributions are going to bring about a significant change to the better for the gambling sector in Spain. That is why we will vote in favour of the opinion. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u49	Good morning. Four years ago we raised and defended in this House the need to have a regulation of online betting and betting houses that had been in a drawer for a long time. Today, with the coalition government, with the impetus of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, we have a legislative framework for the commercial communication of online bets and today we close the work of the game regulation project. Until this Government arrived, all these changes were in that drawer. Now we know that protection must begin with those who are in a situation of greater vulnerability to this substanceless addiction, which is ludopathy. With this amendment of the law, we raise the general principles that must be respected by the advertising campaigns of games in order, in this way, to shield the progress that has already been achieved in the Royal Decree of commercial communications, guaranteeing the protection of society and, in particular, of those people who are in a more vulnerable situation. In addition, the law regulates the signing of cooperation agreements between the Government and the autonomous communities to ensure that the data of persons who are prohibited from playing are connected between the different administrations; this is a demand long requested by the associations to combat ludopathy. The commission is also brought to the legal rank, which ensures that there are no sports stakes for bets. One of the improvements that We can see as key is that of allowing consumer associations to participate in sanctioning procedures. For this reason, clarification is made on the initial text, ensuring that the maximum guarantees of the sanctioning procedures are put in place, as reflected in the recently adopted law. Finally, I should like to end with the amendments on the original opinion itself. We stress that there is a legal status for the improvements agreed with the Autonomous Communities to set up the sanctioning regime for large consumer frauds that go beyond the autonomous sphere. The General Administration of the State also assumes that competition for consumer fraud affecting several countries. On the other hand, I have to tell Mrs Castillo, the spokesman for the PP who has intervened, that I do not quite understand this enormous commitment when, precisely, the one that has been in a drawer all these previous years has also had to do with the actions of the Rajoy government and the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I would also suggest that you speak more with the Autonomous Communities, that you know the enormous consensus that exists in this opinion and in these amendments that were adopted in the Commission and that you also do your homework. Because what we find, as is the case with Andalusia, is that there are municipalities, municipalities of their own sign - talk with the City Hall and its comrades in Malaga - that they want to be able to limit it to the educational centers of the betting premises and from the Andalusian Junta they have not been allowed. [[Applauds]] So, if we care about this, let it be with facts and not with speeches in the rostrum. Also, I wanted to talk to you about something that Asturian calculist Alberto Coto says. The probability is counterintuitive. They would be surprised at the very high percentage of chances in this Chamber that at least two people will be on the same day. As Coto says, the betting world is pure mathematics, there is no intuition, there is no point in intuition. Can the system be won? Yes, but let's remember that in this he always wins the bank and no number - and this serves for the lotteries, because they are also part of the so-called games of chance - he has more chances than another, because this, the emotional, the hunchback, is nothing. Although, how can we not believe in the emotional, if we are taught success, the punctual correctness only and hide that overwhelming majority of failures. These are hidden, as the terrible health effects have been hidden for a long time, especially in recent years for the health of the youngest people and for the most popular neighbourhoods that have suffered from the proliferation of gambling houses, while, by the way, they were closing in the most comfortable neighbourhoods, because, look, these things are not random. We must not fail to recognize the work of collectives and associations such as those that make up FEJAR and also of organizations involved in working with people who are addicted with or without substance. When institutions did not do so, they have sustained the care, support and recovery of many people. Today we have texts like this for all the work that precedes us. As I have already said on other occasions, laws have two effects: the direct and logical one - which regulates and recognizes rights, protections and triggers the mechanisms for us to exercise them - and that of the construction or reaffirmation of our collective imagination. To have black on white the determination of a State in the face of so-called games of chance is a change of mindset of conception of them. Therefore, it is to celebrate that some international reference video games, such as the Assassin's Creed, no longer include loop boxes. It makes no sense to continue linking the playful experience to the betting dynamics. [[The lady]] If you want, we'll move it to the analog field. It's not the same thing to be throwing coin after coin in the bar slot, that to be throwing a game with friends and friends dominoes in that same bar. Playing is something very important, it is the experience of socialization from the playful; it is important in childhood and it continues to be so in all stages of our life, because it is the way we know each other, in which we relate. And because there's something in a productive world... By the way, overproduction, it turns out that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs is one of those that has given a greater degree of fulfillment to the commitments made by this Government and, moreover, neither the Ministry of Consumer Affairs nor any other are companies to be speaking in productive terms, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] In addition, let us remember that in a production society it is very important to recognize that some things do not have to have a purpose, but they have to serve in their process. That's what the game's about. Talking degamement as if we want to say random or gambling houses is cheating, because it is not characterized either by sociability - I am finishing, president - nor by the process, but it is the expectation before the result. To talk about gambling to refer to practices that are susceptible to generating addiction, that have destroyed neighborhoods, that have destroyed families, villages, that expose the future of our youth to high risks on many occasions is to twist language and disguise something that requires the regulation, control and awareness that this implies. This coalition government will continue along this path with the impetus of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to refer to the amendments which have been maintained and which will be voted on in advance of the opinion. With regard to Amendment No 30, by Mr Bel Accensi and Mrs Cañadell Salvia, for the deletion of Article 13.2(k), it seems reasonable to us that the current wording represents a genuine sanctioning disproportionateness and is inconsistent with the limitation of business risk. Amendment 41 of the People's Parliamentary Group assumes the postulates of VOX against the regulatory differences generated by the autonomous communities. We congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen, on the fight against the autonomous state, which only generates inequality and division among the Spanish. [[Applauds]] The Republican Group, with its amendments 42 and 44, aligned with Mrs Illamola Dausà's amendment 8, and 43, reiterates the non-law proposal on the increase of gambling tax and the limitation of its advertising, discussed already in this plenary session on 30 November 2021. The initiative repeated today was only intended to deepen the disruptive factor of the autonomous state, so we will vote against it. All this as far as the bottom is concerned. With regard to the forms, I am obliged to stress the complete absence of the debate proper to the handling of any legislative initiative, the absence of debate imposed by the groups supporting in this House the coalition of the Social-Communist Government of President Sánchez. These parliamentary groups once again converted the first meeting of the Paper into the only session of the Paper. The institutional abuse that represents the absence of parliamentary debate has been accomplished with forms lacking not only in the minimum parliamentary courtesy and elementary education, but also in the fulfilment of the obligations of parliamentary procedure, by failing to make known beforehand the texts which were intended to be included in the report of the House, by stealing the reading and the debate of the same as provided for in Rule 72.2 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Another example of an anomalous and anti-democratic development has been the inclusion of the five amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can say that, as the lawyer has stated in the paper's report, they do not seem to meet the requirements of homogeneity and congruence with the draft law, in accordance with the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. The Bureau should have ignored them by rating them. What is the relationship between the prosecution of tax fraud and the manipulation of sports betting, which is the subject of this bill, and the reform of the sanctioning regime of the General Law for the Defense of Consumers and Users? Well, absolutely no relationship. The abdication of the Bureau's obligation to monitor amendments before they are adopted significantly affects the handling of the legislative initiatives of this House. How far will the degradation of the highest institutions of the State by the parties that support this social-communist government go? [[Applauds]] As for the claimed majority, which is a recurring appeal by the parliamentary groups that support the Frankenstein Government to justify these democratic abuses, I must remind you that the majority that have formed in this Congress of Deputies has been the result of the lie and betrayal not only of President Sánchez, but of each and every member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because during the election campaign they repeatedly promised their voters that they would not agree with Unite Podemos or Bildu. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, your majority lacks all legitimacy, as it is the result of the deception of the Spanish people, the sole holder of national sovereignty, of which you, by your deception and betrayal, have become unworthy and illegitimate representatives. [[Applauds]] I appeal to all those socialist parliamentarians to show a minimum of dignity and commitment to the PSOE voters. They owe a minimum of fidelity to their electoral promises and therefore have to oppose the manoeuvres of the autocrat President Sánchez for the destruction of the rule of law and the separation of powers. Each of you is held responsible for everything that happens as you continue to give your votes to the betrayal of the Socialist Party voters, leaving them in the hands of the most radical and sectarian left, represented by the Communist Party, the ideology responsible for hundreds of millions of crimes in the past 20th century. They have also been abandoned in the hands of those who jail, honor and represent the ruthless assassins of ETA and, finally, in the hands of those who, with another attempt at a coup d'état against the territorial integrity of Spain, are constantly threatening us. [[applause]] Your votes, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in the service of the autocrat President Sánchez, serve only to keep President Sánchez travelling in Falcon while the Spaniards cannot afford to pay for their cars' petrol and are increasingly struggling to access basic food and goods. Stop the maneuvers of destruction of the democratic rule of law, such as the assault on the Constitutional Court, the last guarantee to the repeated abuse of the fundamental freedoms and rights of the Spaniards that President Sánchez claims with the help of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not asking you for anything you haven't done before. I will read you the October 1, 2016 column of the PSOE newspaper: After a dramatic day, with screams, cries and insults, it came to eight and twenty o'clock in the evening, when Sanchez agreed that the members of the federal committee would vote hand in hand on his proposal to hold a primaries to elect the secretary general. He was defeated by 132 votes against and 107 in favour; a minute later he announced his resignation. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to obtain the just solution of these Courts and the convening of elections that would allow the Spaniards to exercise their legitimate right to elect representatives worthy of their trust. From VOX we will continue to put all legal, political and social means in place to put an end to this government's lies, ruin and misery. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u52	Mr Viondi has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u53	Good morning to everyone and everyone. When I was preparing my speech on this subject, I was thinking of reaching a point of consensus, because the opinion of the law came out without any vote against, in a serene debate on a problem, which is the game and the measures that the Government is taking through this reform of the law, but it is true that I cannot hold back listening to the spokesman for VOX, because apart from the series of lies and repetitions that it does here, there is one thing that has particularly hurt me, which is the work as a Member. Mr de VOX has complained about the motion, and I remind you that the VOX Group has tabled zero amendments to this reform of the law. [[Applauds]] I ask you a question: when a parliamentary group makes zero amendments, is it insolvency or vagrancy? [[Applauds]] I think it is my duty to thank my parliamentary group, and especially the leadership, for having trusted me in this speech, and the colleagues who have been with me in the paper, my colleague Marisol and my colleague José Ramón, for the work we have done, and also for the collaboration of practically all the parliamentary groups. This reform comes from a gambling law of 2011, because from that reform of the law there were seven years of People's Party government, seven years where online gambling, state competition, grew enormously; and there was a law of the jungle. Here, we all understand that from 2011 to 2017 there was no problem, you created it with that law of the jungle; and the way you normally act: weak with the powerful and strong with the weak. Why? Because you didn't do a single measure to control the online game and the face-to-face game - which I'll tell you later - you didn't do any control; and here we saw how at all times, at all times, at every break from a game, at the end, at first, in basketball, in football, at all, we had the bet, bet, bet, win, win, win. All that was with your Government, during those years you did absolutely nothing. From the face-to-face game it is enough to remember what you do where you rule: today you still do not take the necessary measures. Therefore, it was a necessary reform, it was necessary to develop a stable and secure framework in the online game. In addition, it was a commitment of the Spanish Government, the coalition Government. It is true that we have made changes: apart from this reform of the law, which is a compromise, we have taken out the real decree of publicity, which limited the advertising of sports betting, and we have seen how there has been a clear decrease in the social perception among the majority of citizens that gambling is a major problem in society, but it is still present. That's why the royal decree was made, that's why the self-prohibited registration has been carried out; it's a law that's moving forward. As in all laws, each parliamentary group always has the right to say that there could have been more, but I believe that there is a general consensus among all parliamentary groups, which is reflected in the fact that no one voted against, that it was necessary. I therefore ask that what was specified by the vote in the Commission be raised here. Mrs Castillo says that it is a piece of legislation, when consumer issues have been introduced. Mrs Castillo, all these issues have been made with the request, agreement and consensus of each and every one of the autonomous communities, who will govern, also those of the People's Party. Therefore, what you consider to be a back door is a consensus of all administrations in an area where action had to be taken because this was the case in the directive. You tell me you know what I was going to say. That's the good thing: being socialist means being predictable, but, above all, being coherent. Not like you, who one afternoon, here in Congress, vote against putting a tax on electricity, and the next day you say you are in favour because the European Union says so. You are neither predictable nor coherent, and you are always dedicated to doing just one job, which is: if the socialist government says it's daytime, you systematically pass what happens, you say it's nighttime. That's the problem. Because, for example, when you are talking here about face-to-face play, and you are presenting an amendment to ensure that there is a homogeneous approach, I ask you: does your representatives from Murcia, Andalusia and the Madrid Community say the same thing in the Game Policy Council? They don't say anything. When this controversy has grown in the autonomous communities, when there was a change of government in 2015 and the left came to rule, with these majorities and with a president of the socialist government, reforms of the law of the game have been made: Valencia is a very clear example. You, in the Community of Madrid and in Murcia, have been for many years and still do not impose any measures to stop the proliferation of gambling houses. Where? Precisely in the middle-class and working-class neighborhoods of these cities. I passed through Madrid, through my Madrid, through there, through the Avenue de la Albufera, through Marcelo Usera, where, every 300 meters, there is a betting house. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u55	That's what you haven't put any remedy to. Come here and say that and be consistent where you rule. I'm done, Madam President. I think it is an undeniable fact that social concern has diminished, I think it is an undeniable fact that we have worked this law with most parliamentary groups and with entities working with the world of playwrights and that everyone supports the reform of this law. I believe that some things that are exclusive to the Autonomous Communities are still pending, that some have done well - and here some of them have been cited - and others continue to do so badly. I think it's a good law; it's a coalition government commitment. More will have to be done; it is a social problem, but we are taking action, we are acting against seven years, seven years, in which the PP produced only the law of the jungle in the field of play. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vicente. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 38/2015 OF 29 SEPTEMBER OF THE RAILWAY SECTOR. [[File number 121/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u57	The next item is the opinion on the draft law amending Law 38/2015 of 29 September 2015 on the railway sector. I would remind you that this debate will be concluded by announcing the outcome of the vote on the proposals for the protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland, which took place in Brussels on 5 July 2022, and of the amendments to the Commission's opinions. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u58	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to on. We meet again to re-examine the amendment of the Railway Sector Act, Law 38/2015, the initial purpose of which is, at least apparently, to adapt its rules to the existing text of the European Union and, in particular, to Directive 2012/34 of the European Union, of the Parliament and of the Council establishing a single railway area. This initiative is the result, in turn, of the failure to properly implement this transposition. It was not done, and therefore, because it did not satisfy the Community institutions, as early as 2018, the European Commission sent a request to the Government of Spain, a request that was subsequently reiterated in order to maintain the same reparations, this time by reasoned opinion of 10 October 2019. However, and beyond the reasoning of that opinion of the European Commission on the incorrect transposition of the directive, which was mainly concerned with the system of railway charges, and in addition to the purpose of that opinion, or of correcting the object of that opinion, what the law does also is to have a substantial impact on the criteria for the division of competition in this matter; a matter - the railway sector - in which, moreover, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is competent, since it has, through two sources, exclusive competence: on the one hand, on railways running through lines within the territorial scope of the Autonomous Community of Basquedi - Article 10.32 of the Statute of Autonomy - and, on the other hand, the implementation of the legislation of the State on the management of the transport of passengers and goods having their origin and destination within the territory of the Autonomous Community, which is a consequence of Article 12.9 of the Statute of Autonomy. And that, even in the case that they were discussing State-owned infrastructure, since article 149.1.21.a of the Constitution so attributed, without prejudice to the fact that its direct execution would be able to be reserved by the State. We therefore understand that neither the text in force nor the text which is now being presented for validation is respectful of the autonomous powers in railway matters. It is true that substantial progress has been made in this area in the course of the debate, both in the management of the public service or in the general interest and in other matters related to the quantification of the possibility of insertion of certain sections within those networks of general interest, but it has not been done in the competition field. This restriction of the competence already established in the previous Railway Sector Act has been re-emphasized, and it was also re-emphasized, in contrast to what was stated in the Constitutional Court's judgment 245/2012, the criterion of which has been omitted in this debate and in this law. That judgment pointed out that there were two criteria for the management of competences in the railway sector, one of which was the territorial one and the other of the general interest. Well, neither of them have stood up. It has focused on an absolutely distorted view of the general interest as regards what was already envisaged or envisaged in some way in the European directive, but not in the territorial sphere, in the light of the ruling of the Constitutional Court which I have already pointed out. In this respect, it should be noted that the Community Directive maintains that the territorial criterion must take into account the rule enabling the competent local authorities to influence this matter, to declare a railway line as a public service obligation and also to define its content. This is the requirement, in order to guarantee public passenger transport services of general interest, that an operator, if it considered exclusively its own commercial interest, would not assume to the same extent or under the same conditions without remuneration. In other words, it should be the local and regional authorities close to the user citizenship of public transport services that can define public service obligations such as, for example, the frequency of services, the quality of service or the provision of services, in particular at smaller intermediate stations that would not otherwise be of interest, or the movement of trains at first or last hours of the day, which are not of commercial interest either. That is why our amendments have been aimed at correcting these issues, focusing on others concerning the conception of the general interest or allowing the actions of the authorities closest to the problem. It is true that in some cases we have been able to do so and have influenced and corrected the text which in principle contained the law, but not in others, and that is why we have kept five amendments which were aimed at contemplating the autonomous languages in the publication on the declaration of the network - we do not understand how the Socialist Party has been able to deny this in the processing - and to allow the participation of the autonomous trade union representation where it was most representative, in the consultations for the determination of the conditions of the workers in the sector. But above all we have maintained Amendments Nos 49, 50 and 51, aimed at allowing the delegation of powers for the management of infrastructures where their works have been carried out by those authorities by means of a management order and in relation to the operation of lines running entirely through that territory; this is the case of the Basque Y - the day that ends, of course -. It should therefore be noted that we have been missed by the non-acceptance of these amendments, but, yes, what has not been missed - and we regret it - has been listening to the attitude of a right more and more rarity, more reactionary and more intolerant, which also boasted of having sought that result, and not precisely because they understood that it was better or worse for the citizen, but on the basis of paralyzing nationalist dreams. It is curious this argument of nationalistic dreams, which is the excuse that has traditionally served to prevent the development of the status of autonomy or to influence the existing legislation in the block of constitutionality - Constitution and status of autonomy - since this reveals in some way that compliance or non-compliance with the law, where possible, only allow it when it coincides with their political interests...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u59	Mr. Barandiaran, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u60	I'm on my way. ... and not, as is the case, when it comes to respecting the existing jurisdictional division in any matter within the sphere of this State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. As I have held personally on behalf of my group, Citizens, in the Commission, we believe that the work carried out by the various parliamentary groups must be recognised, and it is fair to thank above all the tone of the debates, although it is true that this is a reform, in this case of Law 38/2015, of the Railway Sector, which does not have a great ideological burden, but is fundamentally technical. But still, being a more technical than a political rule, there are a couple of issues that I think are interesting to review, because they give the debate precisely a political touch. First of all, and perhaps to the misfortune of the United Nations, we can - and we will have to recognize Mr. Jaume Asens when he presumes deliberately in this rostrum - because market liberalization is for them little less than an anathema, and this law is to assume that it has to cause them something scozorous. I am saying this because the reform of the railway sector that we are debating today and which we are voting on - and very presumably approving with the vote of the Union Podemos - is precisely about the consolidation and better adaptation of Law 38/2015 to the process of liberalisation and to the very law of the European Union. In this sense, this law has allowed the opening of the rail market in accordance with European directives. Obviously, for liberals, any measure that will promote competition and expand the market, in this case in the railway sector, is good news, because it is good news for the user by improving the conditions under which the possibility of moving by train throughout Spain is accessed. And, secondly, because this law demonstrates precisely something that we discussed this very week in reference to the so-called taxes on banking and energy that in such a crude way are intended to mask by the government Saying, through the groups that support it, that they are not taxes, but property benefits of a non-taxary public nature. It would be advisable, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and the United Nations, that you read the preamble to this law carefully to see how it is configured and how it explains in it what a non-tax public property benefit is, in reference precisely to the fees or economic compensation paid by the companies that use, by contract, public infrastructure, railway lines and installations, to their manager, in this case Adif. When you read that text, you would know that these benefits are precisely because it is a matter of paying for the user of the network, or receiving a public service, or using a public work, when it is done through indirect management - that is, a concessionaire - or through management, but through a private personification, which is the case with Adif. That is precisely a non-taxary public property benefit and not what you intend to impose with that name, changing the denomination, but which does not really respond to that legal nature, since simply what you want to apply, and they said before yesterday, are taxes, you see it as you see it, and - remember it - because that is what the competent courts will tell you. In law, things are what they are and not what you want them to be, and this is shown sooner than later. In fact, it is one of the advantages of being truly liberal: that there is no arbitrariness in law and law as much government as you are, because in the end the judges put them in their place. It is precisely in this sense, in that figure of the non-tax public property benefits under which the fees to be paid by private companies that can provide rail transport services with their own trains through the Adif track network are placed, that is where we still keep in Citizens four amendments alive in this procedure, for which he requested the majority support of this House. In particular, we are keeping alive our amendments 97, 98, 99 and 106. Our amendment 97 aims precisely to improve Adif's system of fixing these fees in a fully liberalised market and in competition between its players. We therefore believe that it would be more appropriate for these fees to be approved in accordance with the guidelines previously adopted by the CNMC, since the current text still leaves it to Adif's unilateral will to fix them without specifying criteria or conditions or limits for them and their additions or bonuses, which can create insecurity and affect the transparency of that process of fixing these fees and thus the competition itself. In the same vein, Amendment 98 concerns a better fixing of the single cost model for the determination by the railway manager of the unit amount of the full share to be paid in railway charges. With our amendment we intend to be more effective and that this single cost model should be developed in accordance with the previous guidelines of that CNMC - as we have said - rather than the system envisaged for the infrastructure manager to develop it, and only then will it be submitted to the report of the CNMC itself. We believe that the control role of this institution at this point is crucial and must be strengthened. Amendment 99 is precisely so that the additions or surcharges that can be established to the full share of the railway fee in that single cost model can, where appropriate, be spread across the different segments of the rail market, depending on the elasticity of those segments. In other words - and it cannot be discussed that this is not a matter of adding a much more progressive measure to the text contained in the draft law - it is a matter of applying the method of distributing possible surcharges and/or bonuses in the fees that the law provides, taking into account which users, precisely because of their economic capacity, are less affected or more benefited. Finally, Amendment 106 refers, in line with what has already been said, to the preponderant role we have played for the CNMC in the process of determining railway charges and, therefore, that its reports should be binding. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the legal reform of the railway sector is good, but it could have been better, and that is precisely what we are talking about: improving transparency and security in the fixing of railway charges by Adif. In our case, and for that, we believe that it is good to enhance the role of the NCMC in this process, in ensuring better and greater market competition, which is, because the explanatory statement of the law that we are discussing today says so, the fundamental and essential of this reform. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u63	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u64	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG introduced different amendments to improve the text of this law under the basic premise of defending the railway public service and also the competences in this area by the autonomous communities. Some have already been incorporated into the text through compromises, and others we are keeping for the vote now. For example, we advocate that rail services should be maintained, managed and extended to criteria not only for economic performance, but primarily for public service, ensuring adequate coverage throughout the territory. Therefore, the rail network of general interest should also be improved and expanded. In the case of Galicia, the connection is fundamental, the Atlantic axis with Portugal on the Santiago-Lugo line, which does not yet exist, in addition to improving railway infrastructure and services throughout the country. We propose - it seems to us common sense - that the transfer of internal networks and services to the autonomous communities, especially the services of proximity, should be encouraged. Once again, I would like to remind you that in Galicia these proximity services do not exist, so the Spanish Government does not comply with its commitments, but does not allow others to do so either. It is true that the Xunta of the PP of Feijóo never requested or had an interest in doing so, despite being an essential service for citizenship and for sustainable mobility, but also be sure that soon in Galicia there will be a real Galician government presided over by the BNG, which will turn railway mobility into the central objective of its social policies. I would also like to refer to the new additional first provision, setting up an independent administrative authority for the technical investigation of transport accidents, in which the Government undertakes, within six months, to refer to the Courts a draft law establishing a single intermodal body to assume the powers of technical investigation of railway, maritime and civil aviation accidents. This body must enjoy independence and autonomy, which has been incorporated through an amendment by the BNG which advocated the implementation of a railway safety plan. Because - it must be remembered - the Spanish State has to comply with the Community rules, especially the Framework Directive on Railway Safety of 2004, in order to allocate investigations and reports on railway accidents to an independent body, disconnecting from the CIF, as recommended by the European Railway Agency's report of 7 July 2016, in relation to the accident of the Alvia de Santiago de Compostela. This case, the accident of Alvia, highlighted the inadequacy of the CIAF, of the Commission of Inquiry into Railway Accidents, directly under the Ministry of Development, for a truly true and independent investigation. Hence, from here, once again, the support and solidarity of the BNG to the victims and relatives of Alvia who continue to demand truth, justice and reparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u66	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and the members of the Commission for the good working environment that has existed in the paper. I would also like to thank the lawyer and the technical services for the possibility of developing a work that bears fruit of this bill that we hope will be implemented in a law reforming Law 38/2015, of the Railway Sector. The Democratic Party had tabled different amendments. One was incorporated into the paper, four were also traded in the paper and, finally, there was one, in which perhaps we also had a special interest, which was traded in the Commission. It makes it easier for certain cases, which I will explain below, to establish a mechanism for reviewing the prices of contracts for the supply of rolling stock which is affected by public service obligations. As you know, the evolution of the prices of certain raw materials and, above all, of certain materials has distorted the evolution or the fulfilment of some of these contracts; contracts which, as you also know, have a very important maturity period: from the submission of the offer to the end of delivery of the railway material pass several years. This is a review that will favor not only Renfe and its suppliers, but also other public companies, such as Generalitat Railways, or any other in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, Madrid or any other city. It will help to make possible some contracts that were in danger of being silent and that could not be supplied in time and form the necessary rolling stock that is required to somehow recover the lost time due to the lack of investment in this area. It is true, and it must be acknowledged, that over the last few months - perhaps over the last year and a half - the Government and Renfe have made a special effort to increase these types of contracts. It would be of no use if this extraordinary price review had not been given, which I hope today will be approved. However, we would have liked some further improvement and, as we did in the Commission, our group will support some of the lively amendments that are still in the debate. Beyond the fate of these living amendments, we will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u68	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Today we are discussing the draft law amending the Railway Sector Act, which aims to incorporate European Directive 2012/34 into national law. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, how do you expect us to support this law with our vote if Catalonia is systematically failing to comply with one of its most basic principles, such as maintaining the railway infrastructure in good condition? We have repeated it many times, there are lines in very but very poor condition, such as the R3, from L'Hospitalet de Llobregat to Puigcerdà; the R4, from Sant Vicenç de Calders to Manresa; the R12, from Lleida to L'Hospitalet de Llobregat; the lines R13 and R14, from Lleida to Barcelona. What is the use of the measures that are so presumptuous about the freeness of proximity if users later lose more than a hundred minutes at a train station? If the trains don't work, the gratuitousness of proximity is useless. [[Applauds]] On the contrary, deficiencies and continuing delays cause frustration to citizens and discourage the use of public transport. For example, last Friday's incidence, when a breakdown in Adif's telecommunications system affected the movement of trains in Catalonia for hours, leaving thousands of people without a means of transport; people going to work, going to medical tests or going to a funeral. Have you calculated the moral and economic damage that meant leaving all of Catalonia without trains of proximity and half distance? The only response offered from Renfe's service was to suggest to users that they opt for an alternative means of transport to the train, a possibility that in most cases is non-existent. And, in any case, who pays for the alternative? Who pays the economic damage to the people and businesses affected? Do you imagine the degree of frustration they cause users on these lines? Do you imagine the degree of discredit towards the functioning of proximity? Its policy does not encourage the use of the sustainable train but rather encourages the use of the polluting car. Because the problem is not what happened last Friday, the problem is that these incidences are chronic and structural, and day by day the rift is increasing; a rift totally founded in view of the situation to which we are subjected: delays, cancellations and various incidences, most of them resulting from the poor condition of the facilities and the lack of execution of the investments. Because budget implementation depends on political will, yes, but it also depends on how many technicians you have dedicated to this task. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that they meet the technical requirements for solving this structural deficit on the Catalan railways? The train, the services of proximity, are not only a budget, they are an environmental bet, an economic and social bet, because it is a basic necessity of the popular classes and more in the unpopulated areas. That is, it is not just not a territorial or infrastructure issue, but it is also a social issue affecting the most needy people and territories. They have demonstrated their incompetence to execute the budgeted in Catalonia. We are clear from the Republican Group: the only possible solution if we want a good rail service is that from the territory we manage our own infrastructure, and therefore we present Amendment 77 to them. Let us take care of it, accept our amendment and transfer powers and resources. Because, ladies and gentlemen, then you wonder why we are independentists. Then travel by train through the Catalan countries and they will have the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Granollers. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u70	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to express my solidarity with the taxi sector, which is currently taking place in Seville, and with the Madrid taxi sector and the Madrid municipalities, which have seen their municipal autonomy violated after Mrs Ayuso's last Uber law. [[Applauds]] The Dutch parties again put our sovereignty at the service of the big transnationals, who do not tax in our country and who aim to violate our legality; as they say, fucking illegal companies. We will continue to defend public services and regulated rates so that people know what they charge, when they charge it and why they charge it, and do not abuse again and again, as they are doing, the public space, trying to establish private monopolies. We are before the Railway Sector Act, a law which aims to transpose a directive. But when we talk about Europe, we have too much habit of thinking that it's something else and people. We know the institutional architecture of the European Union; we know that the policy of the European Union has been the liberalisation of rail transport, and we believe that within the European Union, as with other monopolistic sectors, we must open once and for all the debate on the failure of liberalisation processes. Or did it help to liberalise rail transport? I will tell you what it has been for: to break the cooperation agreements between Renfe and the French company, because we are now competing, because the only companies that can compete in this sector are public. Do you know what shame is? The shame is that competition is basically being understood to lower wages in the railway sector. We and we believe that this is not the way; we believe that it is necessary to guarantee quality employment in the rail sector in order to ensure good public service for all citizens. [[Applauds]] In that connection, we are surprised that the amendment we have tabled, which is also coming to plenary, which says that a collective agreement on the railway sector must be promoted, has not been very well received by the rest of the parliamentary groups. Does it make sense for companies with wages to enter 30% below Renfe's salary? Does it really make sense? Do we think that, as a transport policy, it is a good policy, that as an economic policy, it is a good policy, wage devaluation, when it is precisely what we need that people have the resources to be able to buy in the corner store and move the whole economy? Wage devaluation is a failure and we have to be able to put it on the table and fight for the recognition and guarantee of the labor rights of the whole sector. At the same time, we also don't understand why the CNMC has to be the one to say what rates are charged for an infrastructure that we have paid all Spaniards, it doesn't make sense. We believe that, a posteriori, they may have to regulate, because we have to continue to maintain supposedly independent bodies which, incidentally, end up defending the interests of large companies, which are the ones who re-employ them when they end up in that committee. We believe that the principle of defending the general interest must be maintained and this is guaranteed by those who have been elected by the general public through democracy. Nothing, things in which we are committed, to defending democracy also in the field of public services and in the field of the economy. Things we have. We have achieved things in this process, we have managed not to repeat situations like the one that occurred in Cuenca, where a conventional network has been closed after an abandonment that has lasted forty years. No, we have proposed, we have put on the table and we have reached an agreement to ensure that all the lines are maintained and, at the same time, the historical debt and the deficit with the conventional train are recognised. The historic gamble of the last forty years by the AVE has had an immediate consequence: the savage deterioration of the conventional train and the possibility of the development of the transport of goods through those same infrastructures. We and we believe that the reinforcement of the conventional train is key to vertebrate the territory, to meet the challenges of the future, and there is 80% use of the conventional train population, compared to 20% of AVE. It is true that in the budgets, since there has been a political change in this country, there is already more investment in conventional than in AVE, but we are not in an 80-20, which is the use we currently have. We need to strengthen the conventional train as a key element of territorial vertebration and as a key element in order to be able to face climate challenges, and I think that we must all be pushing and analysing what has happened to the model, because we do not have a problem with one party or another party; we have a problem with the model of the railway sector in our country. What did the liberalisation of rail freight transport entail? We had the objective and liberalisation was going to be so fantastic that we were going to increase from 9 to 20 % of freight transport by rail. Result: we have increased from 9 % to 4 %. Liberalizations are a failure, it is necessary to address staffing internalization processes in public enterprises, it is necessary to replace all those jobs that were destroyed by the customs of the Montoro law and the replacement rates that were imposed during the period of the austereicide and we have to be able to push an essential public service as a key element to guarantee the right to mobility of the whole citizenry. We and we do not believe that the logics of liberalization will be useful, but we do believe that this law has introduced some important regulations. In that regard, we will support the text, but we maintain our amendments. We believe that it is very important to ensure that there is a collective agreement in the railway sector and that companies are not allowed to enter into social dumping in our country, that workers are guaranteed decent conditions, because we believe that decent working conditions and having sufficient employees in these public services are the best guarantee of an adequate, dignified and sustainable right to mobility for the whole population. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Lorite Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the liberalisation process of rail transport is leading to increased competitiveness and consolidation of the rail market. Since the enactment of the Railway Sector Act in 2015, and especially since December 2020, when liberalisation takes place, there has been a unique opportunity to increase supply and demand for these services. The successive opening up of competition, as well as the emergence of new operators, has achieved strategic objectives: democratising access to this mode of transport, lowering the price of railway tickets, increasing the frequency number, stimulating demand, but above all, starting a considerable increase in the modal share of railways. In addition, the historical investment in railway infrastructure of a network that had been underutilized is profitable. In a very important way, the liberalisation of the rail sector also brings environmental benefits: the decarbonisation of mobility and the achievement of climate neutrality. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if the rail sector is the most sustainable means of transport, this modal increase from liberalisation is also a way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Moreover, in countries in our European environment, which have already made more progress in the liberalisation situation, such as Italy, Austria or the Czech Republic, we see that the objectives set by this legal text are achievable and very beneficial for mobility and its future. The parliamentary process of this legislative project has placed the investiture partners in the undisguised defense of their claims: We can, on the side of the blockade to the railway liberalisation process, and the nationalist and independent groups, indeed, Mr Barandiaran, in the materialization of their competing dreams in relation to the railway system. But, ladies and gentlemen, how have we managed to block both aspirations? With the dialogue and the search for agreement and consensus, with a goal, which is to serve the Spaniards, improve their access to the right to mobility and guarantee a quality rail service. [[Applauds]] It has been, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the strength of dialogue that has fostered consensus with the main opposition party, and this has shown that such consensus is not only possible, but also that it is necessary to avoid the introduction into our legal system of clearly harmful rules, dictated by a radical, anti-liberal and independenceist minority. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is better off when you stop insulting the People's Party and President Feijóo, dialogue with us and succeed in building together. Let's follow that dynamic. I therefore call upon you with hope and with the help of moderation, dialogue and centrality, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, for the general interest of the society to which we represent and to which we must serve from this Parliament. I understand that you have a bad day because, after yesterday's historic ruling by the Supreme Court, which condemns the biggest corruption case in the history of Spain led by the Socialist Party, logically, you do not have a good day, because forty years of socialist regime in Andalusia end with that conviction. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, allow me one piece of advice: ask people for forgiveness and stop asking for pardons. They ask forgiveness, which is what they should do, and not be all day asking for forgiveness for the guilty. [[Applauds]] As the CNMC, the National Competition Market Commission, pointed out, the change in the fee system was necessary to ensure consistency between national and Community law, and in particular the Recast Directive. In short, the legislator should ensure the independence of the administrators, continue to open the market to competition and clarify the regulatory framework for the interaction of the parties, the Railway Infrastructure Manager, the regulator and operators. As the Rules themselves state, it is a question of giving a new impetus to the liberalisation process under the principle of non-discrimination and of applying what is laid down in Community law, in the directive I have just mentioned. In addition to protecting railway infrastructure, delineating the planning of the railway network of general interest and improving aspects relating to urban planning, the present legislative text speaks of the consecration of the principle of independence in management by the Railway Infrastructure Manager, indicating that he will be responsible for management, administration and internal control. To date - and it has already been said in this rostrum - the fees were established through the Law on General Budgets of the State because they had a tax character. From the application of this rule, they will become non-taxary and controlled public property benefits with a strengthened role of the CNMC regulatory body in order to ensure that the imposition of such fees complies with the current rules and is not discriminatory. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end by telling you that we are continuing along this path of dialogue, consensus, agreement and, of course, there you will continue to find us for the good of Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Lorite. Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u74	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft we are discussing amends Law 38/2015 of the Railway Sector to transpose the European directive of the so-called fourth railway package, which acts on the governance of railway lines subject to competition in the provision of service by different operators. In this particular aspect, we are concerned that competition is limited exclusively to those mature high-speed runners with expectations of profitability and high profits. We are not opposed in principle to competition in the railway sectors, but if competition is introduced in this sector, we want it to be sought and to benefit the quality and the improvement of the price of services and not lower wages or the concentration of mobility in a few corridors. But something does not work in the planning of the railway sector in Spain. We believe that there is a lack of criteria, concepts and guidelines for the railway sector so that proper planning of the conventional network will make this structure an instrument of territorial vertebration. The PITVI, the Ministry of Transport, ADIF and Renfe concentrate their infrastructure and service planning on high-speed lines and on the proximity lines of large cities. Both objectives are necessary, but they are not enough for the railway, as we want, to vertebrate the territory. There is no criterion in the Law of the Railway Sector or in this reform on what to do to modernise the conventional lines, what to do to get a rail service that really spills the territory in Spain, beyond arriving quickly from the big Mediterranean cities to Madrid or vice versa. Nor is there a clear decision to make railways a competitive means of transporting goods. In our opinion, there is a lack of rigidity and comfort in planning; ideas, criteria and resources are lacking to boost this transport system as a real instrument of territorial vertebration. On the contrary, right now the conventional network is a vestige of an earlier railway. There is no political will or railway model or sufficient resources to make it a modern rail network. Many of these lines close when the administrations manage to silence the demands of the citizens without further questions, how they are trying to close the Cuenca line and how it happened in all those that have disappeared. In other cases, when the citizen pressure is strong, insufficient maintenance works are barely involved, as is the case with the Zaragoza-Teruel-Sagunto line. There are indeed lines in the maps for political advertising that are sometimes accompanied by advertisements, but nothing more. The railway is much more than the high-speed lines that unite the big capitals. To recover the population the train must vertebrate the territory, it must ensure the communication of small towns and county heads and have railway corridors that give effective service to all the provinces. It is not a receipt, for example, that a journey of one hundred and eighty kilometers between Teruel and Zaragoza exceeds two hours and twenty minutes, has low frequencies and unpractical schedules. It is also not possible what happens with the Teruel-Valencia route, one hundred and sixteen kilometers, more than two and a half hours, with fewer frequencies and even worse times, as it is also not possible to receive that there is no passenger service in the cantabrian-Mediterranean corridor or that from Teruel it is not possible to come to Madrid. In this regard, Renfe and the ministry have to put into operation the Talgo 730 hybrid, Teruel-Zaragoza-Madrid, which we have previously claimed. In Aragon, with more than 800 kilometres of conventional railway, there are more examples of this deterioration that must be reversed. Thus, for example, the Zaragoza-Monzón-Lérida train is another example of how to ruin a useful public service by suppressing stops and frequencies. The same is true of the Zaragoza-Caspe line, the Zaragoza-Calatayud line along the Iberian wide track and the Zaragoza-Huesca line, with huge demand for travellers who, however, move to the road. Why not introduce competition with suitable rolling stock, frequencies and timetables on these mid-distance lines that should vertebrate the territory? Similarly, it is necessary to give service so that from Zaragoza you can reach at least Alagón, La Cartuja bajo, María de Huerva and Villanueva de Gállego, integrating this line into the Zaragoza-Huesca system. We need Aragon not to miss his train. The platforms in defense of the railway are concentrated every Sunday - and more than a hundred - by many villages of Aragon demanding a worthy transport that they do not have now. They have our support and solidarity and I demand from here that they be heard by those who have the capacity to reverse this abandonment. Even in the very high-speed lines built in recent decades there have been no criteria for their integration with existing infrastructures. Was that integration possible? Of course, look at the European rail models and they will find out. It is true that, in this context, Teruel Existe agreed with the Socialist Party on clear commitments to make the Cantabrian-Mediterranean corridor a high-performance line for passengers and goods. We hope that the studies will arrive in time, but we need more steady progress in this planning, as we had occasion to remember in the Committee on Transport in connection with the fire that affected the Bejis railway in Castellón. We therefore hope that the next law on sustainable mobility will identify the modernization of conventional railways as a priority objective, and that criteria will be set for railways to be a nuclear system in vertebration that also includes areas at risk of depopulation. As long as that happens, other governance measures associated with the liberalization that drives this reform of the law could be implemented. For example, in the same way as new operators will have to respect, as recalled by the National Commission on Markets and Competition, discounts on large family tickets or discounts on personnel of the Armed Forces or those other that are determined by social circumstances, the authorisation of an operator to provide service on a high-cost rail corridor could be linked to the obligation to put services on a conventional rail corridor to vertebrate cities and county headsets in the provinces where it is less profitable. In paragraphs 2 and 3 of the draft law under discussion on the rail network, the amendments have managed to include an explicit reference to conventional rail for improvement in emptied Spain. But it is necessary that this function of territorial vertebration be recognized as a proper value of the railway network of general interest, that it is not merely a theoretical objective and limited to this draft law, but that it is transferred to all legislation and planning documents and that its implementation is accompanied by modern rail transport models and necessary budgets. Finally, in order to clarify the railway planning and to verify the importance of the mesh in the network in relation to the current radial model, it would be desirable that both the ministerial order that collects the catalogue of railway network of general interest, document is very important, as the PITVI use the name cantabrian-mediterranean corridor for the high capacity line that must connect Santander, Bilbao, Zaragoza, Teruel, Sagunto, Valencia, Alicante and Cartagena.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. The amendment to the Railway Sector Act that we are discussing today seeks to transpose a European directive that should have been completed by 2018 at the latest. We have been behind four years, they talk about competing competences between the State and the autonomous communities on rail transport, an interaction that should - according to the opinion - give better response to safety; but note that we could not have a clearer and closer example that demonstrates the disaster of the autonomy or decentralization of competences on railway infrastructures: the train that goes into the very hell itself in the Bejis fire, because it was precisely a delay in the transmission of alerts between administrations that caused that train to enter the very same flames, resulting in half of the injured passengers. So, let me question that supposed better answer to security as a pretext for assigning competences. [[Applauds]] Returning to the subject of transposition, I am going to tell you about your - already known to all - poor legislative work, and it is that the CNMC has already pointed out the inadequate transposition of the directive with the Railway Sector Act itself, because the rule laid down a sanctioning regime clearly insufficient. On 21 December, by Royal Decree Law 23/2018, transposition of directives to incorporate, precisely, incorrectly transposed aspects of the directive we are dealing with, the railway law was re-amended without changing the sanctioning regime. Finally, the CNMC informed the preliminary draft of the amendment of the Law on the Railway Sector in respect of fees, where the sanctioning regime is not changed, and the CNMC reiterated once again the inadequate transposition of the directive by failing to comply with the provisions of the European framework. Now, that amendment is in parliamentary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer the amount of legislation that you need to transpose a directive, but the most expensive government and with more advisors in history has transposed them all inadequately and late. But its catastrophic way of legislating doesn't end here, no, there's still more. By amending the Railway Sector Act with the specific purpose of transposing a directive for a specific purpose, liberalisation, they amend other rules, such as the provision of air traffic services or the State General Budgets Act for the year 2021, which have absolutely nothing to do with the purpose of the rule. There is a very interesting point that is included in the opinion, where it is said that for reasons of general interest investment in railways, maintenance, conservation, improvement of existing infrastructure and construction of new ones will be improved in order to ensure accessibility and territorial connectivity. For we are going to talk about this connectivity and territorial accessibility: 8 July, Renfe tries to silence the criticisms for the absence of AVE to Malaga by just one train more on Thursday and Friday; 10 July, a Madrid-Santander train leaves passengers stranded for four hours in Palencia; 18 July, passengers from a Ferrol train to Madrid are caught in the middle of the flames in Zamora; 22 July, Renfe continues to unrecover the pre-pandemic frequencies; 25 July, chaos in Seville and Alicante for several hours' delays in the AVE to Madrid; 29 July, the engineers reveal that the projects for the train are increasingly worse; 29 July, trains such as those for Malaga or Barcelona with huge queues for delays in their departures; 31 July, the same at María Zambrano station, the bus station in Madrid, in Malaga, 31 July, Renfe reprogramm its trains until September and notice of delays in Andalusia; 8 August, the bus station in Madrid, the bus station in Madrid, in Madrid, in Madrid, in Madrid, in Madrid, in Madrid, in Madrid, in Madrid, in Madrid, in Madrid in Madrid, in Madrid, in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in in in in in in in Madrid in in Madrid in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in in Madrid in in in in in Madrid in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in in in in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in Madrid in in in in in in in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in in Madrid in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in in in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in Madrid in And, of course, Extremadura's little train, the fiasco of high speed to Extremadura, delays and breakdowns in his opening week. They laugh at the extremists; 22 August, the ridiculous international, the German press mocks Sánchez and his train of shame in Extremadura; 22 August, an Alvia arrives eighty minutes late leaving Renfe without an intervener; 23 August, a breakdown in the Cordoba-Sevilla section, at the height of Ecija, causes train delays for several days; 29 August, the train enters the flames of the Bejis fire. Not to mention the deterioration of the service due to the lack of staff; casualties for long working hours of up to fifteen hours; drivers who deconvoke strike under promise that they will hire more and now Alicante loses the direct connection of the AVE with the station of Atocha. That, ladies and gentlemen, in July and August alone, these are the daily problems of the citizens who use the train, in addition to the Spain which you have abandoned and which, today, continue to abandon. And, as an example, see your concessional bus map where stops and frequencies are reduced. And let us hope that liberalisation will really serve to improve prices for citizens and not for Renfe to raise prices - as he has been doing - and that the rest will be the same. I would not like to end without mentioning an important point, which is the revision of prices in contracts, which is intended solely and exclusively for supplies of rolling stock and components, necessary for their manufacture and maintenance; but they forget the service contracts, which will automatically be excluded. But, moreover, it is limited to the rail public service, when it should be a global indexing for all the contracts of the Administration, in this case railways. In short, in this norm, which could have been, without a doubt, a norm that will affect in a very positive way the Spanish railway sector and in general the Spanish railway network - which has many needs, such as the conclusion of the Mediterranean, Atlantic, Cantabrian-Mediterranean corridors, the interconnection of the ports, the intermodality of some of our industrial polygons and also of the ports - neither treat nor establish the pillars to go forward. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, liberalisation is planned for the whole of Europe, not only for foreign companies to come and operate in Spain, but for Spanish companies like Renfe to get to work in Europe. We still hope that the Minister will answer our questions in order to report on Renfe's actions to the French authorities with a view to operating in France. So, ladies and gentlemen, get to work for real. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. De las Heras. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs García Chavarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u78	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by pointing out that, despite the enormous technical content of this law, many of the challenges facing our current society are reflected in this project that we are dealing with today. If something has proved these years of vertigo it is precisely the need to implement improvements in the vertebration of the territory; improvements that favor railway connections within our country and with the rest of the European Union, and that do so, in addition, combining the challenge of climate change and mobility. I believe that this opinion, which is the result of the agreement between the groups, indicates that in this House we all - or almost all of us - have indeed understood the importance of this issue. Let me begin by thanking my group for the work and the valuable contributions of all the other groups in the Commission, including the lawyers and the services of the House, and a special thanks to my colleague, Mr Ramos, who was the doer of the agreement that we endorse today. I believe that we have been able to reach agreements, even from very distant positions, and I think it is fair to value it. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has taken the glove with this bill to improve the adaptation of the law to liberalisation and Union law and to incorporate into our legislation the European Recast Directive, which gives rise to the single European railway area. Our country needed to modernise its legislation and this reform includes important changes, such as greater flexibility in the determination of railway charges, which are now considered non-taxable property benefits. This will undoubtedly enable an agile response to the needs that may arise in the sector, without having to wait for processing in the general budgets of the State. On the other hand, other concepts in line with European directives, such as railway infrastructure and rail services, are also being implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, rail can and must also play a decisive role in connections within Spain and with Europe as a means of public and sustainable transport. This government is very sensitive to the environment, to the public and is also very European. The historic moment that we are living with the invasion of Ukraine by Putin and the consequences of all this that we are suffering require the bet determined by a change in mobility that the Government has been pushing for a long time. Good evidence of this is all the measures put in place to address inflation. Specifically, and as far as rail mobility is concerned, the implementation of the free bonus in mid-distance and close proximity has already benefited more than one million people in just twelve days since its launch. [[Applauds]] As I say, this bill is an important piece because of the challenge posed by the vertebration of the territory, which is fundamental to facing the present moment, without leaving anyone behind for their postal code. That is why we need railway investments such as those already taking place to bring our country closer and interconnect with Europe, but also to make businesses more competitive and to make citizens more equal no matter where they live. They will allow me to give some concrete examples of my land, Galicia, and my province, A Coruña, a community and a province that, thanks to the impetus of this Government, will finally see the consolidation of key projects for our economic development, such as the connection of the port of Langosteira with the Atlantic axis. [[Applauds]] Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, if I tell you that only a few times 6.7 kilometres of train must have given rise to as much hope for a city as they do for the city of A Coruña. This connection will mean that rail freight traffic is balanced with sea and road transport; also for the city of Ferrol, which, with the entry into operation of the Caneliñas connection, assumes a huge leap in operation, turning it into a strategic piece for the Galician economy. Both are undoubtedly good examples of this government's commitment to Galicia's fundamental infrastructure, together with the AVE's connection with Madrid, which was inaugurated just eight months ago. Commitment, determined bet and loyalty to my land that will continue with the launch of the AVRIL trains in the near future. In addition, we will continue to work to improve also in the future connections such as Ferrol-A Coruña and Lugo-A Coruña. More investments and projects to improve Galicia's mobility and railway interconnection, because once again Galicia's progress, ladies and gentlemen, comes from the hands of a socialist government in the state. [[Applauds]] Take good note of this the Xunta of Galicia. I shall now conclude, Madam President, by reiterating once again my satisfaction and that of my group for the joint work that has been done. And I would ask, especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that also on other issues and issues, such as the next law on sustainable mobility, you contribute with a high eye and loyalty not to this government, ladies and gentlemen, but to the citizens, who must know that the work of Members of this House is always in their favour. If we have succeeded with this law, it is because we are able to reach understanding and consensus. Let's do this on all State issues. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 13/2011 OF 27 MAY ON THE RULING OF THE GAME. [[VOTING]] [[File number 121/000095]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, proceed to state the outcome of the votes that have already taken place. Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Bill amending Act 13/2011 of 27 May 2011 on the regulation of the game. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mrs Cañadell. Amendment 30. Votes cast, 348; yes, 163; no, 179; abstentions, 6. The amendment is therefore rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. Amendment 8. Votes cast, 348; yes, 28; no, 313; abstentions, 7. The amendment is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 42. Votes cast, 348; yes, 25; no, 312; abstentions, 11. It is therefore rejected. Amendment 43. Votes cast, 348; yes, 25; no, 312; abstentions, 11. It is therefore rejected. Amendment 44. Votes cast, 347; yes, 30; no, 307; abstentions, 10. Amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Amendment 41. Votes cast, 348; yes, 154; no, 192; abstentions, 2. It is therefore rejected. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 38/2015 OF 29 SEPTEMBER OF THE RAILWAY SECTOR. [[VOTING]] [[File number 121/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u81	Bill amending Act No. 38/2015 of 29 September 2015 on the railway sector. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group Votes cast, 347; yes, 35; no, 308; abstentions, 4. They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 99. Votes cast, 348; yes, 153; no, 195; no abstentions. It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Votes cast, 348; yes, 153; no, 195; no abstentions. They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 14. Votes cast, 348; yes, 28; no, 268; abstentions, 52. It is therefore rejected. Amendment 17. Votes cast, 348; yes, 121; no, 226; abstentions, 1. It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Votes cast, 348; yes, 29; no, 312; abstentions, 7. They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez. Amendment 5. Votes cast, 348; yes, 38; no, 300; abstentions, 10. It is therefore rejected. Amendment 13. Votes cast, 348; yes, 74; no, 249; abstentions, 25. It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez. Votes cast, 348; yes, 26; no, 309; abstentions, 13. They are therefore rejected. Amendment tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 77. Votes cast, 348; yes, 35; no, 310; abstentions, 3. It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Amendment 54. Votes cast, 348; yes, 88; no, 228; abstentions, 32. It is therefore rejected. Amendment 56. Votes cast, 348; yes, 109; no, 228; abstentions, 11. It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. Votes cast, 347; yes, 57; no, 230; abstentions, 60. They are therefore rejected. Amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Amendment 90. Votes cast, 348; yes, 145; no, 194; abstentions, 9. It is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u82	We continue with the agenda item on the full debate on the draft law on cooperation for sustainable development and global solidarity. I should like to inform you that the Republican Parliamentary Group has requested, as you all know, that this bill be adopted. For the presentation of the draft law, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, both the international development agenda and the way in which development cooperation has been carried out by the main players in the sector have undergone a tremendous transformation since the adoption of the only international cooperation law that Spain has had until now, in 1998. In 1998, neither the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development nor the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, both adopted in 2015, nor the Addis Ababa Agenda for Action, existed. In these almost twenty-five years the way of conceiving development cooperation has evolved and Spain cannot and should not be left behind with regard to our European partners and our friends and allies in the world. The reform of the regulatory framework of the Spanish system of cooperation is a demand of the actors in the sector. It is essential for our cooperation to be able to cope with the complexity of the world in which we live, radically different from that of 1998 when the law in force was enacted. [[The Lord]] The draft law on cooperation for sustainable development and global solidarity, which today a single parliamentary group brings to the debate of its entirety, is a necessary law that is born of participatory dialogue with the main actors in the sector and that will make Spain a reference country within the international community and will also place us as a reference among the new models of cooperation. The COVID-19 pandemic, its health, economic, social consequences, the Russian aggression against Ukraine, the global effects we are experiencing, including the severe food crisis or the climate emergency, are examples that in the globalized world in which we live, to ensure the well-being of our citizens, a country with influence and leadership in the international sphere, as is clearly Spain, must work together with the rest of the countries of the international community to meet these common challenges. Because, ladies and gentlemen, for the Spaniards to go well inside, we have to do things well outside, but it is also necessary that our neighbours, partners, friends in the world, also go well. Therefore, international cooperation is also an investment in the welfare of the world that results in the well-being of the Spaniards. Cooperation, and therefore this bill, is also a majority social demand of our citizens and has a very broad support from the Spanish. According to data from the latest Eurobarometer survey on development cooperation, published last June, 98% of Spaniards consider it important to cooperate with third countries to reduce poverty in the world, but it is also that, Eurobarometer after Eurobarometer, Spanish society presents itself as one of the most supportive of the European Union. For example, UNHCR has Spain as its main private donor. The continued support of the Spanish people for international cooperation demonstrates the solidarity and strong values of the Spanish people and our commitment to the fight against inequality and poverty to address the climate emergency, the gender gap, the defence of human rights and democracy, and without Spanish cooperation we could not be responding to the most pressing crises on the planet that, unfortunately, have accumulated in recent years. Very recently Spanish cooperation has played a key role in the fight against COVID-19, with the donation of vaccines to developing countries - more than 63 million doses to date - or with the launch of a new programme to support the health systems of our partners to support their vaccination campaigns and other priorities in the fight against the pandemic. Our cooperation has also taken on a leading role in the crisis in Afghanistan. Spain's action has not been limited to the evacuation of our Afghan collaborators, but since Spanish cooperation, in addition to the humanitarian aid to date -34.5 million euros - we continue to support the Afghan people and, in particular, their women and girls. This same August, nearly three hundred Afghan collaborators arrived on a Government charter plane. This raises the number of evacuees to 3900, and many of them are former collaborators of Spanish cooperation. In Ukraine we have placed the largest humanitarian aid package in emergencies for a single country in the history of cooperation in our country, which already reaches 37 million euros, distributed between Ukraine and neighbouring countries. Last March I had the opportunity to visit Moldova and Poland and first-hand know the situation of many people, mostly women and children, fleeing the war and finding support from humanitarian agencies. Spain has already welcomed more than 140,000 Ukrainian refugees, in another example of the solidarity of our society. Our responsibility to the Ukrainian people will continue throughout the war, which unfortunately we can predict will be long. Spanish cooperation is also very present in the search for solutions to the food crisis, especially worrying in areas as close to Spain as the Sahel, the Horn of Africa, and in some more distant, but very close in feelings, as is Central America. AECID has a portfolio of rural development and food security projects of over €300 million and we have increased our contribution to the food programme by 75% this year. We have made progress, we have made much progress, but much remains to be done. Although the number of people living in extreme poverty, with less than $1.90 a day, has gradually declined since 1998, the trend has been halted in 2020 due to the economic crisis, the social crisis and the health crisis caused by COVID-19, combined with the effects of conflict, the most pressing of Ukraine, and the effects of climate change. Thus, although this gradual decline has been resumed, according to World Bank data, between 75 and 95 million people in the world live in extreme poverty, with the data of 2022, compared to the projections prior to COVID, due to its consequences, the war in Ukraine and the increase in inflation. And the number of people forcibly displaced in the world has also increased to nearly 90 million by the end of 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to find a historic moment in which our values, and in particular the solidarity of our society and our interests, are more aligned. Today more than ever it is necessary to cooperate and to do so in an agile and adapted to the times we face. That is why this Government's commitment to international cooperation is unquestionable. We have already demonstrated this with the general state budgets of 2022, making the biggest budget increase in development aid in a decade, with almost 400 million euros, which re-places Spanish cooperation at levels that were not seen since 2011. When we arrived at the Government, official Spanish development aid accounted for 0.19 per cent of gross national income; by this year, it is projected to reach 0.28 per cent. Much remains to be done, no doubt. As Minister of Cooperation, I am first aware of this, but there is no doubt that the figures show that this Government is fully committed to investment in cooperation for sustainable development after what is a truly lost decade: in 2015, Spanish official development aid accounted for only 0.12% of gross national income, so far away from 0.7. And we reiterate this now with an ambitious reform of our system of cooperation, to improve its effectiveness, to update it in line with the progress of the past twenty-five years and to meet the major challenges facing Spain, Europe and the world. The great umbrella for such reform is the draft law on cooperation for sustainable development and global solidarity, which is now being debated by a single parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, this rule, which the Council of Ministers adopted on 31 May to start its parliamentary procedure in this House, is a law that will make Spain a reference country within the international community, which will place us as a benchmark among the new models of cooperation, and that is also a sign of a country's identity. It is the framework and at the same time the starting point for a thorough and ambitious review of the Spanish system of development cooperation, which will allow us to achieve greater efficiency and impact in our action. The updating of the regulatory framework is absolutely essential for our system of cooperation to cope with the complexity of the world in which we live, which is radically different from that of 1998 which lit up the previous law, almost twenty-five years ago. The new law on cooperation is a norm demanded by the main actors in the cooperation sector - I am aware that some of them are following us now in this debate - and is born of participatory dialogue with all of them. [[pointing to the guest gallery]] The contributions and comments of the NGO Coordinator and the report of the Sub-Commission of the Congress Cooperation Commission, established for the study of the updating of the normative framework and the system of international cooperation, have been taken into account throughout the process of law-making. And the recommendations of major international bodies, such as the OECD Development Assistance Committee, among others, have also been taken into account. From the procedure of public hearing, through which 53 contributions were received from various actors of civil society and the autonomous communities, a key player also in our cooperation, 133 proposals were collected and 97% of them were incorporated, i.e. 129 of the 133 proposals. The result of this participatory dialogue and of all the contributions received is this ambitious, comprehensive draft law, which defines a new avant-garde model of cooperation, based on policy coherence to ensure more coordinated and integrated action; which recognizes the differentiated role of NGOs as key actors in the system of cooperation; which attaches great importance to partnerships with civil society, highlighting precisely NGOs, but also the private sector, the academic world. The new standard is aligned with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, signed by the 193 States members of the United Nations, and its 17 sustainable development goals, as well as the Paris climate change agreements and other international instruments to which Spain has been a party for years. It recognizes justice and solidarity as cross-cutting principles and distinctive elements within external action committed to current and future global goals and sets as priorities the fight against poverty and inequality, the fight against climate change and other environmental challenges and the promotion of gender equality, among others. For the first time, it sets out a pressing demand for our society: the legal mandate to achieve 0.7% of the gross national income in official development assistance on the 2030 horizon, which is the deadline foreseen in the 2030 Agenda, and also responding to the strategies of all the agencies, to which we are a party: the European Union, of course, the OECD, and the UN. In addition, it agrees to provide adequate capacity and resources for humanitarian aid and crisis response, establishing that at least 10% of our aid is earmarked for this purpose. The law also proposes an improvement in the governance of the cooperation system. It thus establishes new bodies to ensure better representation and expanded participation of the various actors of the system, with a Higher Council for Development Cooperation, an Inter-Ministerial Coordination Commission or a new Sectoral Conference for Development Cooperation. It is also committed to the strengthening and in-depth reform of the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation as a cornerstone of our entire system. Similarly, this norm is strongly committed to decentralized cooperation between the autonomous communities and local authorities. Decentralised cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, is one of our signs of identity and of the great assets of our system. The relevant role of the autonomous communities and local authorities lies in their ability to generate alliances and in the expert knowledge of their respective territories. The very important work of these actors gives our cooperation a more plural, more decentralized character and, in the end, more open to the participation of the different territories and of our entire society. This law will be the first step in reforming our system of cooperation. To be truly effective, a new statute for AECID will be necessary, which will improve its capacities and its role as a forerunner of partnerships with other sectors. The law also creates the Sustainable Development Fund, the SDS - which will replace FONPRODE, because it is necessary to modernise and strengthen financial cooperation and other financing instruments for sustainable development - whose regulatory rules will allow us to work more agilely through new financial instruments and will bring us closer to other leading European partners in cooperation, such as Germany and France. In parallel, the ministry I lead is already working on the preparation of the 6th Master Plan for Spanish Cooperation, which will be the document that will guide us in the implementation of this agenda over the next four years, which are absolutely fundamental to modernizing Spanish cooperation and making a decisive contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. One of the great improvements that the law will bring is the recognition of the co-workers through the dignity of their professional careers. On 8 September, coinciding precisely with the celebration of the International Day of Cooperating Persons, we pay tribute with an event in the AECID to all Spanish co-operators who contribute day by day to ensuring that Spanish cooperation is commensurate with the challenges facing the world and that with their work, vocation and commitment they represent the best of Spain's values in the world. [[Applauds]] The 2689 Spanish and Spanish who are dedicated to international cooperation for development and humanitarian action reflect what Spain is, what our society is: a country that is solidarity, open to the world and committed to the response to the great challenges facing humanity. We owe it to them, to whom they allow projects to be possible and to which they improve the lives of people with names and surnames, a constant support for their work, recognizing first of all that they are highly qualified professionals, well trained and specialized. That is also what this bill does. This bill lays the foundation for a professional career for them and recognizes the duty of the General Administration of the State to care for them. In order to provide stability to the co-operator's career, the basic elements for a career in AECID that promotes mobility between headquarters and the field and the attraction of different profiles of cooperation officials and specialists are introduced and, in addition, special attention is paid to improving the situation of volunteering. All this progress will be made in a new status of cooperating persons, which will update the current status of 2006 and be adopted in the coming months. The new law aims to improve transparency and integrity in the management of cooperative resources through the introduction of a new impact and results assessment system that will strengthen the focus on sustainable development goals, improve accountability to citizens, competent bodies and also partner countries. We want a more agile and effective system, but at the same time more transparent and more accountable. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is also born for two clear purposes: to endure in time and to be a law of all. Cooperation can and should only be a State policy and, therefore, the Government has reached out from the outset to all parliamentary groups to ensure that the new law on cooperation is adopted with the greatest possible consensus, in line with the participatory process that we have followed with the actors in the cooperation sector: NGOs, the private sector and social actors. I would like to thank the vast majority of parliamentary groups for their excellent willingness to work together constructively and to improve this bill in its parliamentary process. I believe that virtually all the parliamentary groups in this House want this law to reflect the solidarity aspirations of all our citizens and of the citizens to whom these groups represent and that the work of Spanish officials and professionals dedicated to cooperation should be recognised. Many of them do so by endangering or even losing their lives by helping others in the most difficult contexts; such as María Hernández, a Spanish co-operator who died together with her colleagues from Doctors Without Borders in Tigray, Ethiopia, and who was awarded posthumously on September 8, International Day of Cooperating Persons, as well as other dead co-operators doing their work. For them, my gratitude and my encouragement to their families and their companions. [[Applauds]] He found a great consensus in this House on the need to pass this law that we owe to Spanish society and Spanish co-operators, and to undertake without delay the reform of the Spanish cooperation system; I sincerely believe that this is an excellent news for cooperation and for Spain. There is, however, a parliamentary group - one alone - that is counter-current with the feeling of the majority of citizens and of civil society, submitting an amendment to this law as a whole. It is a group - let us be aware - that questions and challenges a phrase in our Constitution, which speaks of effective cooperation among the peoples of the earth. But that parliamentary group is not opposed to this law of cooperation, it is opposed to cooperation itself. It opposes the basic principles that inspire cooperation, multilateralism and the objectives of the 2030 Agenda, which are no more than the fight against poverty and inequality, including gender gaps, and the search for a more sustainable and respectful model of development for our planet. This group and its amendment turn their backs on the co-operators who contribute to the fight against hunger, poverty and inequality, but also turn their backs on Spanish society which gives broad support to co-operation. Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Cooperation, I ask you to vote against this amendment as a whole and to continue the constructive dialogue that we have started with many of you and that we are already carrying out with a single objective: to enrich this text, to reach the greatest possible consensus and that we can adopt a law of cooperation for sustainable development and global cooperation that lasts for at least twenty-five years and that allows Spanish cooperation to continue to respond to the great challenges of humanity, channelling the solidarity of the Spaniards and changing life in the countries where it works. I am convinced that we are all united in the fight against poverty, in the fight against inequality and in the fight against hunger, and with those objectives in mind we will work to pass this law, a necessary law and demanded by the actors of Spanish cooperation and society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u84	Thank you very much. An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the VOX Group, Mr Sánchez del Real. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u85	Minister, good morning. You did not have to lie or disrespect the third political force in this House. You didn't have to. [[Applauds]] I am concerned about your lack of respect, but I am also concerned about the lack of respect for millions of Spaniards with whom we are speaking; you pride yourself on your representation without having it and lack respect for them. That you lie to me doesn't matter to me, our group doesn't care and many Spaniards don't, because we're going to report their lies systematically. Minister, I had another tone in my speech, but you are so cowardly that you have not even been able to mention the group that is presenting this amendment. Yes, the VOX Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment in its entirety because this bill in some of its aspects goes against the national sovereignty of Spain which you should represent, Minister, liar and faulty. [[Applauds]] I repeat, it completely changed the tone of my speech for a few minutes. What's going on? That the amendment to the entire PNV a few days ago would not have been subject to the same insults and falsehoods that you have launched? What's going on? That the PNV is not against cooperation because it has tabled a full amendment which it withdrew on Wednesday? Ah! Ah! That what you like is negotiation in the dark and small offices. What's going on? That parliamentarianism has died in Spain? That we can't come to Parliament to discuss the laws? Is that against something, Minister? Is that going against something? Don't take it so personally. [[Applauds]] You are not so great that we are against you or your Government. We're in favor of a lot of things. You have not even been able to listen to what we have said in the Commission. He didn't even dignify himself. His team - which is probably the one who does the dirty work to get these things out - has not been worthy to listen to us, because, among other things, in this law there are at least five ideas that VOX first raised. You're going to sleep tonight supporting a law that probably takes five ideas that we were the first to put forward. There she is! [[Applauds]] I had a fucking team because I doubted: will this man introduce her? It is that we have four foreign ministers in the government of Don Pedro Sánchez, four. You do not need to stand up and teach us, but you, too, as so many ministers of this Government, probably have the expiry date set. Four foreign ministers, four promises, four changes in the approach to Spanish cooperation. [[Raise your hand and show four fingers]] And you say we can't have our own opinion? If we do not know the opinion on the cooperation that the government of Pedro Sánchez will have next year! Four different ministers with four different approaches to cooperation! I wish you very much to remain in office; that is, within a government that lasts as little as possible, because we are not going to become too generous either. [[Applauds]] In addition, this comes for discussion and we are presenting a whole amendment, of course. And I repeat that you have not had any insults or disrespect towards the PNV, which represents many less Spaniards and with whom you will have negotiated something; you will tell us at some point in this debate what it has been, when and how to withdraw your amendment altogether, because something has been negotiated. Or do you think that the PNV withdraws something for free? It's just, come on! [[Laughter and applause]] I remind you that you are the Minister of Foreign Affairs of all Spaniards, even those you hate and those who lack respect. [[Denials by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, Albares Bueno]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. In his sustained and'sustainable' words in appearances he has said rather unpleasant things, because he says that we are not in solidarity, because he says that we do not give our time, because he says that we have not played our lives being in those operations or cooperative missions. It's just that you haven't even looked at our résumés, it's just that you haven't heard from where we've been or where we've played the skin of many of those in this parliamentary group by cooperating on the ground, not from the comfortable chair of the ministry. [[Applauds]] I'll go to that later because, since you insult, let's review another insult. Commission for International Development Cooperation. I ask, what's the point? Because you, Minister, have disrespected your colleagues in the groups that support you. This procedure will be carried out by another Commission, the Foreign Affairs Committee. What's going on? That you're right? We proposed that development cooperation should be integrated into foreign affairs and you give us reason, but you lack respect for your colleagues, your partners and your companions. By the way, there are very good people in that Commission outside the enormous ideological distances we have. There are very good people and very good people, and you don't stop disrespecting them and leaving them for no reason. They give me a little tenderness, because we may not agree on some details but we do agree on the bottom. I repeat, do not disrespect millions of Spaniards by saying that we do not want solidarity, that we do not want to remove hunger in the world, that we do not want equality for all and that we do not want freedom for all. Don't disrespect us, including your comrades. [[Applauds]] Going into detail, we tabled an amendment to the whole because, after twenty-five years, you fail. You do three things in this law. The first is that you - of course, without competence and we will see that without having a category for it - sell Spain's national sovereignty to international entities that do not even define correctly. There are concepts like global citizenship, global public goods... can you show me your global citizenship card? Can you show me the record of ownership of those global assets? Who do they belong to? [[Applauds]] Oh, no, they're in the clouds, as that cloud observer will always remind us. This is a serious matter and therefore we are presenting an amendment of the whole that could have been read. It's two pages, Minister, it wasn't much effort, it wasn't much effort. Instead of reading the speech he was given, I could have read it. I have tabled an amendment in its entirety! A bit of a game to which he makes an amendment to the whole. I'm sure PNV's read it to her. It speaks of global governance. It says: 'the construction of global democratic governance'. What's the matter with you? Is this Parliament going to disband the brave with this law and will it deprive us of the right to represent the Spaniards here, which is the only place where national sovereignty resides? [[Applauds]] It is that that is the point one of our amendment to the whole, that you are taking away national sovereignty from us. But it just doesn't belong to you. National sovereignty is not questionable, even if its partners discuss it. Sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, the only depositary, represented - by the way - in the General Courts. And, on top of that, you take in world mantras. I think you read little, because just read what the UN says about some of the elements that you say are fundamental. It says the United Nations - and I quote - 'The agenda - its agenda - implies a common and universal commitment; however, since each country faces specific challenges in its quest for sustainable development, States have full sovereignty over their wealth, resources and economic activity and each will set its own national goals'. You've invented a new kind of cateto: the global cateto. [[Laughter]] I'm gonna do a soccer simile. It's the cat that goes to the Champions or the World Cup, gets excited and, when you ask what has been brought, answers: Well, look, I've brought the referee's t-shirt, the corner's flag and I've been signed the rules. That instead of coming in with the national shirt perfectly represented. You, like so many others, are not representing Spain's national interests as the UN says. So what's going on? That this new global cathet passes through the meanders of the terms and norms that may have been designed well intentionally in a global or globalistic way but that do not necessarily apply to a country like Spain. Because you, Minister, just as you don't like a lot of Spaniards, you don't seem to like Spain either. [[Applauds]] Here they rely on a few; obviously, on those who do not like Spain or the Spanish, but also on some who, so long as they are accepted in the club of progress, are capable of anything. This PP, which is getting whiter and more moderate, continues to be delivered to the 2030 Agenda, happy to have entered that club at the time. [[Applauds]] This global and globalist catechism empties us of sovereignty to impose ideas and, instead of looking at what we can do with what we have and going out there to help free and equal citizens like the Spaniards, we are dedicated to importing agendas and objectives. This is very funny, because the second reason why we are going against this bill is not because of its technical aspects - if I had read our amendment as a whole I would know - but because you have invented globalist neocolonialism. You intend to impose a global agenda on citizens of other countries who have not yet fallen into the trap. This is pure colonialism. This bill literally says that Spain has to impose a number of ideas on other countries. Well, no, that's not what cooperation is about, and we all know that we've been on the ground. The word cooperation comes from an Indo-European language and the prefix co - means all together; cooperate and all the words that begin with co - go around. That does not mean that you take the ideas that others have dictated to you and will distribute them throughout the world with this new compulsory and necessary religion in which if you are not you cannot even submit an amendment to the whole, even if it is a right of parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] Not happy with that, that ideology becomes very fun. Then you have the right to reply and I have another turn, but I want to talk to you about this. [[Shows an image in which you read: 'Taller Vulvas dialogantes da viviencias trans']] Minister, vulva to vulva. Instead of talking about hunger, instead of talking about water and thirst, instead of talking about housing, we go to Tegucigalpa with the logo of Spanish cooperation, with the logo of the Kingdom of Spain and with the logo of the ministry to which the vulva speak among them. Minister, really? From vulva to vulva, do you think this helps a single human being? Not only that, but above the web where this is, you are so unconscious that you have even named the assistants. So we have told all Tegucigalpa - on top of the logo of the Kingdom of Spain - who are the poor trans who have come in confidence to our vulva workshop. Do you think that's serious? We will talk later on about other aspects and, fundamentally, we will talk about the relationship with anti-democratic regimes. But, above all, I wanted to say that Spain's national sovereignty does not belong to you, it belongs to all the Spaniards specifically represented here; a law cannot deliver it and less to become the new colonial distributors of this religion of gender, space and environment that you want to impose on us. We're still talking, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u86	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u87	I'm done. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u88	Thank you. Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u89	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. Indeed, today we come to discuss the full amendment to the draft law on cooperation for sustainable development and the overall solidarity presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have read both leaflets, but I have also heard the statements you have made on certain extremes. For example, you have said that we must close down the southern border and call the people who come from the African continent invaders; by the way, I come from the Canary Islands, geographically African. One cannot fail to wonder what development cooperation can consist of for people who think so. We don't know if they want us to climb the fences, have more and more armed agents, or have more and more concertinas. Finally, you do not recognize the historical impact of European colonialism on Africa and, therefore, the historical debt to them. You deny that there are still Western and multinational States that continue to extract the wealth of that continent at any cost, supporting authoritarian governments, contaminating natural spaces, exploiting its population and, in addition, denying access to essential resources. Do you, who support and encourage the policies of dispossession and death and criminalize the migratory movements we are witnessing today, really want to give any lessons on cooperation and development? Really? Is this bill better? Of course it's improveable, of course it's improveable. The demands of all sectors involved in international cooperation must be met, but not from the criticism you make, which is a totally Eurocentric and racist criticism. Believe me, really. You ask for attention and you have every right, but it is that from hatred nothing can be built in democracy; from hatred it is not built. Having said that, I would like to address the rest of the parliamentary groups explicitly. If we really want this cooperation bill to represent a new paradigm for cooperation, we should start with institutional recognition of the global damage caused yesterday and today by the European presence in the countries of the South. We have been part of the problem, ladies and gentlemen, and we have an obligation to be part of the solution. As recognized in the text presented to us by the Government, a law is needed that captures all the views of the various actors involved in cooperation, of course. It is therefore essential to have a legal text based on respect for one's own processes, which fosters horizontal relations and provides for action without harm, but, in addition, it is mandatory to direct this initiative towards the achievement of higher levels of social justice and to humanize the state framework governing migration, as also required by international conventions. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, if we really want to differentiate ourselves from the xenophobic discourse of the right, if migration is now being considered for the first time within this framework of development cooperation, if migrants should be included as key actors in the 2030 agenda, how is it possible that we are witnessing facts as indignant as those in the Melilla fence? How is it possible, as several organisations denounce this very week - on Monday this week, the human rights defender - that the Moroccan police continue to apply death policies to migrants, shooting those who try to set off in search of a better future, a better legitimate future? According to these same organizations, the result of these deplorable acts, a young sub-Saharan woman has died, as dozens of emigrants ravaged by Alawite law enforcement forces died a few months ago. Is this the policy that Minister Fernando Grande-Marlaska wants to exalt? In exchange for this, have you betrayed the Saharan people in an ignominious way, Mr. Albares? With us they do not count to cover with the veil of a new paradigm in cooperation the death policies that continue to massacre Africa. To avoid this, we are putting forward an amendment which I really hope you will consider, because the debate here - which is no less, ladies and gentlemen - is whether we are prepared to make this law not a wet paper, whether we are willing to stop looking elsewhere and do something about the great inequalities that plague our world. This Government of Progress must set an example and demand political coherence from its ministries. It is not enough to speak in this law of the fulfilment of the Sustainable Development Goals and, at the same time, that detention centres continue to exist in third countries financed by European money to displace and/or deport migrants to their countries of origin without taking into account the reasons or reasons for their displacement. Because, by interning in these spaces, ladies and gentlemen, they are placed in a condition of waiting for them to strip them of all their common law status, then becoming potentially deportable, rejectable, if not destructive subjects. In this they consist of the death policies that we denounce, in turning human beings into non-dispensable beings. That is intolerable and inhuman. If we want to talk about intersectionality, let it be applicable not only to this law, but to all the policies that each of the ministries implement. Without a policy of responsibility and equity in the countries of the South, it is impossible for cooperation to be in line with the Sustainable Development Goals and global solidarity, because in order for no one to stay behind we have to assume our historic debt. How canary, geographically African, with that look, with that perspective, I demand myself and I demand height of sight. Of course, it is possible to reverse the mistakes that have historically been made by both the right and the left of this country in terms of cooperation, but only if we raise this issue and take it as something structural. There is no more time for warm diapers to improve statistics. Behind each person, ladies and gentlemen, there is a story that is not possible to keep obviating. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u90	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u91	Thank you, President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentarianism that PNV does is to establish a position, to set out the arguments on which it has been based in order to establish a position, to dialogue, to negotiate and to reach agreements. Under no circumstances does the PNV share the parliamentarianism of VOX, which is what you have made: herring to burn yours, to raise the mood of yours, herring against the PNV. That is certainly not parliamentary and the PNV will never do so. Indeed, our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment in its entirety and we have reached an agreement. We have had a process of dialogue and negotiation, and we have had some results. Of course, we will explain why we have tabled the amendment in its entirety and what the agreement was. Of course, we, when the text of the law came to Congress, could not let it pass without raising our voice because we considered the text to be a major competitive setback and limited the possibilities for the development of decentralized cooperation. We approached the process thinking that there would be progress and when we saw the text we felt that what was a setback and important limitations in order to be able to develop that capacity for decentralized cooperation that the autonomous communities have in the exercise of their competences. Fortunately, as I said, following the introduction of this amendment we have had the capacity to reach agreements which, in our view, will improve the final text after the parliamentary procedure. We believe that the relational framework of the State with the autonomous communities in this area should continue to be based on the principle of collaboration set out in the Law on the Public Sector of jurisdictional respect of each administration. We are aware that this approach does not agree with the reality of the provisions of Law 2/2014 of Action and of the Foreign Service of the State, which places development cooperation between policies subject to the determinations of foreign action. However, it is the case-law that has verified the existence of a wide margin of action by the autonomous communities abroad on the basis of their own powers and developed by them, together with the rest of the actors of decentralized cooperation, in the field of international development cooperation. The bill starts from the recognition of the plurality of actors, which it values as active, but emphasizes that this plurality represents a complexity of the governance of the whole, and it is precisely by establishing those instruments aimed at such coordination, complementarity and governance of the system when it limits and even prevents the development of their capacities by the autonomous communities. Without prejudice to some coordination that may exist, there is no direct and centralized control under the terms of this draft law and, less so, the excessively broad attribution to the organs of the General Administration of the State, with the claim corresponding to the submission before them of the various territorial administrations in the deployment of these solidarity actions. In addition, the first final provision refers only to article 149.1.3.ay and in no case mention is made of the necessary safeguard of the capacity of the autonomous communities to act in this area or of the principle of solidarity among peoples. We have reached an agreement that improves the law, as I said at the outset, and we believe that this vision will be guided by neutralising much of that centralist approach and also incorporating important advances for decentralized cooperation, as well as other advances that, as you said, Minister, are already incorporated. In this connection, we have reached an agreement that in the parliamentary procedure we may expressly include in that first final provision the need to cooperate in the strengthening of peaceful relations and effective cooperation between the different peoples of the earth, because it seems to us that the philosophy of cooperation prevails in that article. In addition, this provision will be supplemented by the necessary competitive safeguards, including the reference to the recognised capacity for action of the autonomous communities in the area of cooperation for sustainable development. We have also agreed that the master plan is limited to the General Administration of the State and not to the entire Administration, which also has and exercises its cooperation policies. We also appreciate very positively having reached an agreement with the Government to correct in the parliamentary process that centralist approach in the law, in particular in relation to the planning, monitoring and evaluation instruments, and which are also confined to the scope of the General Administration of the State, not to the autonomous communities and other actors of decentralized cooperation, which already have their own management, evaluation and governance instruments. In clear competition, the draft law also committed all public administrations budgetaryly with the aim of allocating this amount to cooperation. It is an objective that we certainly share, but we must not forget that it is the autonomous communities themselves and the local entities that, sovereignly, can and must decide on their budgets, also in the area of cooperation. The progress that we consider to be worth highlighting because it is frankly important is the following. We have agreed that the law will include for the first time the possibility of the autonomous communities being able to participate in programmes of cooperation delegated to the European Union in the terms agreed upon. We very much appreciate this undoubted progress, which EAJ-PNV claims, while supporting the drive for decentralised cooperation. Also, in EAJ-PNV we have been claiming that the autonomous communities have to play a greater role in relation to European and international cooperation forums. We have agreed that some progress in this regard will be included in the law in some way. As for the agreement, it was to withdraw the amendment. Our position on the law will be determined when the parliamentary procedure ends, because there are other issues, such as the scope of de-bureaucratisation or the participation of local authorities in the sectoral conference. We have many areas to negotiate and we will be there. On the whole amendment of VOX, of course, we will vote against, because we fully agree that cooperation must be aligned with the 2030 Agenda, with the Sustainable Development Goals and also with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and also with its feminist approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u92	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. In Citizens we have expressly acknowledged and said that this was not the law on international cooperation that we would have wanted, but we believe that it is an improved law; in fact, we have worked to contribute to it, we did so in the subcommittee for the analysis of the regulatory framework in order to update the current 1998 law and we believe that, in some way, our seal is in that subcommission report; so just as we believe it may be in the bill itself, we hope that it is in the final text. But it is true that we have said that this law could and should be something more ambitious. It could be more ambitious because there is still room for strengthening issues such as humanitarian aid, to which you referred, and I would remind you that the subcommission's report precisely placed it at 15%; for overcoming a United Nations agenda with a temporary framework that, although nominally, is delimited in 2030 and we believe it should go further, or because it could be more explicit in regulating something as essential as the legal and operating regime of the Spanish Sustainable Development Fund, which is called upon to replace the Fund for the Promotion of Development, which does not seem to have served in recent years because of its rigidity and low level of actual project implementation. But, as I say to you, I think it should also be more ambitious because this law, in order to be really an up-to-date and renewing law, in a true spirit of reform of the Spanish cooperation system, should have addressed issues such as the current global reality following a pandemic such as the one we have experienced, given the evidence of a climate change that threatens us and everything that has forced us to assume, the demand today also that cooperation be subject to processes of evaluation and control of previous and subsequent projects in an absolutely objective and independent way, or that it assumes, for example, the existence of a private sector that can be an important, responsible, relevant and very useful player in the field of cooperation, together with, and not in discussion with, non-profit entities. But in the face of what this law can or should be, we believe that there is a legacy of the work of the parliamentary groups that does not allow us to reject this bill on a scale as proposed by the VOX Group. In fact, we believe that there is more positive than there may be in the norm. Yes, I do, and also referring to some of the discussions that we have had, that you yourselves considered this to be a policy of state and, therefore, of state ownership. We hope that decentralization will not lead to a transfer of ownership of external action. That's what we trust. In any case, beyond all that I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we believe that we really have started to walk in the right direction, but it is true that there are steps to be taken, and because we want to do so as a party, we want to walk that path by contributing even more in the future, we are not going to share the amendment to the whole that they present for the reasons that they make in their group. You say in your amendment as the first reason that this law breaks with the sovereignty of the Spanish State by subordinating itself to that established by a sort of world government that no Spanish has voted. Mr. Sánchez del Real, with the personal affection that you know I have, when you stop talking about Soros it seems that you have softened a little and you are talking only about global government, about government in the shadow, the hand that stirs the cradle... I honestly tell you, I don't understand what national sovereignty is being given or granted when you're not even able to identify what you call a sort of world government. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real shows a document while making negative gestures]] What you do in this case is to invent a non-existent monster with which to put fear to see if it hangs, when nothing, absolutely nothing of what is in an agreement adopted by the States members of the United Nations, an international pact between States precisely the result of the sovereignty that each of them has over their decisions, implies a transfer of sovereignty. Moreover, we should ask you in what line, in what paragraph of the article of this law you see that transfer of sovereignty of the Spanish State, especially when in VOX you claim that that sovereignty is given to something that you do not even really identify and call it, as I say, a sort of world government. You have to recognize that it must be something so mysterious that you have not even been able to take a correct picture of it. [[Mr Sánchez del Real shows a document]] Secondly, you speak of a strong ideological content in this law, and the proof of that, you say, would be that in your title you have terrible words: sustainable and global. It is true that the Council of State recommended lowering one of the messages of the explanatory part that appear in the preamble to the draft law simply for reasons of form, but at some point they seem obsessed with issues such as gender identity or sexual diversity, when for someone with a true liberal mentality it is simply the explanation of a reality that exists today and of a reflection of equality without any kind of nuance or conditioning, which, moreover, is enshrined in article 14 of our Constitution, precisely a feature of that sovereignty that Spain is going to maintain in any case. Finally, you say that this law is empty of contents, and in that we could agree in part, but precisely to fill those gaps, those gaps of content, is the process of partial amendments to which my party is going to submit and is going to submit to the bill. That is where we can point out those gaps that need to be filled out, and in Citizens we have just mentioned a number of issues that we want to complete with our amendments, because that is what we believe is the game and the parliamentary function. You also say in your amendment to the whole of this law that this law is overly ambitious. Man, being overly ambitious and at the same time being empty of content doesn't seem to fit much. And of course the law does not condition any general budget law, is that no law does and you know it perfectly. What cannot be, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is that the law is empty and full at the same time, unless they have discovered a strange law of cooperation of the east man of the cat. I insist, in Citizens we believe that this law can and should be better, because it has to adapt to the challenges of the 21st century and it lacks that ambition to do so successfully and to situate itself in a reality that is already here. That is why in Citizens we are going to work on the Paper precisely to amend the text. And it's not that we don't like it or we do like the 2030 Agenda, it's that we believe that in many respects that agenda has already been cut short. In Citizens we want to go much further so that it is a good law of cooperation, that it is so good that at the same time it could be, I hope, the last one because such international cooperation is not necessary precisely in a world of free and equal citizens and sovereign States who cooperate on an equal footing for a better future, for a global future, because that future will be of all or it will not be of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u94	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u95	Good morning, Minister. In the Republican Parliamentary Group we will obviously vote no to this amendment to the whole, to negationism and to the hate agenda of the extreme right. We, in the Republican Parliamentary Group, are committed to cooperation that puts life in the centre, a dignified life, that favors a decentralized system of cooperation with a broad, feminist, intersecting, anti-racist, ecological view; that defends and promotes the rights of children, that has as protagonists the people, the co-workers and the entities. We have recorded amendments. Having said that, we want to emphasise a subject that is very important to us. Externalisation of borders and migration control are risks for development cooperation, and I explain myself. I'll start by giving you two news about this. The first, last Monday, as MEP Meri Pita has just said, at least one woman was killed by gunshots to the chest by Moroccan police. The police opened fire on a group of thirty-five people, including fifteen women and two children, who, in the absence of legal and safe routes, were trying to embark on a patera to cross Spain. That proves - I always say this here - that after the Melilla massacre, especially after the Melilla massacre, the use of violence by the Moroccan police, Minister, is accepted and protected by Europe and also by the Spanish State. By the way, whoever is listening to us here, please sign the manifesto made by nine organizations condemning genocide on the southern border. Because deaths are not deaths, they are murders: they are systematic, they are planned and they are also organized. [[Applauds]] Second news. The PSOE killed the commission of inquiry that we requested eight political formations of this Congress in August on the massacre in Melilla. The PSOE, sadly, joins the right and the right to prevent us from investigating, to prevent us from asking anyone who could provide information at the political, criminal, civil, administrative level, to elucidate the facts of Melilla and also the responsibilities. In the Legislative, in this house, we could be six months or more thoroughly investigating the Melilla massacre, but the PSOE has replaced it with a simple appearance of the Minister of the Interior next Wednesday; indeed, because we, parliamentary groups in this House, also request, we recorded the request for the Minister's appearance, and not only the Minister of the Interior but also the President of the Government. We will have only a few minutes to speak, with which an appearance does not replace, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, a commission of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, the impact of the externalisation of borders and development cooperation policies linked to migration control is enormous and often fatal. This is demonstrated by the approach of the European Pact on Migration and Asylum. I look at what I am quoting now: Development cooperation is one of the cross-compliance tools used by the European Union and the Member States for border control and externalisation, but also for economic-commercial agreements and investments, readmission and visa policies, associations, political-diplomatic relations, etc., all this against people who migrate, against people who seek refuge. Ladies and gentlemen, development aid must focus on eradicating poverty and improving the living conditions of people in the countries to which it is intended. In no case should it be directed or conditioned to issues of migration control. It is worrying and outrageous that development cooperation funds are currently being channelled to issues far removed from their objectives and focused purely on border control and externalization. In a recent CEAR investigation, it has been found that prioritization of cooperation projects with certain countries responds in part to their willingness to partner with European Union countries in matters of migration control - a shame - especially with regard to the funds of the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Africa for migration control and new financing instruments, such as the Neighbourhood, Development and International Cooperation Instrument. In the case of Spain, the Ministry of the Interior allocates official development aid funds for police cooperation with these countries. I give only two examples; there are more. First, Mauritania, with several projects linked to the control of migrations and borders, such as the POC or the project - open quotes - The European Union for the nexus of security, resilience and development. Secondly, Senegal, where there are disbursements of official Spanish development assistance for police cooperation activities by the Ministry of the Interior. By the way, they accounted for 4 % of the net total for the period 2016 to 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very concerned that the conditionality of the provision of Spanish aid in the form of official development assistance to border control is not established directly or transparently in any of these countries, but it is important to bear in mind that conditionality can be easily visible, in addition to being able to be related not only to monetary development cooperation items, but also to other aspects such as investment, strategic alignment or diplomatic relations. Ladies and gentlemen, the deployment of ODA to externalize and control borders can kill, yes, as in Melilla a few months ago. And it's that letting people die gives money, letting them suffer gives money and enslaving gives money, as Helena Maleno said. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u96	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for your presentation and for the defence you have made of the law. I would like to begin by expressing my deep sadness at the fire that has occurred in the province of Granada - which is my province - where more than 5000 hectares have been burned, and thanking Infoca staff for their work and because, fortunately, their stabilization has been achieved. [[Applauds]] I share with you, Minister, most of the approaches you have made in relation to the law, I think they are undeniable things. We understand that, above all, it is not the time to paralyse the process of its debate. There has been a demand - as you have said - for many years to update a regulation that is of the year 1998 nothing less, and it is a commitment of this government to do so before the end of the legislature. A process has been made as participatory as possible and contributions have been made, both within this Parliament and at the government level, and at the level of relations with civil society, with the NGO Coordinator, etc., and that is hardly rebuttable because it is there. Regardless of the specific assessment that is made after its content article by article and provision by provision, it is worth highlighting, highlighting and, therefore, we believe that it is now up to us to get to the paper and that everyone makes their contributions there, that there is a debate and that the content is concrete and improved. For our part, we believe that it is important that many of the contributions that we continue to make from outside the collective, such as the NGO Coordinator, CERMI, Child Cooperation, etc., continue to be discussed and can be incorporated through the amendments that are finally adopted during this process. Also, from our perspective, we believe that the issue of decentralized cooperation, as the PNV spokesman rightly said, has some important gaps and a certain vision that does not entirely correspond to the multi-national reality and the real division of competences that exists at the level of the Spanish State. And I want to tell the spokesman for the Citizens' Group that autonomous communities and local entities are also states. Therefore, when it comes to State policy, it is not necessarily a centralizing policy, but rather a policy of sufficient importance to push that State to defend it at all levels, respecting of course the competences. [[Applauds]] I shall reply to the whole amendment tabled by the VOX Group. I don't know why you're offended when you're told your group doesn't believe in cooperation. Those of us who are members of the Cooperation Committee We have had three years of meetings, and it is very clear that you, in each session - whether it be a debate on GNP, an appearance by the Minister or the Secretariat of State - are basically dealing with two issues: to sow permanent suspicion about the functioning of cooperation at the level of waste, possible corruption, etc., or to use it to advance your ideological agenda - you are - or such issues. I can read you some of the things that you have presented as a GNP in the Committee on Cooperation so that you see that I am not inventing or inventing it by the Minister, is what you have presented: No proposal for a law on the abolition of development cooperation with the Kingdom of Morocco, No proposal for a law on the correct use of the corporate identity manual and the national flag in international cooperation for Spanish development, No proposal for a law on the revision and evaluation of objects intended for cooperation, No proposal for a law on the promotion of the Spanish language in the Republic of the Philippines, No proposal for a law on the management of Spain's external debt with non-democratic regimes, etc. I could go on, but they are all of that kind, so you go there to give a very concrete message about cooperation: on the one hand, to sow suspicion with cases, for example, such as that which unfortunately happened in Panama - in which are Spanish cooperation and the Spanish State the injured -, which use it permanently to sow suspicion about how cooperation works, and, on the other hand, for things such as promoting the Spanish language in the Philippines, as if we were still in time of the colony. You speak of sovereignty and here I would like to stop. I am very grateful when we talk about sovereignty in the context of a State that is part of the European Union or of NATO; a State that does not have control over its monetary policy and gave it up to a democratically elected institution and a State that has been subject in its fiscal policies to the Stability and Growth Pact of the European Union, with all the damage and suffering that the implementation of these measures has entailed for the Spanish people. Therefore, talking here about rhetoric, about defending sovereignty in the face of global powers in this context, and so on, really gives me a lot of grace. In addition, I would like to know where is the defense of the sovereignty that you do, as my colleague Rafa Mayoral said in his intervention from the previous point, in the conflict between the multinationals of the VTC sector and the taxi sector, when you support the Ayuso law in Madrid or will surely also support what is being promoted in Andalusia. Today in Andalusia they are on the street, defending the real sovereignty of the people and the workers, the taxi workers protesting against the VTCs. [[Applauds]] I would like to know where your defence of sovereignty lies when we are talking here, for example, about imposing taxes on certain multinationals, for example, on the technological sector, so that they can pay what they deserve for the activity they do here. Where is the defense you make of sovereignty and what do you vote when such debates arise in this Congress? I would also like to know where the defense of sovereignty is when, for example, companies that were at the time public of strategic sectors such as Endesa, have ended up in the hands of Italian public enterprises. Where is the defense of sovereignty? [[Mr Sánchez del Real points out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] When initiatives are put forward to reverse all that, you always vote against it. [[Applauds]] I would like to know where is the defense of sovereignty to go against the implementation of vulture funds in the Spanish real estate market. What initiatives have you presented against that? When have they voted in favour of establishing policies that will end this domination of the vulture funds over the Spanish real estate market? And, of course, after the speech you made here this morning defending an ode to NATO and the establishment of military bases of a foreign power on Spanish territory, defending sovereignty sounds like a joke. [[Applauds]] I'll finish with a question. Indeed, as the spokesman for Citizens has said, when you talk about globalism and this sort of thing, you do it to scare me, but you really remind me of Mr. Fernando Arrabal on that television show of the 1980s saying that millennialism is already here, millennialism has arrived. [[Laughter]] I tell you that for other issues your speech is a real fear, but for this particular one, globalism, you are a real meme. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u98	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Gazquez Collado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u99	Thank you, President. Good morning. I will try to scream less because, frankly, I think when you scream it's because you don't have arguments and you have to use other kinds of tactics. The draft law we are discussing is a new and necessary general framework for international development cooperation and will require regulatory development in several sections. It is an improved text and this must be done in the Paper process, but it is not a draft that can be rejected in its entirety. That would be the no for the no and that doesn't go with us, we leave it to others. We are the alternative, we are a constructive party and with our partial amendments, which we trust will be adopted, the law will be improved. To the Lordship of VOX - the colleague and spokesman of the Commission knows that I appreciate him and that I am very fond of him - I must say with all my affection that I thought the presentation in the role of the rather chaotic amendment and that the arguments seem somewhat disordered and sometimes - with all my respect and, I insist, with all my affection - irrational. Nor is it worth answering to other interventions that do not know the history of Spain or how the state security forces and bodies work. The People's Party is absolutely committed to international development cooperation as a reflection of the society we represent. Spanish society is, as we are, a generous and committed society, but it is also a demanding society, as it requires efficiency and transparency of public resources. That is precisely why, and even if it is on the sidelines, society is outraged by the ERE case. That is precisely why, because of the lack of efficiency, the lack of transparency and the waste of public resources. [[Applauds]] The Government does not carry out international cooperation, it is carried out by each and every Spanish citizen with its various contributions to the State's arks. That is why, I insist, when the State's arks are embezzled, the Spanish citizen is outraged and seems bloody to him what is happening. Regardless, this is why the best law, which is ambitious, with clear objectives and which ensures the effectiveness of the final destination of cooperation, must be adopted. There are several objectives to be pursued by the new law, and I will quote three that seem to us to be paramount and that the People's Party has long denounced. Of course, it must be guaranteed by law that what is happening today will not happen again. Firstly, the lack of transparency. The AECID accounts for the year 2021 are not published - and we are already in September - and it has passed exactly the same with memory; those for 2020 were too late. Secondly, the lack of planning. Currently there is no master plan and the last was the People's Party, of the triennium 2018-2021. This should have been working for nine months now, but, Minister, you just told us - and I was really surprised that I was negative - that we are working on the master plan. If it ends in December 2021 and it's September 2022, it would have to run for nine months now. And you're working on the master plan? Let's be serious! Because AECID itself says it is 'the basic planning element that sets out sectoral and geographical objectives and priorities'. We don't have it yet and we're working empty, I insist. Thirdly, the lack of budget implementation. That is, we lack transparency, lack of planning and lack of budget implementation. He had assumed that the item would be raised in general State budgets when it was not real because the funds would not be implemented afterwards. The item is raised in budgets, which is not real, but, when the execution comes, I insist, they are not executed. It is particularly serious in the funds for cooperation in the Phonprode and the Water and Sanitation Fund. He has also mentioned that cooperation in the times of the People's Party has come down, knowing that it is not. He knows that the revenues went up and, therefore, the percentage seemed lower, but not because it was budgeted or executed less, that it was executed more, but because the revenues were higher because Spain and the economy were doing well. In addition to these issues, there are many others that we have been denouncing for a long time. Cooperation has certain shortcomings, which the People's Party always emphasizes and which should be further clarified in this law so that it does not go through the current management, which has quite a few shortcomings in this regard. Spain's international image must be enhanced through cooperation, culture and language through the Cervantes Institute; Spain's participation in the key international bodies in cooperation must be enhanced, since Spain's representation in decision-making bodies is lacking and we have no specific weight to be heard and valued, in our opinion, in the definition of objectives and priorities; the role of Spanish companies working abroad must be strengthened, both in consultation and in implementation, in all areas, in health, education, energy, environment, water and infrastructure, that is to say, strengthening public-private collaboration; the professionalism of the staff working in cooperation must be recognised; the projects must be properly monitored and evaluated; coordination with decentralised cooperation must be strengthened; links with the target populations of cooperation must be strengthened, strategic destinations with historical or geographical preservation with Spain, such as Latin America, the Philippines, Guinea, Magreb, the Sahel, and, since then, this law must be brought into line with administrative rules. I want to stop and insist, before the end, on an issue on which we are particularly concerned: the right not to migrate. Not only do we have to defend the right to migrate, but we have to defend the right not to migrate and link international cooperation with immigration. Cooperation with countries of irregular immigration must be given priority, so that they are given just opportunities to develop their lives safely and with work in their country of origin, not to force them to emigrate and not to think that this is a success, but a failure. In fact, we thank the Socialist Party which agreed with us and reflects this point in the motions for resolutions adopted in the debate on the state of the nation. In short, we are faced with a new legislation for cooperation that must be committed to many and various objectives that will help us to put an end to poverty and inequality, such as children, youth, women, the environment, education, health and infrastructure, all of which are reflected in the 2030 Agenda, which, by the way, was signed by the People's Party when it ruled. And one fundamental thing is that the objectives have to help us achieve the implementation of democracy and freedom in all the recipient countries. With democracy and freedom everything is more just, everything works better and the goals are better and faster. [[Applauds]] Finally, we ask again, and I know that the minister has the best of talents, will according to the main governing party, the Socialist Party. Just as twenty-five years ago the ruling People's Party was able to give up positions and agree a law with the Socialist Party that has lasted twenty-five years, I now ask the Socialist Party to do the same. We, as you know, minister, are in the best predisposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u100	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Casaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u101	Thank you, President. Welcome, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez del Real, the time you have for your speech is usually devoted to presenting the initiative you are defending. Look, of those twelve minutes, more than seven have been meant to insult the minister, the rest to talk about other things and not a second to talk about his amendment to the whole, although it is understandable. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real raises his hand and shows three fingers]] It is understandable that you do not want citizens to know its content, because you are presenting in this House an amendment that breaks with the great consensus of decades on development policies. However, in my opinion, your amendment is tremendously consistent with yourself and tremendously consistent with that parallel reality that many experts are talking about today and, moreover, with it they not only confront the Spanish but also the whole of humanity. [[Mr. Sánchezdel Real: That's not true!]] This amendment is pure terraples towards the great challenges of the world that have been pointed out, as I said before, by experts of all kinds, but that you, your populism and the far right to which you represent, strive to systematically deny it. [[Applauds]] This attack not only on the values and principles that underpin Spanish cooperation, but also on our people. Look, we have a country with a citizenship that overflows with solidarity, empathy, tolerance and respect, and then you are and your political choice. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real makes affirmative gestures]] [[Mr. Sánchez del Real raises his hand, shows four fingers and says: Four ministers]] You and your policies are an amendment to the whole, they are an amendment to the whole of our Constitution, to international treaties and to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.Who do you believe you are attacking against the world? Who do you think you're attacking? Because this bill is the result of a broad process of participation in which the various actors involved directly or indirectly in cooperation policies have been key. It is a process of participation that we started in this House with the work of the Sub-Commission, to which you were also a party, and which, after more than thirty appearances, issued a report that served to articulate the current draft law, but moreover, as the Minister pointed out, has been enriched both in the public consultation phases and in the process of hearing and public information. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real makes negative signs]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can relax. For the first time in this law you do not have to face everything that comes from the Government of Spain, because this is the law of the sector, a sector to which we can only thank you for your involvement, your commitment and the magnificent work that we have developed together. [[Applauds]] But you cling to your negationist model and speak of a subordination of the Spanish legal system a so-called globalist agenda, an agenda that, I am sorry to disappoint you, is nothing supposed, because it arises from the process of consultation and wider participation in the history of the United Nations, as well as from the greater consensus among governments and various factors such as civil society, the private sector or academia. It is not surprising when the 193 countries that make up the United Nations recognize in the 2030 Agenda the reference guide for the work of the international community from 2015 to 2030. Spain, of course, wants to contribute to the progress of the sustainable development goals with all its capacities because, ladies and gentlemen, that is also homemaking. And we are far from his reactionary perception, which defends positions as rigorous as the global crisis we are experiencing is not the result of a pandemic that has paralysed the world, nor is it the result of a war against that pandemic caused by a tyrant who is using energy as a weapon of war. None of this affects because, according to you and your spokesman in the Committee on Monitoring the Sustainable Development Goals, all the evils that haunt us, absolutely all, are the fault of the 2030 Agenda. What's the point? [[Mr. Sánchez del Real sits down and utters words that are not perceived.-Laughter]] If Putin had known this before, how much suffering we would have saved, right? [[Applauds]] As I said, far from this perception, the time we have had to live has shown that progress towards achieving sustainable development goals is urgent. Now more than ever we need alliances to move forward in reducing inequality, in the fight against climate change, in protecting and promoting civic and democratic spaces, in guaranteeing social justice, the rights of migrants, the rights of women - yes, ladies and gentlemen, those who are in serious retrogression where you influence or where you let them influence - in working for peace and in ensuring the fulfilment of human rights, because all this is Agenda 2030 and development cooperation is regarded as one of the lever policies that expresses Spain's commitment to this transformation agenda. You call all this to ideologize, ideology that, by the way, marks our political priorities and ideology that, by the way, we see strengthened in every process of participation set in motion to detect the real needs of the citizenry, ladies and gentlemen. With this text we renew the legal framework of Spanish cooperation, responding to the demands of the sector, while adapting them to a reality that requires us to act in the face of the major global challenges. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you are presenting an amendment to the whole of this House which is opposed to the great consensus of our time. And you speak of sovereignty, but you see that the people are sovereign through their political representation. Do you really believe that you are useful to the sovereign people, disdainful of the social majority? Because this bill is a reflection of a useful policy exercise aimed at making the best diagnosis to renew an obsolete regulatory framework and a system of cooperation virtually dismantled between 2010 and 2018. Mrs Gázquez, they were not only economic resources, they were material resources, human resources and also institutional architecture. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are in time to renew that with the aim of providing Spain with a system of modern, effective cooperation, with capabilities, resources and stability, capable of addressing current weaknesses and addressing present and future challenges, with the aim of making Spanish cooperation a genuine State policy. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you can go on unrecognized that this country is another country that is very different from that which you look forward to remembering, but that is that in your efforts your contribution to Spanish politics is becoming more and more caricatured.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u102	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u103	I'm on my way. In short, Spanish cooperation articulates all those values that you insult and is a pride for all the Spanish and for all the Spanish because Spanish cooperation is the best brand Spain, it has been for decades and will continue to be despite you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u105	Before moving on to the next item, I would like to take this opportunity to warmly greet the President of the Senate and the President of the Congress of the Dominican Republic, President Estrella and President Pacheco, and the entire delegation. Welcome to Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u106	Amendments approved by the Senate to the Business Creation and Growth Bill. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Denial]] All right. We move on to the next speaker. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u107	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Here the parliamentary process of the so-called law creates and grows, after its passage through the Senate, and the foreseeable approval by this House. As I said at the time of its handling in the Congress of Deputies - I also said in this rostrum -, which should be good news, even a reason for celebration for all those who are always present to small and medium-sized enterprises and we want to support them... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u109	Thank you, President. He said that what should be good news and even cause for celebration for companies in our country and for those we always support, has ended up being a missed opportunity for our country; another. I am not going to affect the changes that the law has undergone in the Upper House, in fact, we support most of the amendments incorporated, because we believe that they improve the text that came out of Congress weeks ago, but, unfortunately, it remains insufficient. [[The Lord]] We have already said this in its handling: we, in Citizens, fully share both the spirit and the objective of the law. That is why we do not understand that an initiative, which could have turned the Spanish business landscape, ends up being a missed opportunity. This law suffers from a chronic problem in our country: it is designed more to facilitate the work of the Administration than to improve the lives of small businesses. One of the main problems of the Spanish economy is the small size of our companies and, without the intention of being repetitive, I must again insist that this law still lacks elements so that it can meet its objective, which should be not just the creation of companies, but the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. I have to tell you that, really, the growth of Spanish companies and companies only appears in the title of the law. It is clear from this law that those who have the job of being politicians have never had to face the country's bureaucracy. The law creates and grows remains in a sort of philosophical essay, which would not be bad if the reality and day-to-day of an entrepreneur was not another world very different from what you believe. It is a law that supports regulatory improvement and the business climate, but establishes a procedure for the formation of companies that is already out of date. How do you understand this? We already knew, ladies and gentlemen, before passing this law, that this procedure will be amended in the coming months by another bill. Wasn't it easier to start this law already with the new procedure? No, no, because, as always, you care more about the quotas of your ministries than making life simple for businesses. For example, they could have taken advantage of our single window amendment. It is a law that amends the Market Unit Guarantee Act, a reform in which the main addressee is the Administration itself Once again the Government putting the Administration ahead of the companies! The government is excited because it changes a council for a sectoral conference, but, ladies and gentlemen, I say this again: regular is not to change the order or the name of things, regular is to give tools to businesses and citizens so that they can exercise their rights without depending on the goodwill of the administration. Because if something depends on the administrations on duty and that the administration is good and has a good day, it is no longer a citizens' right, but a favor that the administration does them. This law pays little attention to the most important barriers to the creation, activity and growth of businesses, and I have said so at first. Already during the process in Congress, in Citizens we ask that the regulatory thresholds that make it difficult to grow companies be changed, something that, in theory, is the main objective of this law: to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to move forward. The government told us, over and over again, that they could not accept our amendments because that did not affect business growth. But the worst part is they used the excuse that no one asked for this. I've already taken the colors out of them in the previous debate, and I have to tell you again: a liar is caught before a fucker is caught. Seeing the summary of the contributions made by the companies in the consultation process - oh, surprise!-, most of the associations that submitted their proposals at the hearing of this law were actually asking to raise the regulatory thresholds. The Government, of course, vetoed our amendments calling for these thresholds to be raised, because it said that it would entail an increase in expenditure or a decrease in income. As much as we insisted that we were just changing the step to make one statement or another, and not depriving the Treasury of collecting more, they continued to make deaf ears. With a record collection of EUR 22 billion for inflation this year, a few days ago, I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the government's main problem right now should not be the collection. In short, as I said at the beginning of my speech, after his passage through the Senate, the liberals continue to have the same feeling with this law: that it could have really served to support the growth of the small and medium-sized enterprises of our country, removing bureaucracy and reducing regulatory barriers and digitizing, once and for all, the administrative-business relationship, but it has remained, as I said, at another lost opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u110	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u111	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally going to pass an important law, a law with which, surely, some of your ladies and gentlemen - we have just checked - want to put water into wine. I do not tell you that you are right, but, objectively, this is a law that improves the legislative context with regard to business creation and facilitates its development. This law has improved substantially since the entry of the text sent by the Government, and that has certainly been thanks to the input of the different groups; even some who today will vote against or abstain today have been able to make different amendments. In the Democratic Party we have also contributed to the substantial improvement of this bill. In fact, we have incorporated thirty of our amendments into the procedure in Congress: eleven amendments incorporated directly into the paper, three negotiated in the paper, two negotiated in the committee and, finally, four negotiated in plenary; of these thirty, nine correspond to aspects linked to the fight against lateness. They know that we have a presented initiative that seeks to establish a sanctioning regime that has not been incorporated into this bill. However, with regard to these nine amendments, of which we are all very pleased, we now have as our objective that they can be implemented and implemented, and here all levels of public administration also have their responsibility. The public administration is licit in many competitions throughout an entire exercise and must ensure that contractors pay the subcontractors in time and form. In this regard, we are pleased that there have been further improvements in the Senate process. Specifically, I would like to acknowledge - and we will support it - Senate Amendment No 50, tabled by the People's Party and amending Article 10.1. In this amendment perhaps someone only sees a matter of nuances, but it is a very relevant and very important issue. Why? Because what so far was a right of the subcontractor in respect of the contractor to claim interest on delay in the event of delay in payment, is no longer a right of the subcontractor, which is normally in an inferior position in the negotiation, but rather an obligation for the contractor to pay the subcontractor not only the interest on delay, but also compensation for the cost of collection. That seems to us relevant, important. Until now, different political formations - I believe that at another time the People's Party also had this vision - understood that the law should protect it, but that the parties should freely negotiate it. The reality is that the imbalance of forces between the parties, usually between the subcontractor - a small and medium-sized company - with respect to a contractor - usually a large company - made it impossible to negotiate, and in most cases these subcontractors did not dare - and put the quotes they thought necessary - to claim the interest of delay, since this had a known end: you, Mr. subcontractor, are no longer going to work with this contractor, which is the one that ends up awarding the various competitions. Therefore, I am not hurt by garments, just as I have at times criticized the lukewarmness of the People's Party in relation to the fight against lateness, in this case thank you for the initiative. We will support it and, if I may, I will also ask the rest of the House to support it, because there is a major change in the fight against lateness. We amend, through the nine amendments we have incorporated, the grant law, with three amendments; the electronic bill law, with another amendment; the unfair competition law, with another amendment, which is also very relevant, because it is an element of unfair competition not paying in time and form to suppliers or subcontractors; that of the State Council of the SME, with another amendment; also the Law 3/2004 - which was important and celebrated at that time - with which we amend the law on combating late payment, and we also incorporate a modification of the law of the public sector. Some of the other amendments that come from the Senate are not going to support them because we understand that they harm, for example, small and medium-sized enterprises when they are asked for an additional deadline on the electronic invoice. We think it's a mistake. In any case, if I may, I would also like to end by congratulating all those who have intervened in the processing of this law and the Commission as a whole, because it is a clear example that the legislative texts improve greatly in their parliamentary procedure. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u112	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u113	With your permission, Mr. President. Good morning, good morning, gentlemen. Today, the process of the familiarly known law creates and grows. First of all, I would like to thank all the associations, all the university professors and all the economists who have accompanied us through this process and the struggle of years against lateness, particularly the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity and all those who for years have not given up in the effort to combat this anticompetitive and anti-efficient scourge, which has only caused thousands of good projects to be aborted by the law of the jungle and the false and perverse agreement between the parties. We started burying him today, but he's not at all. I would like to thank again our lawyer, Monica Moreno, her team and her colleagues in the Senate, and to reiterate - this time I do not want to be confused as an apostle - Peter Casares' gratitude for his self-denial and commitment to dialogue. You're Petrus in this law, Peter. Although the youth of the socialist spokesman prevented him from studying Latin, I am sure that someone from his group will assist him in the translation; my most distinguished consideration should be extended to the rest of the fellow speakers. On the amendments that we are voting on today, in particular we will welcome the adoption of Amendment 77, on the proposal of our parliamentary group in the Senate, in which our Senator Don Pau Furriol has done such a good job, with the aim that the translation of documents written in foreign languages that are presented in the register can be done to the Spanish or to any other official language of the province of the register, and that we hope that it will be ratified, as I said, by this House. We share that of the PNV - with whom transactions - for its defense of the civil codes proper to the nations that make up, rebus sic stantibus, the Spanish State. Finally, the text returns from the Senate partially improved with everyone's contest. We regret, however, that, once again, the large parties of bipartisanism have made clamps, once again, to prevent the adoption of a sanctioning regime against lateness. We believe that this is an essential mechanism. Why? You will tell me what the existence of the mandatory maximum payment periods is good for if there is no penalty for their compliance. Although it is true that this text incorporates measures and improvements to combat the scourge of lateness, it is no less true that the application of a sanctioning regime that seems necessary to us to us has remained in its entirety, and that therefore imposes on us duties and tasks that remain pending with which the Republican Left maintains its commitment. It is essential that lateness not continue to be an illegitimate financing tool for large companies to harm SMEs and self-employed workers, because the lateness of large companies not only harms the development, growth and productivity of the smaller ones, but even their survival remains in question, and more so in the uncertain times ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are passing a good law, a law that passes through. Hence our assent, but there is still a long way to go to eliminate the comparative aggravation that currently suffers thousands of SMEs and thousands of self-employed workers in front of the big companies, those on the Bernabéu stage: unequal access to public procurement, unequal access to financing and being the big marginalized ones of the BOE - to name only a few of the many aggravations to which they are subjected -. What is really fair and necessary is to courageously take decisive measures in the economic and social spheres to end up with structural, historical and endemic deficits that affect them and those that ministries only have in mind when it comes to making short-term rather than structural measures. We are committed to that endeavour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u115	Dear colleagues, law creates and grows, law of creation and growth of companies. Creating companies and making them grow is a really hard job, it would be very hard even if the economy and markets worked as the dogmatic economic manuals say, if there were that invisible hand that theoretically is responsible for ensuring correct competition and self-regulation of markets, but it is much more difficult to create and grow companies in the real market, in real life. If you go down into the world of reality and talk to the enterprising people of your constituency, you will know that these people do not believe in the invisible hand of dogmatic economists and do believe in the invisible hands of those who do not generate but distort competition. Therefore, they know that micro-enterprises, that small businesses, are sardines that compete with sharks and compete by paying many tolls. The first of the tolls is that of oligopoly, because these companies have to pay the toll of the energy oligopoly on their energy bills, they have to pay the toll of the bank oligopoly on their financial bill and, then, they have to go compete in the market and they have to compete - as the partner who preceded me has said - in a customer ecosystem, in a system of customer networks and in a system of cartels. Of cartels because, if they have a construction company or a consulting company, they have to compete with those bad practices collusive of competition that the liberal assumptions that always speak here in favor of economic concentration never remember them. And those who don't belong to those customer networks have to compete in that huge disadvantage. In that sense, this law, the law creates and grows, is a positive law. It is a law so that, in addition to all those tolls that already have to pay small businesses to compete with sharks, they do not have to pay the bureaucratic toll. In this regard, this law expedites, debureaucratizes the creation and growth of enterprises, and creates a series of instruments to enable them to survive in that hostile ecosystem. It creates the possibility of setting up these companies, these companies with limited liability with an amount of one euro, with extremely agile procedures, digitising the system, allowing access to non-conventional financial instruments outside the banking system, to other more advanced forms of financing and, lastly, introducing instruments to combat late payment, despite the fact that the law is poor and has not just introduced a sanctioning regime as we advocate. In any case, it is an advance that will allow you to compete with greater agility. At this point that it has these positive parts - and that is why we support it - we must warn of something that is a very serious problem. It is a problem that, once again, this legislator is listening deafly to constitutional mandates, and is listening deafly to the constitutional mandate of article 129.2. Instead of giving cooperatives, labour societies and the social economy competitive advantages, what it is doing is providing them with a competitive disadvantage. Something which is in theory good, debureaucratizing the creation of societies of limited responsibility - and which we support - nevertheless has a perverse effect, a counterproductive effect, of which the Economic and Social Council has already warned us in its opinion. We have been warned by the social partners in this country, who, unfortunately, have been given so little attention. And so that it does not seem like something that this parliamentary group says, I will read you exactly what the Economic and Social Council's opinion says. It says: The cooperative corporate form must be adapted to the initiatives that are collected in this preliminary draft in order to facilitate the formation of enterprises quickly, agilely and telematically, in particular those referred to CIRCE, the single electronic document, the EAPs. These measures should be extended to labour companies, as they must now be registered on a prior basis in the Administrative Register of Labour Companies, which delays their registration in the Commercial Register, de facto placing this business model at a disadvantage with respect to the rest. That is to say, we have introduced speeding up, we have introduced advantages of de-bureaucratizing limited liability societies, which is not bad, but to the extent that we give away alternative companies, social economy companies, companies that are not limited in liability, we are creating a new competitive disadvantage towards that economic sector, that of the social economy, which as a constitutional imperative would have to be that of preferential attention on the part of this House. With which, what does our group have to say? Okay. We have shown sensitivity when it comes to speeding up, and de-bureaucratizing, the facilitation of limited liability societies, but this can have a perverse effect, and it is the one that is already taking place: that when young people who have solidarity values and want to undertake economically with solidarity values and go to a management or to an advisory body to form a society, they will quickly redirect to companies with other values that are not based on a person, a vote or democratic decision-making; that they do not rely on the concept of social solidarity, but rather they will quickly send them to a limited society that is formed quickly and easily enormously, and it is good that it is so fast, so agile and so anti-bureaucratic, but, please, let us agree, if not by belief in Article 129.2 of the Constitution - which I assume that many of the groups present here are totally contrary to that article, despite their supposedly constitutional suffams - and so much as an agreement with respect to the social partners, that it is not a system of social participation that we want to create, as a concept of economic and as well as a project of business people, and as a project of understandings with which we want to be in order. Therefore, from right here a reminder, yes that since soon we are going to process the law that the Ministry of Labour will bring, the law of cooperatives, in view of this sensitivity that our group has shown for companies of limited responsibility, we will see the sensitivity that other groups show when it is necessary to give an equal condition, at least - which should be preferred - for companies of the social economy, for cooperatives and for labour societies. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u116	Thank you. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u117	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The debate on this law on the creation and growth of businesses has already been held in the Committee on Economic Affairs, as some of the Members who have spoken before me have said, and subsequently in this plenary, and today we theoretically resume the debate to discuss those amendments that would modify the text that came to the Senate. But I would like to point out certain issues that I think you should listen to, because I would dare to say that the majority of those who occupy these seats - which are now empty - have not risked their heritage or faced the creepy and ruthless bureaucratic jungle that our SMEs and our self-employed on the other side of these walls, and that in many cases instead of being applauded and admired by taking the place they deserve in our society, they are criticized, demonised or accused of tax evaders, of being exploiters and even criminals. I speak to you from the experience that I treasure with almost thirty years of working life as an autonomous, who knows and has suffered in his own flesh and shared in others, which apisonator and insurmountable wall has become the Administration and bureaucracy for those who intend to create and grow a business or professional project that generates economic activity, wealth and employment, and without dying in the attempt. It would be ideal for those who draft these voluminous bills to regulate the activity of others to experience first-person experience, thus knowing the difficulties involved in initiating a vital project with own ideas and scarce resources. Of course, it will always be up to you to show the party's card and put yourself on some board of directors of those companies to which, by the way, with a lot of hypocrisy and makeup, today you want to subject new taxes by making the masses believe that with this collection they will solve the lives of the 13 million Spaniards who are at risk of poverty today. [[Applauds]] And they can't be more wrong, because all this is the result of their ignorance, their populism and their nightly idea that companies are an inexhaustible source that they can express without any negative consequences for their workers, in the first place, and for society as a whole. A couple of weeks ago I was told by a friend who is a farmer, who has a small holding: Inés, if the entrepreneurs in this field - in this case the primary sector of the countryside - we throw out the towel and get tired of crashing against the Administration, labor, tax, local or autonomous, then who is going to generate the jobs? Who's gonna do the job? And I answered him: Don't worry, we will always have a ministry, an observatory or a state agency to put us in. But then I thought, "Oh, no! We're from VOX, we don't have the license; we have it hard. [[Applauds]] This is the reality. As much as a bill is being brought to this House to market and sell a political product, the problem of discouragement, despair and exhaustion in Spain is not being solved. A few months ago, we could' bring to this House that populist claim of a tax on the great fortunes, which directly attacked the heart and financial muscle of those companies that, after years of effort and work, had managed to reach levels of employment generation, assets and turnover that could turn them into competitive within and outside our borders. But the problem with dolomies is that, as they yielded benefits, they should remain in the hands of Yolanda or Mary Jesus, who have never risked a euro, so that from the Olympus they will administer and distribute to the people as gifts the efforts of others. We agree that we must all contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure with our taxes - of course we do! - but when the balance is not compensated and public expenditure becomes unbearable, the system collapses. [[Applauds]] Why in Spain do we have a complete, atomized, business fabric in which micro-enterprises abound? Do you think this is random? Or does it have to do with the legislator having intervened the economy for decades voraciously, without leaving room for those companies to grow? Why don't many entrepreneurs make it up to them to grow up? Out of disdain? Or is it rather because administrative barriers are such that they become insurmountable walls? They are little David against Goliath, the businessman against the Administration, who far from helping him, encouraging him, encouraging him, persecuting him, harassing him and eventually exhausting himself. We are faced with a law with much philosophy and little solution, which reformulates the law of market unity, which is tempered by that invented concept that you bring here from co-governance. We are continuously harmonizing laws with Europe and, however, we are raising walls within our own borders; normative walls that tarnish the growth of businesses, with seventeen autonomous administrations sweeping each for their own home. [[Applauds]] When certain billing thresholds are reached, bureaucratic burdens multiply and say some: it is preferable not to hire one more employee so as not to have to assume those obligations and their added costs. We are faced with another new missed opportunity, as they have said before, to address the small size of Spanish companies, which have mortality and atomisation far above the European average. And the smaller size of the Spanish companies and this low productivity what it does is to waste economic recovery and business growth. Some business organisations have come to identify up to one hundred regulatory barriers to competitiveness between societies and job creation. This law has not succeeded in eliminating or simplifying these regulatory burdens or providing incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises. The problem in Spain, therefore, is not how to create companies but how to consolidate them and, above all, how to make them grow without being persecuted, punished and penalised. Experience shows, and so our entrepreneurs say, that every time you grow up, the system puts a slab on you to give up. As far as lateness is concerned, another major outstanding subject for which this law has incorporated measures of dubious effectiveness and which pose more difficulties for SMEs to be able to access European funds at a very sensitive time for them, in public terms - I am referring to lateness - and do not treat it; private companies are not the only ones who incur lateness. And, as my colleague Rubén Manso said, you will believe that with this law you will turn Spain into Silicon Valley, but nothing further from reality. Therefore, I encourage you to go out there, leave the seat for a while and encourage yourselves to create and grow, and you will have a good bath of reality. Only then will they understand that the political industry has nothing to do with the productive industry and that today official Spain maintains an infinite distance from real Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u118	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u119	Thank you very much, President. Today we have completed the process of the law on the creation and growth of enterprises, which the People's Party supported in the Commission and in plenary in Congress, we have supported in the Senate and, in the same sense, we will support today, we will repeat the devout sense, despite that sense of lost opportunity that we have left. The Government's main measure in this text was to reduce the contribution of initial capital to the formation of limited companies to one euro. This was an example that, as usual, the Government preferred the headlines to the bottom at such a critical time for our economy, in which no doubt more should have been done. Because one thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to create societies, another very different is to create businesses and another more important is to make them not only create themselves, but also have the regulatory conditions to grow and compete in an increasingly global environment. This reform could certainly have had a great impact on our economy. According to a study by Cepyme, 5.2% of GDP could grow if the average size of Spanish companies were similar to that of the countries in our environment, a similar figure in which our exports increase, which would create the negligible figure of 1.2 million jobs. But this is not going to happen, because the government has simply raised this rule as a mere procedure before Europe - associated with the Next Generation - to comply with Europe and obtain European funds, while the opportunity to make a more efficient regulation in the face of the problem of the robustness of our business fabric has been missed, which, moreover, is already a weakness in Spain's competitiveness, with lower productivity and lower wages. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Spain does not have a problem with the number of companies, it does not have a deficit in the number of companies. In fact, we are creating more companies than the European average. The problem with companies in Spain is, first, its size, which means that our companies employ 4.7 average workers, while a company in the UK employs 9 workers or 12 workers in Germany. The smaller size of companies also means that we have a lower average turnover, EUR 1.1 million compared to the EUR 14 million average in the European Union, and that we are less competitive, with an average income per worker of 11% lower than the other European countries. The second major problem, and also fatal to our companies, is that of the high mortality of these companies. While the average life of a company in Europe is twenty years, in Spain it is only eleven years old and that big slab means that, after three years, 50% of the companies we generate are destroyed. And that is why, and not for anything else, we in the People's Party believed that this was an essential reform for our economy and that, therefore, we are making a big mistake today, as the Government has made, by lacking ambition and by being left with a text that could have meant much more. On the part of the Group of the European People's Party, we have been reaching out to the Government since the first minute to improve the initial text. I sincerely believe that this has been done, that we have achieved it, but that there is no doubt that this is not the project that the People's Party has put forward from a government of our political formation, because we believe that facilitating the conditions of growth in companies carries fewer bureaucratic burdens, means removing large barriers that SMEs have to grow or correct those regulatory and fiscal thresholds that penalise SMEs when they grow up, extend the use of responsible declarations and deepen market unity. We have tabled more than thirty amendments in this procedure, of which I would like to highlight the one adopted to limit the personal property liability of entrepreneurs; a measure which will undoubtedly provide legal certainty and which will lead entrepreneurs to carry out their work with greater guarantees. Or that amendment 50, which Mr Bel has well explained today, to which I thank him for his support. But, on the other hand, we have the Government, which did not want to hear about some of our proposals, such as, for example, that amendment which meant that the self-employed should automatically deduct maintenance costs from the IRPF, an amendment which the Government has vetoed and made it impossible for us to debate or vote on it in this House today. As no reform has been accepted of which we propose to improve the financing of SMEs through the creation of sustainable investment figures with fiscal support. It will not be because the government has no margin, after that 22 billion euros of extra collection until July, thanks to inflation. [[Applauds]] Although, of course, putting any fiscal stimulus policy at the expense of the PSOE is in conflict with the policy that they are following from making cash at the expense of inflation, increasing collection, even at the expense of impoverishing families; an inflation that, by the way, is also killing thousands of SMEs, which are bearing on their profit account much of the increase in prices so as not to transfer them to consumers, and, all that, without receiving a single aid from the Government. These are our amendments. It was said by the spokesman of Podemos that we defend the large customer networks of the companies. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the only customer networks we have known today, which the Supreme Court has confirmed, are the ones that the PSOE had in my land, in Andalusia, to dodge a corrupt system in the service of the Socialist Party. These are the only customer networks known in Spain. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I said that, in the opinion of the People's Party, this is not a project that remains, although, in our view, it does not add up what it should, but in the situation in which we find ourselves the cost of the government's inaction is too high. So soon, this month, in September, 19,000 self-employed people and SMEs have had to throw out the blind, and that is a real drama that is not cut short by the government. [[shows a cover of the ABC newspaper]] I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that drama will stop only on the day Pedro Sánchez leaves the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u120	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u121	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the bill known as "creates and grows" returns to this House; a law that represents a great step within the current will of this Government to transform our productive fabric, making it more dynamic, more effective and stronger. And it is that no one escapes that, in our country, an entrepreneur, until recently, when setting up a project or developing an idea, in short, creating and growing, was measured by a multitude of obstacles, especially when we talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, and those obstacles are precisely those that try to overcome this law. How? By encouraging the expansion and growth of companies, through regulatory improvement, speeding up procedures and expanding the catalogue of licensed activities; also by enhancing alternative financing instruments to bank credit for companies, such as crowdfunding, collective investment and venture capital, and by also promoting measures to facilitate the creation of companies, with the possibility of creating a limited liability company with 1 euro, eliminating the legal minimum of 3000 euros, as is already the case in many of the countries in our environment. Another aspect of special relevance that is contemplated in this law is that it promotes the telematic formation of enterprises through the single window of the Information and Network Centre for the Creation of Enterprises, and the deadlines for creating a business and the notarial and registrar costs are reduced. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that the procedures are so cumbersome that they discourage or frustrate ideas and initiative, because we would be giving up talent, entrepreneurial development and, therefore, the creation of jobs and wealth. But if there is something that any company is afraid of, beyond the range of procedures and deadlines, it is to the lateness, which is a serious economic problem, one of the causes that has the most impact on the liquidity and profitability of our companies and that, in addition, it most harms SMEs, causing an imbalance of power between small and large companies. Small ones don't take the risk because they can't take it directly. In order to combat late payment in commercial transactions, this rule also includes specific measures related to the use of electronic invoices in all business-to-business relations, thus ensuring greater traceability and payment control. This represents an advance in the digitisation of companies that will allow for reliable, systemic and agile information of the actual payment deadlines, requirements to reduce commercial lateness. In addition, companies that do not meet the statutory payment deadlines will not have access to public subsidies, including those in the recovery plan. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has suffered over the past few years from a barrage that no one could have in its imagination: a pandemic, a volcanic eruption and, lastly, a tragic war that is having very serious consequences on the global economy and which, moreover, directly suffers the citizenry in its pocket. This government could lament and hide behind unpredictable circumstances, make this crisis pay for it once again by the working middle class, as did the People's Party government in the financial crisis. The truth is, however, that he has done quite the opposite. From the minute one has done it is to work, work and work, not only in our country, by adopting rules so that citizens can see the slightest impact possible, but also in Europe so that, learning from the mistakes of the past, the management of this crisis will not again represent an economic and social setback and also in rights, as you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have done. We continue to bet on a modern, advanced and transformative country that, despite the difficulties, does not forget to legislate to have a more just society. When I talk about social justice, of course, it includes the workers of this country, but also the business community, but, yes, it does, by further protecting that business community that makes real sacrifices to get ahead and generate opportunities, and by asking for sacrifices from those who use a crisis, such as the war in Ukraine, to get rich. [[Applauds]] And we do all this without the support of the right in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, when you take these decisions alone, there is no need to go into disqualification or victimism, as you usually do. Fortunately, this law is an exception and for this reason my parliamentary group thanked the broad support that this law has already had and the contributions of all parliamentary groups, both here and in the Senate, and they will also allow me to thank the colleagues of my parliamentary group who have participated in the paper, Pedro, José Luis and Valentín. With regard to the amendments, which we are voting on today, it is not, in some cases, because we consider them to be harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises; in other cases, because there is already a rule on this, and in others, because we understand that they can create legal uncertainty, but the truth is that these are very few. We also share some concern with Esquerra Republicana, for example, because we are aware of the need to regulate and improve within the framework of other regulations such as, for example, the Public Sector Contracts Act, and continue to work on combating late payment and extending deadlines for, above all, subcontracts that are SMEs and autonomous. I thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, for the tone shown in this text. How good it is to find them in consensus and dialogue, and to show that we can reach agreements! How good and how strange, the truth! Because, despite this new leadership that you are looking at, you are not too accustomed to my parliamentary group, at least in this House, to support and dialogue, even though you then complain that we do not call you and when we do, we do not get the phone. I'd like, honestly, for you to be the tonic of your party. I'm done, President. In short, we are adopting a standard here today so that people with entrepreneurship, as the text says, have better conditions to create and grow. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u122	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u123	We continue with the point concerning the request made by the Republican, Plural and Euskal groups, Herría Bildu, for the creation of a commission of inquiry on the alleged interference by Spanish political leaders with the sovereignty of the Principality of Andorra, as well as by para-police actors within the framework of the so-called Operation Catalonia. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment to this initiative. In order to defend the request for the establishment of the commission of inquiry, Mrs Vallugera Balañà intervenes by the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u124	Thank you, President. Members, Members, last point of the plenary, but not at all the least important. Let me make a preview, and it is telling you that as this intervention is going to be full of assumptions, assumptions and parallel expressions, if I leave it at any time, be so kind as to put it on you, because otherwise, it is going to be basically talking about supposed, of course, we don't know or at best. But there is one thing - and now I come in now - that is neither supposed nor presumed, and this little detail is that an Andorran judge has accused former President Rajoy, former ministers Montoro and Fernández Díaz, and other senior officials at the time of the PP governments and has asked - that that is already good faith and necessary - the help of the Spanish justice to locate Rajoy. Let's hope he put Mariano Rajoy, because since he put M. Rajoy, they don't find him anyway. [[Applauds]] The idea is they're investigating half a dozen crimes, which isn't bad at all. The question is, is this a sub-Judice matter? Is this a matter that Congress should not enter into? Is this only material for criminal purposes and are we going to be repeating, in the event that they approve the Commission, that we cannot investigate because there is a judge or that the rogatory commission has not yet been carried out? Is that gonna be it? I say this because, if that happens, it will turn out that the control of the Executive is not carried out by Congress, which you say is the depositary of national sovereignty, but that it must necessarily be done by the inaction of parliamentarians and political groups in the judicial seat, and this, for your supposed democracy, is a real shame. Let me also ask if you think this is normal. Do you think it is normal for former presidents and former ministers of one State to appear before the judge of another State because they have not repaired in ways to persecute Catalan independenceists? We already know it and we have been suffering persecution, repression, infiltration, spies for years, as if it were a bad television movie, but it is that normal people, people living in normal countries where the meaning of the principle of legality, where the meaning of separation of powers, where the meaning of the rule of law have some meaning are not able to understand that in a neighbouring State the cloacas of that State dirty their waters. It's very hard to understand. And there we are. It will turn out that we have made the 2017 Commission, the Kitchen, whose opinion you all know, and now we are in Operation Catalonia. How many times have we denounced him! How many times!How many times are we going to have to explain the independenceists and some other dissidents that the reason for their state always goes beyond the fundamental rights of some of their citizens? And what's the reason? Do you know what the reason is? [[Applauds]] For there are deep structures in this state, that there are deep structures that still - because a transition has not been made; in fact, the one they call a model was not a transition - bring cause of the dictatorship and still in its imaginary the corollary is: one, great and free. And that is where the real evil of this state, which is not democratic, that you do not believe in freedom of expression, freedom of opinion and fundamental rights; that just as you say it for them, you say it to the end. And if we are to violate borders, we are to do so; and if we are to pressure bankers, we are to do it - woe, pardon, exercise supposed pressure on bankers - and if we are to question - forgiveness, exercise supposed coercion - and if we are to falsify - forgiveness, make supposed falsifications - we are to do it, because the reason for the state is first and foremost. [[The Lord]] Well, I'll tell you what. I hope that the establishment of this Commission will be approved; I also hope that it will have an effect for once; I hope that it will not be like the law on reserved expenditure, which is useless; I hope that, finally, the Official Secrets Act will be adopted with a period of declassification that serves something, and I hope that all the shame of lack of democracy, lack of transparency, lack of legitimacy, lack of sense of State with a real separation of powers will be put on the table because that is one of the major causes for which we are independent. They are chasing us, spying on us, sending agents to all parts of the world, but sooner or later it will be recognized that in this unequal struggle it is the independence of all countries that we are now subject to the Spanish State which is right, which defends democracy, which defends transparency, which defends a free and just society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u125	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that on this agenda item we are dealing with the creation of this Committee of Inquiry which is going to deal with the issue of the so-called Operation Catalonia. We are proponents of the Commission and therefore believe that it is more necessary than ever, but allow me these minutes to put into context what this situation is all about. The reality is that those responsible for the Banca Privada d'Andorra already denounced the pressures they had suffered to obtain information about depositors. And beyond these pressures and complaints, the truth is that even Andorran jurisdiction has accepted that it must start an investigation that will also impute to the so-called patriotic police, but after Mr Villarejo's statements, also to the political leaders of the time. To investigate this issue is clear that it concerns Catalonia and all that has been the so-called process and all the management that was made of that period. But in essence, addressing this issue involves addressing a question of democratic quality, a question of transparency. As noted above, a Commission of Inquiry on Operation Kitchen was established, which ultimately demonstrated that the way in which this State operates is that the political party in the Government has a whole range of tools to combat its political opponents. Well, I believe that, frankly, the rest of the groups would have to join the constitution of this Commission, first of all, because of the seriousness of the events that have taken place and those that have transcended and that they certainly deserve to be able to investigate them with complete freedom and without any limitation. And secondly, because of the characteristic or the notes of democratic lowness, of the lack of transparency that these facts imply. That a State of the European Union even invades territory beyond its jurisdiction and does acts that are not protected by law, even beyond its borders, certainly does not leave this State in a good place, both for the actions done by this patriotic police and by the political leaders who ordered it, and above all for the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms it grants its citizens. We are faced with clear and well-known suspicions of a genuine violation of fundamental rights, privacy and action, totally negligent by the public authorities. We are therefore faced with the opportunity to take advantage of and create a committee that will go to the bottom of these issues or look elsewhere. It is necessary that - not as happened at that time, because in the end this happened to the leadership of a political party, but no one noticed - today let us not look elsewhere and approach the creation of this Commission in order to get to the bottom of this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u127	Thank you. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u128	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the independence groups are presenting the initiative to set up a commission of inquiry specifically on the interference by the Spanish Government and the patriotic police in the sovereignty of a third State, of a sovereign State such as Andorra. As you know, these very serious events took place during the years of Operation Catalonia for the purpose of political persecution against a certain democratic, peaceful and legitimate ideology, such as independence. I will not now enter into the description of the facts, I think it is not the time; we trust that everything will come to light. What I do want to say is that they now have the status of accused by the Andorran justice the former President, Mr Mariano Rajoy, and the former Ministers of Finance, Mr Montoro, and of Interior, Mr Fernández Díaz, for a crime of falsity in documents; in particular, for sending false information to the FinCEN of the American Treasury to destroy a bank that had not yielded to his blackmail and had refused to provide supposed accounts of independent political leaders. Mr. Mariano Rajoy and the former Minister, Mr. Montoro, are also charged with an offence against the constitutional bodies, one of the most serious of the Andorran Criminal Code - punishable by up to ten years' imprisonment - for threats and intimidation to the head of the Andorran Government and ministers, in the context of an official visit to the Principality of Andorra in 2015. Finally, Mr Fernández Díaz and his subordinates, Mr Francisco Martínez, Mr Ignacio Cosidó - former Director General of the Police -, the DAO Eugenio Pino and agents Marcelino Martín-Blas, Bonifacio Díaz and Celestino Barroso - are accused of this last aggregate of Interior in the Embassy of Spain in Andorra and protected by diplomatic immunity still maintained by the Spanish Government -. This police dome is accused of coercion, threats and extortion. These actions are very serious. The Principality of Andorra is a sovereign State, a rule of law, with an exemplary independent judiciary, with courageous judges who must face enormous pressures from the Spanish State. The Kingdom of Spain has acted with intimidation, blackmail, extortion, threats and coercion, not only by its diplomatic agents and police, but also by the President of the Government himself, his ministers and senior government officials. And even worse, this activity was carried out not only against bank owners and managers, but also against the Andorran Government itself. We wonder: is delinquency part of the diplomacy of a democratic state? Is it normal for a government president and his ministers to threaten the sovereignty of a State on an official visit in Spain's foreign action? Are we aware of the seriousness of the accusations, of everything involved and of the inertias in the current Spanish Government? Faced with this cascade of questions, the proponents want to know the truth of the Spanish State's involvement in Andorra, everywhere and at all times, in the ideological persecution of independence. For this reason, we will have to accept a lesser evil: blackmail in the form of an amendment by the Socialist Party. We want this Commission, but we note that we are not going to let this Commission be used only to generate news against the People's Party. The PSOE is not alien to the operations of the State against Catalonia. His governments have been in the garlic of Operation Catalonia, and sooner or later he will also have to respond. If the PSOE thinks it's not going to get splashed, he's wrong. We are going to make sure that the whole truth is known, because the truth knows neither of the PP's mandates nor of the PSOE's mandates. The only truth is that the ideological repression of the State against independence, the cloacas of the State, are common heritage of all the governments of Spain, having the color, whether of the PP, or of the PSOE. As the investigating judge of the case in Andorra says, Estefanía García García...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u129	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u130	I'm done, President. As the investigating judge of the case in Andorra, Estefanía García García, says, what is at stake is the truth. Sprinkle, a beautiful verb that can be translated by finding out or clarifying the truth, the whole truth, has happened under a mandate from the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u131	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u132	...happened under a mandate from the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u134	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Look, the state sewer has played an active role in the state security forces and bodies, I don't think anyone's surprised. It's not new. Moreover, Mr. Villarejo often repeats with insistence that he called to return to the National Police to do the things that Minister Corcuera has been doing in recent decades, which he had been doing since the year 93 doing those tasks outside the law or against it. And in those years, with different governments, he was meddling, he was being decorated. It was lined up in those years and it had numerous recognitions; I mean, with different governments. It is also evidence that during Mr. Rajoy's government the so-called patriotic police, which was nothing other than the institutionalization of that cloaca de Interior, of that cloaca de Estado, acted against all the opponents of the People's Party, whether ad intra, like Mr. Bárcenas, whether ad extra, against the Lords of the United We can or against all Catalan independence. Total war. It was worth everything, outside and within the law, there were no limits. That's already been tested. What's going on right now? That these practices of pirates, of mobsters, even carried them out - it seems to indicate everything - against another sovereign government, such as that of Andorra, and did not spare a list of crimes, which has already been mentioned before, in order to try to intimidate and coerce the authorities, in this case, of a neighbouring State; a fact which I believe everyone in this House should be concerned about and that it should be in favour of clarification of what happened, who were responsible and, above all, that it should not occur again. In this legislature we have already had a commission of inquiry into Operation Kitchen, in which, apart from Operation Kitchen, many cases of these mafia practices have been dealt with and have emerged from this group of public officials. In fact, Mr Pagès had already appointed the Andorran case on numerous occasions. I asked him: Josep, why do you bring this matter up so many times? And he already saw that this case, the Andorra case, could have consequences like the ones he is having right now. We now have on the table an amendment from the Socialist Party, some of which we have heard from the press. When we asked the Socialist Party whether they were going to accept the constitution of this Commission, they told us that they were studying, and now we had to find out from the press that they were going to accept it with some changes. One of them was to extend such investigations not only to the case of Andorra, but to other acts of mafia practices. I believe that everything that has happened and all the political responsibilities that have arisen are positive. A date is set, a period, the governments of the People's Party. I believe that in the Commission of Inquiry it will already be clear if it has had consequences later, because one of the facts and one of the conclusions drawn from Operation Kitchen was that those practices did not start ex novo, did not start with Operation Kitchen, they already had a past of even decades - in Catalonia, in Euskal Herria - and they went against all those who appeared as opponents of the State. The curious thing is that these people - some with golden destinies, with pensions, with medals - remained in the state's security forces and bodies. The conclusions of the previous commissions have shown that there is a problem with the management of the reserved funds. So what? It hasn't changed much. Are we gonna change that law on reserved funds? Are we gonna change how those police medals are awarded? And what about the law of secrets, a little low, at least. There are issues that can be dealt with in order to try to change legislation, to make legislative decisions so that situations such as those that have been experienced and carried out by this police sewer cannot be re-produced, because, unfortunately, today the conditions are exactly the same. It could be the same, exactly the same. It is true, the People's Party is not in the government, but imagine that there would be some misunderstanding or personal interest who decided to use public officials and funds reserved for some reason, for particular interests against legality, as we said before, or by skipping it. Could it happen? Could it be happening right now? The truth is, I do. So, as I say, it's important to know what happened. Everything? Truly, yes. In a moment?, they say from the People's Party. Sounds good to me. That's where the patriotic police came up, but they didn't enter the National Police to be officials with the People's Party, they were already coming from before, and some of them are still agents of authority right now. Therefore, no problem and, moreover, I believe it is beneficial for a society. It is democratic to know what has happened, how it happened, what political leaders he had, but, above all, to come to conclusions that would allow legislative measures or other initiatives to be taken to prevent this from happening again. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u136	Thank you very much, President. As has already been said, we are discussing the request of the Republican, Plural and Bildu parliamentary groups for the creation of a commission of inquiry concerning the action of a parallel police structure created under the mandate of the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Fernández Díaz, and aimed at the persecution of political opponents, among others to a sector of sovereign ideology in Catalonia, arriving in its irregular actions to cross the borders of the State, according to the reported blackmail to the owners of Banca Privada de Andorra and its branch in Spain, the Banco de Madrid, currently under judicice in the justice of Andorra along with other criminal types and being investigated, among others, as has already been said, former President Mariano Rajoy, former Minister of the Interior Mr Fernández Díaz, former Minister of Finance Mr Cristóbal Montoro, former Secretary of State for Security Mr Martínez, former Director of the Police Mr Cosidó, ex-DAO, Deputy Director of the Police, Mr Pinobaro's office, and the Directorate of Police. As your honourable Members can presume and have already indicated, this Committee of Inquiry which is intended to give continuity to two more cases in this House: one during the XII Legislature, on the so-called patriotic police, and which culminated in conclusions adopted at the plenary session held in this House on 21 September 2017, and the other in this XIV Legislature, on the Kitchen case, which is largely instrumentalized by that same police structure created fraudulently and called, as we said, patriotic police, whose conclusions approved this House at a plenary session on 13 February of the same year. We are now being proposed another commission of inquiry into the actions of that same patriotic police created under the mandate of Mr Fernández Díaz, with the instructions of Mr Cosidó, at the time Director of Police, with the knowledge and consent of the minister, by operational order of the DAO Mr Pino, for the persecution of political opponents, among others Catalan independence nationalism, as concluded by this House in September 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, it might be thought that these facts are already being investigated by this House and that this new Committee of Inquiry should not therefore be set up. In recent months, however, we have had knowledge of audios requested from Mr Villarejo, which show that they were denied by political leaders of the Ministry of the Interior and the People's Party, and by members of the patriotic police in their various appearances in the sessions of the commissions of inquiry; audios which show that from the Ministry of the Interior, led by Mr Fernández Díaz, the operations of the patriotic police were coordinated to falsely denounce cases of corruption that could affect Catalan independenceist leaders; that it is coordinated from the Ministry of the Interior to different police and judicial stations; that blackmail was allegedly practised to an Andorran bank to provide information on Catalan independenceist politicians. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, audios that put insolfa that the Ministry of the Interior, led by Mr Fernández Díaz, did not personally direct the one known as Operation Catalonia, in command with Mr Villarejo, the patriotic police and their police chiefs. For all this, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finalizing, Madam President - we consider it appropriate to agree on the creation of a commission of inquiry on which the audios of corruption have also been called. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u138	Thank you, Madam President. How you like the commissions of inquiry, except those that aim to investigate you, your chanchullos and those of your friends and partners. They come here to ask for a commission of inquiry for the alleged interferences of Spain or of the Spanish authorities in Andorra, but when a commission of inquiry for the follow-up of the mossos is requested in Parliament, to set an example, then they no longer like the commissions of inquiry. Isn't that right? That they didn't like? Because they voted against it. [[Mrs. Vallugera Balañà makes negative signs]] Don't tell me you don't, that's right. When it comes to investigating the corruption of independenceist politicians, when it comes to investigating the connections of independence, for example, with Putin's Russia, recognized by you, by Mr Rufián, then the commissions of inquiry and transparency, no, then you no longer like them. When the judges of Spain, a State of the European Union, initiate an investigation, charge or convict for crimes of corruption, embezzlement or even terrorism, because of everything in the parties that propose this motion, then the somfascist judges or are corrupt, but when a judge of the Principality of Andorra admits a complaint, then the entire Spanish rule of law is in question. You come to give lessons; you, who are the representative of a party that struck democracy, who has its condemned, firmly condemned leader, you come to give rule of law lessons? Man, please! The supposed cloacas of the state are the worst for you, but the cloacas of your parties and their governments seem to you to be a paradise for democracy. It is also curious that the biggest representative of these sewers that you denounce now is for TV3, the sectarian television that we pay all Catalans and that insults more than half, an idol, Mr Villarejo is a TV3 idol, has audience and presence guaranteed. Finally, this Commission, like all that you propose, the only thing that aims to create problems for Spain, because the more problems Spain has, you will be better, and moreover, if you succeed in hindering and contaminating the judicial processes that still affect today who was another model to follow, Mr Pujol, trying to show that all the evidence against you was obtained unlawfully, which you achieve. And, then, it seems to you that it seems good that you could take the money stolen from the Catalans to Andorra in garbage bags, hiding it there with impunity, because the banks are evil for the signatories of this motion, except those of Andorra. Careful, those are the ones who started this lawsuit. It is curious, because this Commission seems requested by Villarejo, by Pujol and by the Andorran private bank, but it is that they are Esquerra, Bildu and Junts per Catalunya defending Villarejo, Pujol and the private bank. Junts per Catalunya can be understood, especially because of the background and because you were founders, but what is a little more shocking is that of Bildu and Esquerra. Or not, who knows... Finally, everyone knows what this is about, to discredit and attack our country for those who get a benefit from it. You don't care about the investigation for corruption, because when it affects you then there's nothing to investigate; what matters to you is to damage the image of Spain. There is a judicial investigation in Andorra in which a complaint has been admitted at the moment. Well, Andorra's justice must investigate, and if there is any crime under Andorran law, it must be prosecuted and sentenced, as the Spanish does with its leaders, as well as condemn or absolve anyone, and no matter who it is, but that the parties most hostile to the Spanish, which historically in addition some of them have supported terrorism or have recently led a coup against democracy for which their leaders have been condemned, come to make the adales of transparency is unacceptable to us. This is obvious. What I do not think is obvious is that the Socialist Party should also join in this, but it already seems that the Socialist Party gives absolutely everything so as to extend its stay a few months longer and they can ally themselves with whomever they may be. This is really serious, that this Commission - which we already know what its aim is, is not to pursue any kind of corruption, but to defile the image of our country - has the enthusiastic support of the party that governs Spain, but also that the condition is not to be investigated when I arrive, because, of course, something that I do not like will not come out. It is truly repugnant - and I have to say so -, repugnant what the PSOE is doing in Spain as far as its pacts with the independenceists are concerned. You are subject to constant humiliation, which would not really matter more if it were because you, who are in government, are also humiliating Spain, our country, everyone, your voters and all the voters of the parties in this House, which is - and you know it too - what those people and representatives want. Not long ago, the same groups were also asking for a commission of inquiry into the Pegasus case affecting their Government. They were asking to investigate what happened and what you've done. They did it with the same intention. They had no intention of seeking transparency, they did so to harm Spain and its institutions. My group, of course, did not cooperate then and does not intend to collaborate now with those who want to weaken Spain even further because of the mere fact of trying to defend themselves against those who are trying to destroy it. You are capable of everything and have the shame to tell Esquerra, Bildu and Junts per Cat that yes, let's investigate, but until the PSOE arrives, and whatever happens next we'll fix it in an office and then, that's a year left. One day, I suppose that when Mr Sánchez is no longer in the General Secretary of the Socialist Party or in the Presidency of the Government, someone in the PSOE will have no choice but to acknowledge that in this parliamentary term the PSOE did everything they asked to weaken Spain thinking that they would make their party stronger, without understanding that precisely what they have achieved is that the Socialist Party ceases to be regarded by the majority of Spaniards as a state party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u140	President, ladies and gentlemen, in my last speech I spoke about the dystopia about how the last few years would have been with a People's Party government with VOX. In this, which we talk about corruption, I want to move from science fiction to raw reality. How have these years been with the corruption of the People's Party? The last chapter we're talking about is part of a series of seasons. There's too many, too many. Season 1. The Gürtel. There we discovered how the People's Party operated as a criminal organization that had been illegally financed since its founding systematically and continuously rigged contracts with bites. We also saw how he was running for election by cheating, in an adopted way, to alter the results in the ballot boxes. How the booty was divided with envelopes, with bonuses among its members. We also saw the police recording the headquarters of Genoa, a headquarters paid with black money. It is the time of the rotating doors, of the three hundred accused or condemned for corruption. It is the time of the 15M going out on the street to denounce that you plundered the public arks while cutting rights and telling people that you had to tighten your belt because there was no money. Of course there was money! It was in his accounts in Switzerland, it was in his box B, it was in his pockets. [[Applauds]] Season 2. They spent the whole season trying to cover everything they had done in the previous one. The Kitchen, the coercion, the kidnapping of Barcenes, the beating of computers, the destruction of evidence, the espionage, the follow-up, the purchase of silences and the whole goes to prevent those plots from being investigated. They were even the legislator legislating from the bench of defendants with the so-called Berlusconi law, a final point law to try to folder their corruption cases. Season 3. There happened something surprising, we saw them spying on each other: the 'gestapillo' of Esperanza Aguirre, the espionage to Ignacio González, the matter of Cifuentes creams, the case of espionage by the masks of Ayuso's brother... Who needs enemies having partners in the People's Party like this, right, ladies and gentlemen? There are also chapters of the corruption of the state apparatuses to maneuver and remove uncomfortable judges, police and prosecutors and try to put their own: García Castellón, who went out in the judicial puncture in a case of corruption of his party; Mr. Hurtado, who put him in the Second Chamber of the Supreme to file his cases of corruption. He was the only one who opposed the Gürtel and avoided the prison of the woman of Bárcenas, and that which had been sentenced to fourteen years; it was about trying to keep the exchequer from pulling out of the blanket. That's the time of 'Luis, be strong, we do what we can', of President Rajoy; 'the prosecution tunes it to you', of the Minister of the Interior, or the famous message of Cosidó, his senator, about the control of the judicial dome behind. Finally, we arrived at this season: the war against their opponents, the dirty war, the operation Catalonia, Villarejo untied, the PISA report, the falsification of public documents, blackmail, threats, coercion, false complaints and a long time. Mr. Iñarritu has previously compared you to the Mafia. Mr. Iñarritu, there is a difference, they operate from the structures of the State with resources, with officials, with public money, with the forces and security forces of the State, with the patriotic police. They also use the media cloacas to try to prevent the constitution of democratic governments, to pursue leaders of our party and independence parties, especially the Catalan. Many lines have been crossed in that war, but they have also crossed borders, even extorted to foreign banks; that is why Mr Rajoy and other former ministers will have to sit on the bench. Let us hope that they will appear, that they will not become fugitives from justice. Let us also hope that this time there will be more luck than there was with M. Rajoy and let us know who the Barbas is. In this last season we have heard Villarejo's audios: 'El Barbas wants to know everything', 'La libreta de Bárcenas you have to stop it', 'I have proof that you are all in this movement', 'I have a theme of the hostile against Podemos', 'I have asked Rajoy that the CNI does not give me the cognac', 'I will deny, even under torture, that this meeting has existed'. This was said by a minister and, indeed, he denied it here in Parliament. He's probably committed a felony of false testimony. Epilogue. We have heard the spokesman for Citizens talking about the coup against the democracy of the independenceists, but he does not say anything about a real coup against the democracy of which they are accomplices, the coup that is now taking place with the kidnapping of the government of the judges. The People's Party does not accept the rules of the game, except if they serve it to access or remain in power; when it loses it, it breaks it and any government that does not occupy it considers it illegitimate, as its partner in the United States, Trump. That is why they will entangle themselves in the government of the judges and disobey the mandate of the ballot boxes, in a coup to democracy without blood, indeed, without bayonets, but a coup to subvert order in the most serious institutional crisis since 23 F. Ladies and gentlemen, four seasons of corruption and an epilogue of collapse of the democratic system with that blockade and those shameful phrases that we have heard. It seems that you work on the salary of the writers of the future, as we have seen these days. By the way, what a shame it has to be a streaming platform that pulls the dirty rags out of the monarchy and not this parliamentary seat, which is the one that should investigate them! [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, corruption is part of their DNA and that is why Mr Feijóo is sending it today. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what this is all about? What is the difference between you and us? That we threw Rajoy out for corruption and you threw Married out for investigating it. [[Applauds]] If they really wanted to move on to corruption, they would do like the Catalan right: dissolve and refound a new party. I ended up with a warning. Mr Pagès has made a warning to the PSOE and I make it to them: that this Commission does not serve to cover the corruption plots of the Catalan right, because they have existed: the Palau case, 3%, the Pujol case... We are in many of these cases as a charge, because corruption does not depend on flags...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u141	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u142	...and those plots are not an invention of the State, those plots existed. That is why it is important, it is a democratic requirement to investigate them, also to investigate what has happened to the State cloacas led by the People's Party. We need transparency and light and stenographers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u143	Thank you, Mr. Asens. Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u144	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Here we are again: the government electing Barabbas. There are 379 unsolved ETA attacks. This is about 50% of the murders of the bloodthirsty Etraras; among them, the one that cost the civilian guards Diego Salvá, the son of my colleague Antonio Salvá, and Carlos Sáenz de Tejada, in Mallorca, in 2009. Unsolved crimes. That does deserve a commission of inquiry. [[Applauds]] Until a few years ago, they were gunshots to the back of the head, car bombs, kidnappings and extortion. Today extortion remains part of his modus operandi. The method of extortion is recorded by the comrades of these assassins on fire in this House, because Bildu here, in the seat of national sovereignty, together with independenceists, separatists and coupsmen, uses a perfect machine of extortion consented to the Government that arrives to this day with this new proposal, with this new initiative, and brings it, among other forms, a screen of hatred to Spain, the party whose spokesman was sentenced to prison for the exaltation of terrorism when she was editor of the protera newspaper Eguin. But Bildu is not the only party that makes this request for the creation of a Commission of Inquiry. This initiative also brings her Republican Left with several of her leaders condemned by the Supreme Court and, therefore, imprisoned for a coup d'état in the illegal referendum of October 1, 2017, the party that governs a coalition executive with Junts, presiding over a government in Catalonia that is a government in rebellion, refusing to abide by court sentences. [[applause]] And this initiative is also signed by Esquerra's partners in the Catalan government: the party of Laura Borrás, accused of prevarication, fraud, misappropriation of public revenues and documentary falsity. Frankly, this would be enough to put an end to this debate and to announce that we refuse to support this proposal because of the lack of moral legitimacy of its proponents. [[Applauds]] That's why and because this is another one of his letters, of his Machiavellian game of stone, throw and disarm the State and attack and discredit the forces and security forces of the State using the institutions. But since the misconceptions are numerous and act as an aggravating factor, we will continue to derail more folly to support our refusal. ETA has not said the places where they hide hundreds of weapons and with a lot of explosives. That does deserve a commission of inquiry. [[Applauds]] Cases of abuse of the girl wards in Baleares, Valencia and Las Palmas, abused under the institutional guardianship of the Socialist Party, Podemos and Compromís. This is juvenile corruption. That does deserve a commission of inquiry. [[Applauds]] The network is spying on children in Catalan school recesses to find out what language they speak. That does deserve a commission of inquiry. [[Applauds]] And you know what a commission of inquiry deserves? The heinous strategy of the Minister of the Interior to bring terrorist prisoners closer to Basque prisons, authorizing in these years up to 345 transfers in favor of two hundred years that killed almost three hundred people. As I say, that does deserve a commission of inquiry. [[Applauds]] And when the government gave up prisoners for budgets, when the government is able to discredit the National Intelligence Corps, we, the VOX Parliamentary Group, would like to know in exchange what the support of the Socialist Group, which, through an amendment, is already positioned to support this Commission of Inquiry, because we already know that this government is only being blackmailed by terrorists, independenceists, separatists and coups. Today, with this request from the Commission of Inquiry and its defence for those parties that embody hatred of everything that sounds Spanish, we are witnessing a real deterioration of politics and institutional destabilization that we have come to repair in VOX. To finish, two messages. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you should seriously consider whether the best thing you can do is get out of the way. Their lack of legitimacy and their own dirty rags have left them at zero in their own request for the Commission of Inquiry. Overcome failure, you have devoured yourselves. And ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, stop arming those who want to destroy our homeland, stop turning themselves in to the enemies of Spain, stop being the necessary co-operators of terrorists and coups to break Spain, stop choosing Barabbas. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez. Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u146	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I have already told you that the People's Parliamentary Group will not fall into the trap of answering either the insults or the instigations or disqualifications we have heard, because we come to Congress to build and not to collapse. [[Applauds]] That's what you guys are for, the truth is you're doing quite well. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not want to use the turn against because we want it to be clear that in the PP we will always be willing to accept any proposal that seeks to improve the democratic quality of our country. Anyone. Such is the case that if you really sought to detect, if there have been, anomalous functioning in the functioning of State security, our group would raise no objection. But if it is about using this House as if it were an emergency court to try to delegitimize the main opposition party by using the commissions of inquiry as a firing squad, then I have to tell you that you will not find us and that we will not be there. [[Applauds]] One question: Why are your proposals always limited to analyzing the stages in which the People's Party has been at the forefront of State security? Why are they not courageous and also propose to analyze those stages in which it was others who were at the head of the Ministry of the Interior? What's more, why don't they stop acting cowardly and ask that we also investigate what happens in the interior councils that govern the Generalitat of Catalonia? Why don't you dare? Is it not that what you are looking for is not to improve the quality of our democracy, but to put forward a witch hunt and a massive trial against the People's Party to obtain an electoral revenue that its disastrous management is causing you to lose? Isn't that it? Ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that Mr Villarejo in the Kitchen Commission said something like this: For a mother and for the motherland, rightly or without her. This expressed a way of understanding the State in which the end justifies the means. And I wonder: And what difference is there between Mr. Villarejo and you? Or is it that you do not apply the maximum of: For independence, rightly or without it, when you call illegal referendums? Or do you not apply the maximum of: For independence, rightly or without it, when you prevent the enforcement of judicial decisions such as that which obliges 25 % of the classes to be taught in Spanish? What do you answer when asked what differentiates you from Villarejo, when politicians, members of Catalan civil society, non-affiliated journalists, intellectuals and non-independence Catalans have been followed and persecuted in Catalonia? What do they answer? For the homeland, rightly or without it, as Villarejo. [[Applauds]] Do you also remember that Mr Villarejo and García Castaño agreed in the Kitchen Commission and said that the Mossos bought a system similar to Pegasus to spy on their political opponents? Do you remember? Because this issue continues to be present at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, for illegal monitoring and listening. What was it, for reasons of country and independence, rightly or without it, proposers? Be brave for once, surprise us and include this issue in the Commission's agenda. I am convinced that they will not, and they will not, because you are the same as Villarejo: you prefer to defend your ideas through shortcuts and imposition rather than defend them by following the democratic channels that allow Spanish democracy and the Spanish Constitution. That is not enough for you and, as always: for the country and for independence, rightly or without it. Let me remind you of what the prosecution was saying in connection with the Pujol case. He said that they had hidden at least a huge amount of money in Andorra from the favour of certain entrepreneurs since 1991 so that they could be successful candidates for various public tenders from the Catalan public administration. Will your proposal not have to do more with covering this issue than with anything else? Why do they not propose the creation of a committee of inquiry in this House to examine this issue? Is that right or wrong enough for them to justify the unjustifiable with Mr. Pujol, as they do with Mrs. Borràs? Is that enough? Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Socialist Party is concerned, it is a bad day. Bad day you have today, bad day to ask for explanations when the Socialist Party should come up here today to give explanations and to ask for forgiveness for what has happened to the EREs and above all for the pardon you are processing for the most honest of all the corrupt - paradoxes of life -, it will not be that it leaves the tongue and puts you in an uncomfortable situation. [[applause]] Socialists, your amendment is a statement of intent, a desperate attempt to delegitimise the main opposition party, which speaks in parallel with the negative evolution of its electoral expectations reflected in the polls. Why do they not accept our proposal and we sit down and analyze everything that has happened in the security of the State since Spain is a democracy? Are you afraid to acknowledge that it was a socialist minister who recovered Villarejo and others, such as Rubalcaba, who promoted him, rewarded him and rewarded him with retired medals? Are you afraid? Are you afraid to investigate the looting of reserved funds, to investigate state terrorism or to investigate illegal wiretapping, which was the usual practice of the socialist governments of Felipe González? [[Applauds]] I will remind you of what Mr García Castaño said in the Committee of Inquiry. He acknowledged that illegal listening was customary during the PSOE governments, for example, in the places where prostitution was practised - some of them owned by the political family of the President of the Government - where politicians were pressured, especially on one of the left of the Basque Country, for their sexual orientation. Is that what they're afraid of? Will they allow us to study these practices further in the Committee of Inquiry? Are you going to dare? Do you have a problem? Will you allow us to deepen Mr. Rubalcaba's instruction so that in the Astapa case, Mr. Red's daughter, socialist president of the Senate, is not involved? Will they let us delve deeper into Villarejo's illegal wiretaps to the former mayor of Burgos? Was it then also: For the homeland, rightly or without it, lordships of the PSOE? Why don't they let us look at all these issues? Socialist and post-converging ladies and gentlemen, you trust much and much of your electoral strategy to the Villarejo-Roures pact with red carpet on TV3. You give credibility to those who are good for you and forget everything that is not good for you and that is where it is up to us to highlight everything that you intend to hide and to do so believe me that there is enough material for all of you to grasp much more than you think. Independentist gentlemen - term already -, without structural, institutional violence, and without systems like Pegasus are nothing; simple traveling companions of a disordered socialism that will soon cease to govern the destiny of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Santamaría. Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Only a few months ago we presented in this plenary the conclusions of the Kitchen Inquiry Committee, but at this time we have heard audios and information showing that there was a group of policemen acting outside the law and at the service and mandate of the People's Party and the Rajoy Government and that they went in their illegal actions far beyond what we could know in the Kitchen case. [[Rumors]] You've already started interrupting me. I have already announced to you that, with what is going on, you will surely have reason to do so a lot. [[Applauds]] These policemen, acting under the mandate of the People's Party, were not only doing so to cover up the illegal financing of the People's Party, that B-box of Barcenas, but we were also able to know that they were acting to, among other things, invent complaints, to invent documents and to carry out illegal investigations for the sole purpose and purpose of attacking the political adversary. There are some last information and some last audios that are so serious and so obvious that even the judge who is investigating the Villarejo case, the Tandem case, has opened a new piece to be able to investigate these new informations that involve in a very direct way - and if not, listen to the audios - Mrs de Cospedal and the Minister of the Interior, Jorge Fernández, Minister of the Government of Rajoy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that this clear Congress should set up a new committee of inquiry, which, in our view - yes, of course - should have a broader field of work and research than is proposed in the initiative, and that is why we have tabled this amendment which you already know. Of course you have to have a broader field of action and investigation, ladies and gentlemen, because day after day we are knowing and knowing that the People's Party government had no limits, no limits or scruples to use everything at its disposal - reserved funds, false complaints, false reports - to cover up their corruption and to attack the political adversary. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this Congress of Deputies, three commissions of inquiry have been approved which directly affect the People's Party: one on the alleged illegal financing of the PP - alleged when the Commission of Inquiry began, which was then no longer presumed - and the other on the partisan use of the Ministry of the Interior and its means for political purposes and the last, the Kitchen Commission. In the three committees the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party said the same thing, Mr Santamaría, the same thing. In the Commission of Inquiry into Illegal Financing we were told that it was false, that everything was based on unfounded accusations and that it was a persecution against the PP. What happened? A judgment that certifies the illegal financing of the PP and a PP condemned for the works they did at their headquarters with corrupt money. [[Applauds]] Then came the Commission of Inquiry into the use of the Ministry of the Interior for partisan purposes. What did the honors of the PP say? For everything was false, which were unfounded accusations, which was a persecution against the People's Party. And what happened? What has happened is that number two of the police, being Rajoy president, is accused of having launched and disseminated illegal information and that today a judge has had to open a new piece to investigate the audios in which Mr. Jorge Fernández and Mrs. Cospedal are involved with Villarejo. That's what happened. [[Applauds]] And in the Kitchen case - very recent, ladies and gentlemen - what were you telling us, Mr. Santamaría? What were they saying? All unfounded, all lies, a persecution against the PP. And what's the result? For they have the Minister of the Interior, Mr Fernández Díaz, and his Secretary of State accused and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office asking for the charge of Mrs Cospedal. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Imputed, yes, imputed. That's what happened. So, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, these commissions of inquiry were not a persecution of the PP. These commissions of inquiry were not a persecution of the PP, they were for the corruption of the PP. That's why we have to do these commissions of inquiry, for the corruption of the PP. [[Applauds]] If something has become clear to us with these three committees of inquiry that have been given in this House, if something has become clear to us, it is that the People's Party, when it comes to governments and institutions, that does what it does is to use them and to take advantage of them. When you come to power, when you come to governments and institutions, it is what you do, take advantage of and use them. They have used local, autonomous governments, including the nation's government, to illegally finance themselves through bites in public contracts, and there are sentences to prove it. They have even come to use and take advantage of institutions such as the Police or the Ministry of the Interior to cover up their corruption, to cover up the corruption in which they were immersed. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u150	And it's that you, as I tell you, when you get to governments, what you do is take advantage of the institutions. That's what they do when they get to the government. And what do they do when they reach the opposition? Block those institutions. When they are in the Government, they are used and exploited and when they are in the opposition what they do is block them, which is what they are doing with that blockade of the General Council of the Judiciary and their refusal to renew it, because we are all clear that you have calculated more than enough of that blockade. You do not want a renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary because you believe that the majority that the Council has right now benefits you. And how does it benefit you, ladies and gentlemen? They can benefit, for example, from the different trials ahead of them by cases of corruption in which the PP is affected and by those who have to judge them. They think that the majority can favor them. Mr. Cosidó explained this very well; he explained it very well and in a sentence, that of 'we will control the Second Chamber from behind'. Well, that's it, gentlemen of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. These commissions of inquiry have also served us to verify that no matter who the leader of the People's Party is. It doesn't matter - Aznar, Rajoy, Married, now Feijóo -, the result is the same, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u151	Mr. Sicilia, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u152	I'm on my way. The result is the same: when they are in opposition, the PP does what it does is block and when they are in government, the PP does what it does is corrupt itself. That is why we have to approve this Committee of Inquiry, which will be the fourth committee that concerns the People's Party. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, when the debate is over, I should like to inform you that from 16 hours to 17 hours today, i.e. for one hour, non-legislative proposals, motions resulting from urgent appeals, the direct and single reading of international conventions, committee opinions on legislative initiatives, the amendment of the whole and the request for a lawyer, the amendments of the Senate and the request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry will be able to be voted on by telematical means. The meeting was suspended until 7 p.m. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended at three and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u155	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Having completed the deadline to cast the votes, I shall now proceed to state the results of the votes. We started with non-law propositions. No bill proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on cosmetic surgery and the fight against intruders and pseudosciences. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Votes cast, 348; yes, 292; no votes cast; abstentions, 56. It was therefore adopted. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on reducing the IRPF to inflation. [[File number 162/001073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u156	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on adjusting the IRPF to inflation. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. Votes cast, 348; yes, 165; no, 169; abstentions, 14. It is therefore rejected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u157	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group, on the situation of independent audiovisual production in Catalonia. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Republican Parliamentary Group. Votes cast, 348; yes, 195; no, 100; abstentions, 53. It was therefore adopted. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, in order that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation explain the measures she intends to take to improve the THE EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION, TRANSPARENCY AND CONTROL OF EUROPEAN FUNDS ASSOCIATED WITH THE RECOVERY AND RESILENCE MECHANISM. [[File number 173/000164]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u158	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation to explain the measures she intends to take to improve the effective implementation, transparency and control of the European funds associated with the recovery and resilience mechanism. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. Votes cast, 348; yes, 161; no, 176; abstentions, 11. It is therefore rejected. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE END OF THE VIADUCTO DE O CASTRO IN A-6. [[Lord KANDAMIL KINGDOM]] [[File number 173/000165]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u159	Motion following urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, on the collapse of the O Castro viaduct in the A-6. [[Mr. Rego Candamil]] Votes cast, 348; yes, 344; no votes cast; abstentions, 4. It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u160	Direct and read-only processing of international conventions. Vote on the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden, done at Brussels on 5 July 2022, for a single reading. Votes cast, 348; yes, 290; no, 11; abstentions, 47. It was therefore adopted. - PROTOCOL TO THE TREATY OF THE NORTH ATLANTIC ON THE ACCESSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 5 JULY 2022. [[File number 110/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u161	Overall vote on the protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Finland, done at Brussels on 5 July 2022, for a single reading. Votes cast, 348; yes, 290; no, 11; abstentions, 47. It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u162	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Vote on the opinion of the Bill amending Act 13/2011 of 27 May 2011 on the regulation of gambling. Votes cast, 348; yes, 200; no; abstentions, 148. The opinion was therefore adopted. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 38/2015 OF 29 SEPTEMBER OF THE RAILWAY SECTOR. [[File number 121/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u163	Vote on the opinion of the draft law amending Act 38/2015 of 29 September 2015 on the railway sector. Votes cast, 348; yes, 264; no, 17; abstentions, 67. The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u164	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Draft law on cooperation for sustainable development and global solidarity. Amendment to the return. Amendment to the full refund submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Votes cast, 347; yes, 53; no, 294; no abstentions. That amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u165	Request for avocado. Request by the Republican Parliamentary Group for avocation by the plenary of the House of deliberation and final vote of the bill. Votes cast, 348; yes, 346; no, 2; no abstentions. The notice was therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u166	Senate amendments. Business Creation and Growth Bill. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to Article 5. Point five. Votes cast, 346; yes, 199; no, 147; no abstentions. It was therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 5. Six. Votes cast, 346; yes, 246; no, 95; abstentions, 5. It was therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 6. Nineteen. Votes cast, 346; yes, 106; no, 229; abstentions, 11. It is therefore rejected. Amendments to article 10. One. Votes cast, 346; yes, 162; no, 173; abstentions, 11. It is therefore rejected. Amendments to article 15. Votes cast, 346; yes, 160; no, 181; abstentions, 5. It is therefore rejected. Amendments to the eighth additional provision. Votes cast, 345; yes, 292; no, 52; abstentions, 1. It was therefore adopted. Amendment to additional provision 10. Votes cast, 346; yes, 292; no votes cast; abstentions, 54. It was therefore adopted. Amendment to transitional provision 5. Votes cast, 346; yes, 98; no, 238; abstentions, 10. It is therefore rejected. The rest of the Senate's amendments. Votes cast, 346; yes, 340; no; abstentions, 6. They are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-15-CD220915.u167	Requests for the establishment of Commissions of Inquiry. Request by the Republican, Plural and Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Groups for the creation of a commission of inquiry on the alleged interference by Spanish political leaders with the sovereignty of the Principality of Andorra, as well as by para-politicians within the framework of the so-called 'Operation Catalonia'. The vote was taken on the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. Votes cast, 345; yes, 191; no, 153; abstentions, 1. That request was therefore approved. Thank you all very much. The meeting rose. It was five and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
