ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. I ask you, please, to take your seats. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u2	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, just three days after the International Monetary Fund's review, the INE has also joined the one you call the catastrophic side where you say it's just PP. After being disallowed by all the bodies, do you still maintain your unusual growth forecast of 7 % for this year? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u3	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u4	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, what is clear is that thanks to our determined and effective response to the pandemic, the Spanish economy is at a stage of intense economic growth. [[Rumors]] It is a very different way out of the crisis than in the past, as demonstrated by the extraordinary recovery of the labour market. Today we will have the January data showing the maintenance of this positive trend in terms of social security membership, in terms of unemployment, in terms of ERTE and, in addition, an increase in indefinite membership in this first month of effectiveness of labour reform. In addition, in the fourth quarter of last year, Spain was the country that grew the most from the great Europeans, far above Germany, France or Italy. All international bodies expect Spain to be one of the engines of recovery and economic growth in 2022 and 2023 with an average growth forecast in the five-per-cent three-year period, which is unmatched, with very few comparisons in historical terms. I mean, we're facing a sustained recovery and not a passing rebound. Your Honor, let me tell you that this is very good news that we should all be happy, even the opposition. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u6	Mrs Calviño, next week the European Commission will publish its winter growth forecasts. Will you resign if you are again disqualified? [[Rumors]] Because Spain does not need one more pythonise, but a minister who goes through the economic scenarios rigorously and you don't even know what the actual execution of European funds is and the impact on GDP. The only truth this government has said about liars is that it is not going to leave anyone behind, of course, because no one is left behind, we are the last. [[Show a chart]] See, of the eurozone countries, Spain is the only one whose families have not recovered their disposable income before the pandemic, but we will say more. In their propaganda delusion they want to make all Spaniards believe that a kind letter of courtesy sent by Mrs Von der Leyen was a personal compliment to Mr Sánchez. Come on, it's like a footballer giving the goal to the hobby, you think it's for him. Moreover, it is not true that there is intense growth and even less a fair recovery, as you like to say, because it is not just a recovery where 12 million people are at risk of poverty. [[Applauds]] It is not fair a recovery where more than three million Spaniards are unemployed, half of them long-term. Your Honor, we're not for triumphalism. Spain ended 2021 with the highest unemployment rate in the 27 countries, the highest rate of youth unemployment, the second highest rate of female unemployment, and in the three concepts we double the European average. Your Honor, it is not fair to recover where 11% of families cannot turn on and heat their homes because the bill for light has risen by 72% and inflation is 6 %. Mrs. Calviño, at this point no one is buying your propaganda anymore because real Spain knows your situation. Are you going to take some responsibility or are you going to keep blaming the PP for everything? [[A honourable Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u7	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u8	Look, with more than 20 million people occupied and an unemployment rate of 13.3%, we have recovered figures that were not seen in our country since before the financial crisis that started in 2008. And that's very good news because there are over six hundred thousand more families that have all their members occupied and there are over one hundred thousand fewer families that have all their members unemployed. But, Your Honor, I am very pleased that you say that you are concerned about youth unemployment, that you are concerned about unemployment, about poverty, about inequality. They support labour reform because that is the first step in combating inequality in our country. [[Applauds]] It shows the way forward. They support labour reform, they support the Recovery Plan, they join the cart of this strong, sustained and just recovery, which is the agenda of our Government and not another. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMING THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHY DOES THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT IGNORATE THE NEEDS OF RURAL SPAIN? [[File number 180/000764]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u9	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, the farmers, the farmers, the people living in rural Spain, Spain abandoned by you leads a life far from politics, very attached to the ground, very rooted in its natural environment. They like to be clear, to call things by their name, to call bread and wine wine, and so they are too quick to understand that their rulers, those of the 2030 Agenda, with their colored hats and with their goodness, have forgotten about them. I have been with many of them lately in this campaign, in Burgos, in Arévalo, in Medina del Campo, in Toro, in Aguilar de Campoo. You know what they say? They say they want to be heard. They have asked us to give them a voice by denouncing rulers who attack them, perhaps because they don't know them, and certainly because they don't listen to them. And for that we are, to give them voice and to defend them. I wonder why this government ignores the needs of rural Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u11	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u12	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, our Government is absolutely sensitive and committed to promoting rural Spain and I do not think that it is encouraged by giving it that tone of victimism, of abandonment, which does not correspond at all to our agenda, which is a positive agenda that looks to the future, based on facts. [[Applauds]] The third axis of the recovery plan is social and territorial cohesion. We have a Vice-President of the Government in charge, in her body and in her soul, of the struggle against the demographic challenge, the depopulation and the problems we have in a part of our territory. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u14	We have made a strategic plan with unprecedented investment to deploy investments throughout the territory with very special attention to rural needs. Your Honor, in the face of these kind of catastrophic, negative speeches, which also try to confront the countryside with the city, the citizens among themselves, let's face the facts. The facts are the unprecedented investment of this Government in digital connectivity, which is a key to economic opportunities; the investment in the modernization of irrigation, which the Minister of Agriculture is explaining in all those villages in which you say you have been; the renovation of the vehicles of the workers in the countryside to promote the modernization of the agro-food industry with that strategic project that we are going to launch shortly thanks to European funds; developing internal tourism; investing in the renewal of our extraordinary artistic and cultural heritage; making health and education reach all corners of our country, so that people are set up, to care for young people and also our elderly. That is what this Government is doing, Your Honor, and this is the speech that I believe all these citizens want and deserve. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u15	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u16	So for you the countryside is victimized; that is, you are the prototype of city center politics that completely ignores what happens there. [[rumors]] Look, you've done a good review of exactly everything you don't have to do. You are attacking the countryside daily and, indeed, the Minister of Labour attacks it when, in a frivolous and irresponsible way, she says that there is slavery in the countryside - your words, Minister - even if Spain is a country with the most demanding labour standards in Europe. He mentions the Minister of Ecological Transition, whose energy pricing policy has triggered production costs and, by the way, especially farmers and farmers, whom you want to ban diesel. Prohibiting diesel in the field, minister, would give for an entire afternoon to explain what that means. The Minister of Finance has raised all generic taxes and all autonomous quotas, in addition to green taxes; she has not left a tax behind. You speak of the Minister for Agriculture, who has said that it is a good agreement to cut the common agricultural policy. Or the Minister of Consumer Affairs, who, by the way, has been a coward and has not come today to the first control session he had after the last barbarity he has said and who attacks the Spanish countryside. [[applause]] To the countryside, Minister, the government attacks, which allows the wolf to camp wide, threatening precisely our cattle. And they attack the camp all those who make the survival of the camp impossible, precisely because there is no generational relief. What you say that there has been a minister dealing with the demographic transition is an absolute failure. You've been ruling for four years now and everything you say you're going to do could have been done in the previous four years. All those who force the field to produce at loss, those who force the field to submit to taxes and conditions that are not required of the product that comes from abroad are those who are killing the field. It can be either with the field or with the 2030 Agenda. I know who you're with. VOX will always be with the field and that's why more and more the field is with VOX. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u17	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u18	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I really regret that you do not understand that the countryside is absolutely an intrinsic part of the 2030 Agenda..., that the 2030 Agenda is about ensuring that traditional activities, which are fundamental to the rural economy, are maintained, but we also guarantee the future, we guarantee that young people will be able to continue to develop these activities in rural areas, protecting those agricultural activities, those livestock activities and the set of activities that are carried out in rural areas. [[applause]] We are committed to the workers and entrepreneurs of the countryside, and they know it very well, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, do not deceive you by going for a walk one day. It's not about being there and giving a speech that tries to confront the countryside with the city, young people with the elderly. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, please let us all move in the same direction, and support a prosperous and sustainable future... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u19	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FRENCH BALENDER, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR VICE-President FIRST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE AGENDA FOR ECONOMIC REFORMS IS ACCORDING TO THE PRIORITIES OF THE CONjunTO OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00774]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u20	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u21	Mrs Calviño, do you consider that the government has the economic priorities of the Spaniards on its agenda?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u22	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u23	Mr Bal, as you know well, because for the past three and a half years I have explained it, the economic policy agenda of this government is guided by three principles: fiscal responsibility, progressive structural reforms, looking to the future, and social justice. These are the principles that guide us and we have an ambitious agenda for structural reforms - which you also know because most of them are already here in Parliament - which, on the one hand, is fully aligned with the recommendations of international bodies, the specific recommendations and the shortcomings and diagnoses that have been made to our country and, on the other hand, with the consensus and recommendations of the most advanced experts in this field. So, yes, Mr Bal, the reforms that we are putting in place have the interests of Spanish citizens in their hearts and absolutely as a priority. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u24	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u25	Look, Mrs Calviño, I understand that you stand on the defensive in the face of the cheers you receive from the People's Party and from VOX and I simply ask you to answer me seriously to the concern of a street citizen, a Spanish on foot, who is listening to you speak in the previous question of the future growth forecasts. But I'm telling you about the current reality. We are at the tail of Europe in recovery, behind Germany, Italy and France and you put in Spanish Radiotelevision diagrams and graphics to make the Spaniards believe that everything is going well. The Spanish Radio Television, sharing with the People's Party, is no longer believed by anyone and it seems that the twenty-two ministers are the only twenty-two Spaniards to whom they do not care that consumption is falling and inflation is rising. I think you want to do your homework right. Of course, you awaken us less doubts than doña Yolanda Díaz. I think you're a solvent person. But, look, the previous question is the first time I have heard you speak in favour of labour reform, and you will have to say something about labour reform when Yolanda Díaz tries to sabotage the government's labour reform with the usual partners. Be brave, say that we must approve labour reform, that we must not touch a coma and promise on behalf of the Government that there will not be a single session of nationalism and separatism. We've been responsible. This is not the labour reform that the liberals would do and yet we want to avoid the catastrophe of these assignments to Otegi and Rufián. Because they want to break the labour market, they want to set up first and second-rate workers, they want to sabotage employment and, above all, increase youth insecurity, but they also want to waste the competitiveness of our businesses and that will have something to do with you, won't it? It will agree with me that, if you were not here Citizens, you would already be yielding to the blackmail of nationalists and separatists, but we are here, with responsibility, to support entrepreneurs, workers and families. And, look, how annoying they are. I think you're also a little happy about this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u26	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u27	Mr Bal, thank you for drawing attention to labour reform, which is undoubtedly one of the most important structural reforms of the Recovery Plan, which will enable us to make this the economic cycle of quality job creation. This has to be the recovery of quality employment. We are committed and the first data confirm that this is a good reform for our country. Moreover, it is the result of a tripartite agreement, following an intense negotiation with the social partners, which we have to protect, because social dialogue and this tripartite agreement is a fundamental element of social legitimacy in this labour reform. In addition, it is a reform that addresses the imbalances and problems that have plagued our growth and well-being for decades - youth unemployment, high-temporaryness, precariousness - which also gives legal certainty to businesses and responds to the recommendations of international bodies and, specifically, to the European institutions and is a key milestone for the next payment of the recovery plan. We are talking about EUR 12 billion. For all these reasons, on account of responsibility, I would expect unanimous support from this Parliament for labour reform. I expect that responsibility to prevail tomorrow when your ladies and gentlemen have to vote, because this job reform is the one that Spain needs, is good for our country and will allow us to support a strong, sustained and, above all, just economic recovery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY GARCIA EGEA THEODOR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND SECOND CHAIRPERSON OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHAT IS THE IMPACT OF WORK REFORM IN THE MOTOR'S SECTOR? [[File number 180/000776]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u28	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Calviño, everything's stuck. Ever since you've been with Yolanda Díaz, you've been lying a lot. He lies more than he speaks, because no job has been created, almost 200,000 jobs have been destroyed. Propaganda doesn't create a job, Mrs. Calviño. This reform is also designed, Mrs Díaz, to save your job, not the work of thousands of people in the field or in the motor sector. You have failed; you have failed because Mrs Calviño's prayers have been heard. I remember that day when you promised to repeal the labor reform, your partner looked up to heaven... your prayers have been heard. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] You have not abrogated the labour reform of the PP, you have simply made it worse: less flexibility and greater rigidity in hiring, precisely at a time when the economy needs more flexibility. The job reform you are proposing is bad for employment and bad for the motor, because, of course, it is important for you to save only one job, yours, or that of Mr Sánchez, and not the 547,000 families working for the motor sector. It has been approving the reform and increasing unemployment; they will end the temporality, but sending all the Spaniards to unemployment. That is why I would like to ask you about the effect this reform will have on an important sector such as the motor sector. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u30	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u31	Your Honor, you noticed I didn't know what to ask. So much so that in few hours I have changed the question three times. However, I will answer the three questions you have asked. [[Rumors]] And, look, if the current labour reform doesn't change anything, I'll vote for it tomorrow. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u32	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u33	Mrs Díaz, this clear job reform that changes, for all you're thinking is to save your job. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u35	It is a makeup that worsens working conditions and the only thing that tries to save you from your unfulfilled promises with the radical left. A government is defined by the people it defends and attacks. This is their government: they criminalize farmers for watering in the Levante or in other parts of Spain, while they support the Okupas who storm the people's house; they suffocate farmers because they say they pollute and their president takes the plane whenever he wants to go to a concert or to his brother-in-law's wedding; they forget more than a million families who have all their members unemployed, as the number of families that have all their members working in the Moncloa grows; and they also abandon people who cannot pay the bill for the light. Do you remember when you and your partner, Irene Montero, were asking for a minute of silence for the victims of energy poverty and today you don't have a minute to deal with them? What a lack of sensitivity! Why? [[Applauds]] Because Minister Garzón has brought to light his hidden agenda, which is nothing other than attacking the one who produces and protecting the one who lives from others, because an autonomous pays twice as much for working in Spain as in France; that is a shame. This reform and its action on this issue has only one basis: that you and Mr Sánchez live from the story. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u36	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u37	Mr. García Aegean, I'm not giving you a data today, I'm giving you ten. Look, we have more than 20 million jobs in our country, as has not been known since 2008; we have created 840 700 jobs, which, as you know, is a historical figure; half of those jobs, 480,000, are women; we have 9.3 million women affiliated with Social Security for the first time in our country; we have 105 700 self-employed people more than before the crisis; we have reduced youth unemployment, Mr García Aegean, in spite of you, by more than 10 points. Look, the historical figure for the current unemployment is 13.3%; you have to go back 14 years to get this figure. We have reduced unemployment in all sectors, in all autonomous communities and between men and women. Despite his speech and his votes, which incorrectly told us that from ERTE we were going to the ERE, today 97% of those workers have returned to their jobs. Families with all their members in unemployment have been reduced by 170,000. Mr García Aegean, despite you, this country is still moving forward. And since he's worried about the car industry, look, I've just been at SEAT, and this is the model that the Spanish government and the social partners are defending. Do you know what the rate of indefinite contracts is? It's 99%. This is the model that advocates labour reform. [[Applauds]] By the way, if you are so concerned about the automotive sector, it would be appropriate, Mr García Eggea, if you told Mr Casado to stop campaigning against the recovery funds, because the automotive sector in our country is playing nothing more and nothing less than the part of the electric vehicle €43 billion. Mr. García Aegean, stop cheating, remember in favor of your country. These data are not propaganda, they are people, they are families, and not thanks to you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: HOW WOULD YOU BENEFICIATE YOUR WORK REFORM TO THE SPANISH AGRICULTURE SECTOR? [[File number 180/000763]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u38	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u39	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, I don't know what might have happened to her. Have you given him time to read the question posed to him by Mr. Theodoro García Aegean? Because I was asking him about the agricultural sector and he hasn't devoted a single word to the countryside. [[Applauds]] Just a few days ago, you were saying in statements to the media regarding your Government - and believe me, minister, they are literal words of yours - that 'this Government does very chulsy things and we are not able to communicate them'. [[laughs]] Now answer VOX: how would this job reform benefit the Spanish agricultural sector? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u40	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u41	Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. You should better review the record of this House. Mr García Aegean has changed the question on three occasions, the last one, which was not about agriculture, should be reviewed. I know you have a fight about who gets more on the right, but the question wasn't exactly about what you're saying. [[Applauds]] Look, I wonder how labour reform affects the agriculture sector. Basically in something that is an anomaly of our country... [[Rumors.-Mr. García Aegean utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u42	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u43	...which is precarious, also in the countryside. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u44	Quiet, please. Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Communist minister, not content with criminalizing the Spanish primary sector by treating our farmers and farmers as genuine criminals by false accusations of slavery and violation of labour rights, not content with accusing our farmers and farmers of being the culprits of their ideological climate emergency when one hour of that Falcon, that military official plane that you personally like to use for private trips to the Vatican, produces more emissions than 16,000 cows in our fields, not content with it, now this government is taking another blow to the Spanish primary sector by imposing a change of recruitment model that does not take into account the specificities and regime specific to the Spanish agricultural sector. This planned labour reform, minister, has been done behind the back of the countryside. Listen to me well, temporality is intrinsic to the Spanish agricultural sector, which does not mean precariousness, but, as the closest you have been to the field, is to the supermarket chain or to play golf and continues to think that lettuces grow in stock, we have 'lady unemployed', which with almost 117,000 livestock and agricultural farms will generate the loss of thousands of agricultural jobs. I'll tell you next February 16th from Murcia, at the tractor station where I'll be present, as I did last week in Salamanca. Listen to us well, communist minister, because you are not going to win the pulse of the Spanish rural world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u46	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u47	Mrs. Olona, I'm going to give you some data. You have a problem, and it is that you confuse seasonality with precariousness and, look, Spain, agriculture, the Spanish countryside has a rate of temporality of 57 %. Do you know what the European average is? Twenty-five points less. France and other countries, despite being seasonal sectors, have a temporality rate of twenty-five points less. It is true that our country is a major country in agriculture, and that is what this government is defending; as major as we are the fourth exporting country in the European Union. However, it should also be noted that, despite this, its model of labour relations is moving away from the European situation. We're also anomalous. Look, could you explain to me how it is possible that this September nothing more and nothing less than 14 500 Andalusian workers from the countryside will go to the French harvest when the entrepreneurs here are asking for labour? Do you know why, Mrs. Olona? Simply because the working conditions in the field are improveable. [[Applauds]] Look, you're talking about a reality. I would like a party that claims to be constitutionalist, when there are inspections in the field, to place itself on the side of legality and not on the side of what are irregularities. And also note that if it were for you, Mrs. Olona, today we would not have fair prices in the countryside. You have voted against the Food Chain Act, you have not supported the Spanish Government in the CAP, which, as you know, has achieved more than €47 billion by 2027. [[applause]] You, Mrs Olona, are not the party of the countryside, although today you are dressing in the countryside, you are defending a minority in the countryside who seek privileges and who, by the way, sometimes commit irregularities. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON TOMÁS CAPEZÓN CASAS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHAT INVESTMENTS AND AID HAS THE MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE IN MUNICIPOS OF LESS THAN 5000 HABITANTS? [[File number 180/000769]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u49	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Tomás Cabezón Casas, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u50	Thank you, President. Mrs Díaz, ten data give us today in which we recognize the success of the labour reform of the People's Party. Welcome to amend yourself after so much criticism of the Labour Reform of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Vice-President Ribera, four out of five Spanish municipalities have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. I am from Soria, the province most punished for depopulation, where only three municipalities have more than 5,000 inhabitants. See if you have room to invest. I am a councillor and have been mayor of Castilfrio, with thirty-five inhabitants. That is why I know how difficult it is to face depopulation and meet the needs of small municipalities and how important it is to innovate and invest in them. Three ministers have gone to Soria in the last few days, and zero new commitments. Twelve months has passed since the Soria Diputation waiting for you to receive them to present tractor projects, twelve months, Madam Vice President, and you do not even respond. You fly over the official Spain in Falcon. We work for real Spain that you mistreat. When are we going to get the promised help? When will the European funds reach the peoples? When are they going to launch differentiated taxation for Soria, Cuenca and Teruel? Will they be aid for the companies also installed? Minister, what investments and aid have you made in municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u51	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u52	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for giving me the opportunity to comment on the data you reflect in your speech. Coming from an autonomous community that has suffered as no other depopulation in the last thirty years - by the way, I want to remember ruled by whom - it is interesting to show and ask what we have done. In very short words, I will tell you: in 2021, not only with accounts, but also with budget, we have processed more than EUR 3 billion and implemented or initiated 80% of the measures incorporated in that Plan 130 against the demographic challenge, 250 of which have gone to Castile and León. Ask the Government of Castile and León how many processing files of all that money has started, because it is going to find a very short answer. Some of the examples he has put forward are also interesting, which I will certainly have the opportunity in the second intervention to detail with concrete answers regarding the main axes of this recovery plan. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u53	Mr. Header.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u54	Madam Vice-President, in the people we no longer believe you, you have been Vice-President for two years now and in the people we do not see your investments coming. He says Castile and Leon are losing population. Ask your partner or your party partner from Aragón, who is the autonomous community that most people have lost from all of Spain in the last year, and don't come to us with monks, because depopulation is a state problem. Precisely in the face of their lack of interest in depopulation, we believe in investment and innovation; in the face of their inaction in differentiated taxation, we believe in aid to jobs and businesses in unpopulated areas and in aid to families and reconciliation, and in the face of their rural desertification, to which we are condemned, we believe in plans for the return of talent, research, social innovation, modernization of the countryside and digitisation. We know you don't like to step on people, which is more of an international summit, but focus on your work and start acting. We are not emptied Spain, we are forgotten Spain by its government and, as it goes through the distribution of European funds, we will be the Spain hesitated by sanchismo and its white brands and platforms. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u55	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u56	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. The truth is that it is good to hear from him and I would like to find him at the forefront of concrete initiatives; not only victimism and forgetfulness, but entrepreneurship and desire to do things, which is what has failed in Castile and León, which is the autonomous community that the most population has lost in the last thirty years, with the province that the most population has lost: Zamora. [[applause]] And it turns out that this isn't a problem from the day before yesterday. We have been working hard, not only for diagnosis, but to accompany the people and their inhabitants. The year 2021, 3 billion; this year, 2022, will be more than 4200, many of them stuck, as I say, in the Junta de Castilla y León, and an initiative, that of recovering a differentiated treatment for the three provinces with the least inhabitants of all Spain, that have worked precisely the governments of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in Castilla-La Mancha and in Aragón. [[Applauds]] I hope that in Castile and León, in addition to what others do, they would have worked hard, like this Government, which has put it in the State's General Budgets for the year 2022. But we know that it is not just empty words, we know that there are four fundamental axes on which to work, most of which are heavily involved in absent autonomic skills for more than thirty years in Castile and León. Think about housing, where we have activated programs like the PRE 5000, still pending call from Castile and León; think about the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u57	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ LOUIS ACCES GALINDO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHAT ARE THE MEASURES PREVIOUS TO FRENCH AND REDUCING DISPOSAL PROCESSES IN CASTILLA And Lion? [[File number 180/000758]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u58	Question by Mr José Luis Aceves Galindo, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u59	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Madam Vice President, first of all I want to answer Mr Cabezón and tell him to take advantage of eleven days left... [[protests]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u60	Quiet, please. Mr. Aceves, ask your question. [[Protests.-A Member: Questions to the Government]] Quiet, please! Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u61	Thank you, President. Take advantage, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of the fact that eleven days remain for the land of Castile and León to receive change and hope, eleven days. [[Protests.-Applause.]] And take advantage of this to claim that eleven days remain for your government to get European funds to the municipalities, because the Community's failure is thirty-five years of disgovernment, thirty-five years of political rule. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u62	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u63	They get very nervous.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u64	I ask you to remain silent. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u65	When they're done screaming, I'll go on. It's out of democratic respect. [[Rumors.-Protests.-A honourable Member: It is control of the government, not the opposition.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u66	Can we continue the control session? [[Protests.-Several Members: Yes, that, that]] Quiet, please. Mr. Aceves, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u67	Thank you, President. Look, I am a deputy for Segovia, I live in rural areas by choice and we are sick of thirty-five years in which the Government of the Community of Castile and León has done absolutely nothing for the policies... [[Protests.-A Member: Madam President!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u68	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u69	In the thirty-five years of government of the People's Party in Castile and León, 200,000... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I respect all Members who have the floor, and it is Mr Aceves who has the floor right now. [[the rumors continue]] I ask you to be quiet, please, and respect. [[One Member: Respect for the control session.- One Member: If you don't know what it is]] Go on, Mr. Aceves.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u71	Two hundred thousand inhabitants less in the last thirty-five years in Castile and León, but if we do not make effective policies with the demographic challenge, we will reach 240,000 less, according to the projection of the INE, in fifteen years, in 2030. [[the rumors continue]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to govern is to populate, and the absolute failure of a government is when its territory depopulates. And that's what happened in Castile and Leon in thirty-five years. [[Rumors]] Weakness of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And as much as they speak, as much as they interrupt, it is the reality of a territory that day by day unfolds because there has been no effective measure nor has there ever been... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u72	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u73	There have never been effective measures against the challenge until the Government of Pedro Sánchez has launched them in our country. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Oh!-Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I recognize you... [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Aceves. Your time's up. [[Rumors.-Applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.-Applause from some Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Laughter]] When there's silence, we'll continue. Quiet, please. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government. [[Rumors and protests.-Laughter]] Quiet, please! [[The Rumors Continue]] I'll ask you again for silence, please. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u75	Thank you very much, President. I believe that the most important issue is to work, as you know, from the institutions for all citizens in all territories. We have never had an opportunity like this, with the Recovery Plan, and it is possible to work on this social and territorial cohesion because it was a priority part of the agenda of the Government of Spain, which has not been the case for the last ten years. [[Applauds]] And, yes, Castile and León is the autonomous community that suffers most from depopulation, like no other autonomous community in Spanish territory. The opposite of the population agenda, announced by the People's Party in 2010 for Castile and León, is what we are doing. Less rhetoric and more words, less announcing things that are not done The opposite of the closure of more than 3,000 outpatient centers and clinics in the territory of Castile and León is to work for the provision of services. [[applause]] How can we correct so many inequalities and promote the democratic quality of citizens living in rural and urban areas, when in favour of 5000 people a tax revenue capacity of 200 million euros is abolished in Castile-Leon and, above all, is presumed to be in the campaign? But who's gonna believe them? This is impossible to sustain without tax revenues. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u76	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u77	Over the past three years this government has invested 26% more than Mariano Rajoy's government had invested in Castile and León in eight years. Do you guys realize that? In three years, 26% more than over eight years, and on all fronts: in rural and agricultural areas, but also in connectivity and broadband access; in the provision of services, water, sanitation and purification. I insist, waiting for Castile and Leon to finish preparing their plans. However, the initiatives of the small municipalities are overwhelming. One thinks how they react when sustainable urban development is called in small municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants and how they feel that for the first time from the state they are being cared for and listened to. [[Rumors]] The relationship between the State and local authorities lacks the commitment of many autonomous governments such as Castile and León. So, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we will continue to work for all the inhabitants, but in particular we will continue to work in Castile and León, where it is essential to reverse the situation that has accumulated over the past thirty years. [[protests]] [[Protests]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Mrs.Angulo Romero utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u78	Mrs. Angulo, please be quiet. [[Rumors]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE CHILD HISPAN Iglesias de USSEL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: IS THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE CONCERNING ADDITIONAL DEFENCE IN THE CASE OF MILITARY CONFLICT IN URANIA? [[File number 180/000770]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u79	Questions to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Pablo Hispan Iglesias de Ussel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u80	That's ridiculous and that's embarrassing. They have forgotten once again that we are here to control the government of Sánchez and not the opposition or the government of Castile and León, which is going to win the next elections. [[Applauds]] Mrs Robles, we are experiencing a very serious international crisis, the most dangerous moment since the Cold War, according to Mr Borrell. The President of my party, aware of the importance and gravity From this moment on, announced our support for Spain to fulfil its obligations with NATO allies, showing once again responsibility and sense of state. Meanwhile, the Government has only shown chaos, disorganization and uncoordinatedness. That is why, on 19 January, it was the Foreign Minister and not you who announced that he would not dismiss sending troops on the ground to Ukraine in case the crisis worsened. You, following those instructions, announced to the day the dispatch of the frigate Blas of Lezo to the Black Sea and of the hunts to Bulgaria, we do not know if because they had already begun to make things worse. Not happy, 21st sailed the meteor from Cartagena. They should have gotten a lot worse. In the meantime, the other part of the government dedusting the banners and stickers of 'No to War' because, as Ministers Montero and Belarus say, you must disobey the war party, which in this case is you. On the 25th, Minister Albares appeared in this house and assured us that no more troops would be sent. He said at the same time that you ordered the Sella fighter to leave, something the minister did not know. The ridiculous thing was huge. Today we still do not know what the Government's plans are; on the part of the Government, because Minister Belarus has already presented a peace plan for Ukraine following her appalling bellicose wars. Mrs Robles, do the Spaniards have a right to know what Mr Sánchez's plans are in the event of an escalation of the conflict in Ukraine or do we have to keep waiting? What else has to happen if Mr Sánchez is to come to this House? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u81	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u82	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I ask you for responsibility and a sense of state. His party has been in the government for eight years; his party knows perfectly well Spain's commitments to NATO, and his party knows perfectly well that the missions in which Spain is in are permanent missions that were already coming from the times of his government. Therefore, there is no need to announce anything that is not already there. Get a little up-to-date on what your party was doing when it was in the government. I understand that it bothers you and does not like it, but Spain, with this government, is a serious, reliable, responsible partner. See if it will be serious, reliable and responsible that, even if you don't like it and you didn't get it, the NATO summit is going to be held this year in Madrid in June. [[Applauds]] It's going to be held in June. You know why? Because it has the conformity of all NATO countries. So please don't create alarmist scenarios. Raise your shoulder, work for peace, which is what this Government and its Armed Forces are doing, which have 3,000 men and women on peace missions. Do not come here to shout, because in times like those we are living what needs to be done is, first, to know the reality, to know the position of Spain, to know the position of Spain in NATO, which should know it, and, second, to work with the Government. You go out and say you support the government, but you oppose everything and it's worth everything. So, sense of responsibility, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u83	Mr. Hispan.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u84	What a piece of paper he has to do in a government with twenty-two ministers, twenty-two different plans and a president who is neither expected nor expected. That's why Biden devoted thirty seconds to him, and no matter how many photos he takes, he doesn't summon him to the summits. It is impossible to generate the certainty and reliability necessary to deal with this crisis or even to host a NATO summit when one part of the Government supports that summit, the other half criticises and the investiture bloc calls for us to abandon it. Look, Mrs. Robles, they've gone from Marxism to the Marx brothers' cabin, too, and that's how it goes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u85	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u86	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Marx brothers' cabin is definitely your party, because you, who belong to the PP, do not know what your government did, what your government's commitments at the time, or what the reality is today. [[Applauds]] So, please, just relax a little bit. I know you are very nervous, but think that this government has an image abroad, in NATO and in the European Union of reliability. I know you don't like it, but you do, so please put order in your party, in your opposition, because if we start talking about disorder, do you want me to tell you what you do with Mrs. Díaz Ayuso? [[Applauds]] - Mr Gerard Álvarez I GARCIA, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Moldova, which forms the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation: Would the Government not need the authorization of the Spanish Parliament to send military personnel to areas of increasing military tension? [[File number 180/000765]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u87	Question by Mr Gerard Álvarez i García, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. At the appearance last Tuesday of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, all the parliamentary groups that are part of the opposition showed consensus on putting to the vote the intervention of the Spanish Army in the crisis on the borders of Ukraine. Does the Government not consider it necessary to authorize the Spanish Parliament to send military personnel to areas of increasing military tension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u88	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u89	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I begin by conveying to you and your entire parliamentary group the grief and affection for the passing of Senator Aubà. I think it has been a very important loss and I want to pass it on to you. [[Applauds]] Secondly, and with regard to the question you ask me, all that Spain has at the moment in the missions in which it is, which are missions that come from 1995, those of naval groups, and those of 2012 that are in airspace, are missions of permanence, of stability, in no case offensive, of which every year - since 1995 and since 2012 - Parliament has been aware. I come every year to report on the missions, and I insist, are missions of permanence, of stability, which in no case are offensive, to which no operation has been awarded, because at this time the only scenario in which we are all, in which we are all, is a scenario of dialogue and diplomacy. Therefore, if the situation changes - we will not contemplate it because we do not want to be alarmists, because we want peace - we will continue to bet on dialogue and diplomacy. The missions that exist are peace missions, peace preservation missions. And the other day - although it bothers the People's Parliamentary Group - Mr Stoltenberg thanks Spain for its work and its work for the preservation of peace. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u90	Mr. Alvarez. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Thank you for your words in honor of Comrade Miquel Aubà. The truth is that repeating what the minister said more or less last week is fine, but it doesn't hang. To send ships and fighters to Eastern Europe is already to enter the stage of deterrence, it is to participate directly in a possible war conflict and to further tension the situation of the territory, because even if it has not started a war, and I hope never, Ukraine is already a zone of military tension. From there, Madam Minister, it is not a mere renewal that you have done, because at the time when the Government is forwarding the shipment in a week at NATO's request, as explained last week, it is clear that it is not a renewal. Therefore, we believe that before sending any kind of military force to any territory, this must be voted on in this House. You claim to be the most progressive government in history. Good. Prove it. A new armed conflict in Ukraine would have devastating consequences for the human rights situation of millions of people. In fact, economic and social rights have already been negatively affected. This is not what I say, Amnesty International says, that I think a little bit of a case we could do to them too. Besides, you talk a lot about NATO. We really believe that relying on NATO's umbrella is a great irresponsibility. NATO is an agency that puts economic interests ahead of shared security, leading to various violations of law and war crimes. Yes, yes, NATO has war crimes behind its back. And, by the way, it's not for nothing, but your colleagues in government, more or less, seem to me, feel the same way, and we are happy. Finally, I would like to send you this message from the Republican Group, which is very clear: No to war. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u91	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u92	Thank you, President. Your Honor, 'No to war' is a phrase, and against wars we are all, against the thirty-four declared wars that are at this time and of which you say nothing. [[Applauds]] But let me tell you something: to preserve peace, you have to work, not just talk. Spain and its Government were working for peace; those men and women who put their lives at risk were in peace settings, and those missions that had taken place since 1995 and since 2012 were aimed at preserving peace. So, stop slogging and let's really work for peace. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON'T EDUARDO CARAZO BEAUMOSO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK OF FOLLOWING ATTAKING PRIVATE PROPERTY AND LEGAL SAFETY WITH THEIR PREVIOUS DRAFT LIVING LAW TO PENSE THE GREAT WARNINGS THAT IT IS RECEIVED? [[File number 180/000771]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u93	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Eduardo Carazo Hermoso, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u94	Thank you, President. I see that the government was coming to control the PP, we are going to control the government now. Minister, does the Government intend to continue to attack private property and legal security with its housing bill? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u95	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Fuck, I'll tell you what this government is going to do. This Government is going to refer to this House for approval, for processing, the housing bill that we passed yesterday, and we are going to do so in the development of the constitutional mandate, and we are going to do so because it is a law that guarantees access to housing and protects private property in turn. We will make housing law a reality after forty years of democracy in our country. Mr. Shit, what's the People's Party gonna do? Will you continue to turn your back on thousands and thousands of families in this country, the most vulnerable, the youngest? Are you going to continue to missell protected housing to vulture funds? Of course, don't count on us for that. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u97	Mr. Fucker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u98	Contradictory, grievous, harmful and inopportune. Does that ring a bell, Mrs. Sanchez? All this and more has been told by the judiciary in the demolishing report that you ignored yesterday; a report that also speaks of invasion of autonomous housing competences. I don't know what their nationalist partners think of that. Minister, who has drafted this law, you or your communist partners, you or Mrs. Belarus? Because seeing the attacks on private property and the lapsed interventionism measures that have failed and that have ended up harming the weakest where they have been applied, we find that, as always, radicals win the pulse in this government. We're not surprised anymore. What is surprising is this sudden interest of the Socialist Party for Castile and Leon. Too bad they didn't remember Castile and León when we were marginalized in the handling of the State's General Budgets and they only remembered our community ten days before they lost an autonomous election. [[Applauds]] Thirty-five years Mr Aceves said, thirty-five years, sending the Castilians and the Lions to the Socialist Party to oppose them. Look at the difference between Sanchez's policies - your president, not you - and the PP governments. Faced with the youth rental bonus, which is like a gruer cheese, which looks whole on the outside but inside it is full of holes, which leaves out of the aid to most young people, Mañueco, in Castile and León, will give real aid to rent and purchase of housing to 20,000 young people, with additional aid in rural areas. While Mañueco will offer free legal advice to the victims of the ocupation, you keep quiet; this is not protecting the most vulnerable. I invite you, Mrs Sánchez, to approach Caamaño Street, in the neighborhood of Las Delicias in my city, Valladolid, and explain to the elderly people who live there, with fear and insecurity for the octopus dwellings in their own blocks, why they have voted against the anti-occupation law of the People's Party. You were mayor, did your neighbors want to occupy your homes, Mrs. Sánchez? I'm sure you don't. Minister, you have the worst mortgage, the mortgage that forces you to repay the loan of your seats to the most radical in this House. The problem, Mrs Sánchez, is that your ineffectiveness and the interests of that mortgage are being paid by all Spaniards. [[Prolonged applause.-A honourable Member: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u99	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Carazo, what is harmful, what is outrageous are the statements of the People's Party, as well as the actions and policies that you have been developing in the field of housing. Look, to give you just one piece of information and since I was referring to the Community of Castile and León: EUR 6 billion more is what this government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, has allocated to Castile and León, unlike what you did when you ruled. That's a fact. [[Applauds]] Following the housing law - it seems that you now care a lot about what the reports of the General Council of the Judiciary say even though on other occasions you have not made the slightest case - and since it refers to the Judiciary, I too will remind you of what the Supreme Court has said in judgments and resolutions - and not, as in this case, in a mandatory but non-binding report of the General Council of the Judiciary, an organ which, on the other hand, has been expired for more than three years. Look, what the Supreme Court has told us about housing and urban planning is that they cannot become a source of enrichment for authorities and disillusioned parties, which approach these issues not with the intention of meeting a basic need of citizens, but with the shameful intention of being profitable participants. That's what we're trying to avoid with this law. What we intend to do is protect the most vulnerable, not insult them by calling them hall okupas. What we intend to do is give support, give an answer to young people, to families who need... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA MAZÓN RAMOS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT PROVISIONS FOR THE MINISTRY FOR INFORMATION STUDIES IN THE FIELD OF CANTABRIA, WITH PARTICULAR REFERENCE TO THE ALAR OF THE KINGDOM, BILBAO-SANTANDER AND VIAS UNDERSTANDING IN HIS TORELAVEGA PASS? [[File number 180/000756]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u102	Question by Mr José María Mazón Ramos of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u103	Madam Minister, as you know, the PRC-PSOE coalition government in Cantabria and our support for the state's budgets are based on an agreement which contains commitments regarding the railways relating to the informative studies of Bilbao-Santander to Alar-Reinosa and the undergroundation of the FEVE tracks in Torrelavega. The truth is that these commitments are being delayed and not everything is because of the pandemic, as many jobs can be done by teleworking. And I want to remind you that the case of Torrelavega is particularly serious, which has to endure dozens of daily traffic cuts by the steps at the level of the city center. Madam Minister, can you commit here today to the guarantee of your word, which represents the government, to setting a date for these three commitments?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u104	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Mazón, as you know, we are committed to improving and developing sustainable actions that bring about and promote the mobility of citizens. And if we're talking about those sustainable and close actions, we're obviously talking about the railway case. We are following closely and developing all those studies and projects that have to do with development, with the improvement of the railway in Cantabria. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u106	Mr. Mazon.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u107	I take note of your reply, which is rather unsatisfactory. I want to remind you that Phase 1 of the Bilbao-Santander study had to be in September. Then you promised to have her by December. We're in February and we still haven't heard from this file. And here I want to remind you that already in 2010 this informational study has stalled. Today we have almost a hundred thousand cars a day, I say in relation to the fight against climate change, which are dedicated to putting CO2 into the atmosphere. Time is passing and it is increasingly difficult to find a corridor to fit the route of this railway that is supposed to be the future. I don't want to remember the story of the Santander-Madrid train, but we also take note. And I think we will also have to talk, as I have been told on the other hand, with the vice president and minister of ecological transition to demand speed in the processing of environmental impact studies, especially in Alar del Rey-Reinosa. But with regard to Torrelavega's underground, I would like to remind you that Minister José Blanco, eleven years ago, announced on drums and platter that he would give a great boost to this initiative and we see how we are now. We don't even have a construction project. Here we have to be very clear. We must have this project completed and auctioned in this legislature and there is less and less. Therefore, I urge you to work with your team to achieve this goal. You have to bid the works in this legislature. We'll talk about Renfe and Surroundings another day.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u108	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. We certainly agree that we would like to be able to move much faster in all the projects and in all the actions we are carrying out, but the processing of the dossiers requires rigour and, of course, we have to ensure that the procedures are carried out and that they are done well. To explain to you, in particular, the projects for which you asked me, in the case of the high-speed line between Palencia and Santander, in the section of Alar del Rey-Nogales-Aguilar-Reinosa, as you indicated, we have forwarded the file to the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge in order to carry out its environmental assessment, which is not simple, it is complex, but it is necessary to obtain the answer DEL, process in which we currently find ourselves. I must also say that in the previous section, between Palencia and Alar del Rey, we are promoting the corresponding projects and works. Two subtrams are already in operation for an amount close to EUR 200 million. In the informative study of the connection between Santander and Bilbao of the cantabrian-Mediterranean corridor, whose inclusion in the basic trans-European network you know well that we support, the phase of study of alternatives, especially from the point of view of functional analysis, is very advanced. In the case of the integration of Torrelavega, it is also pending to obtain the corresponding DIA, and here I must tell you that, since the Convention Follow-up Committee was established and unanimously approved the inclusion of an underground car park, a supplementary study will be necessary, which will of course also delay or at least change the planned planning at source. Finally, I must tell you that last June we also approved the informative study of the near baipás between the lines of metric width Santander-Oviedo and Santander-Bilbao... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA LUZ MARTÍNEZ SEIJO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT IS THE INVERSION PROVIDED FOR BY THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR CASTILLA AND LEON IN THE YEAR 2022 AND WHAT PROGRAMME IS IT FOR? [[File number 180/000760]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u111	Questions to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by María Luz Martínez Seijo, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you will agree with me that investment is fundamental to progress in education, to improve the results and skills of students. I am a Member of Castile and León and therefore I am following with great interest the evolution of my community's educational system and I must say that Castile and León are stagnant in education. [[Rumors and Protests]] It is a community that does not progress at the pace of other autonomous communities. The repetition rate is abusive, being Castilla and León the champion of Spain in baccalaureate in repetition rates. The $2 billion that came from the COVID funds was used to increase teaching staff. This year too funds have come for Castile and León and what has the Board done? Down in the number of templates... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u113	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u114	... and teaching in the autonomous community. And while that happens, we have a number of very important educational needs. It is an autonomous community where there is not yet a free program of textbooks, a community in which inequality is enormous, so the guarantee of equal opportunities is essential, and that is what the Government of Spain is doing with scholarships and study grants. Meanwhile, the Junta de Castilla y León is stagnating; that is, the Junta does much less for the families of Castilla y León than the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] It is an unpopulated community for which, as I said, equality of opportunity is essential. For example, the school enrolment rate for children aged 0 to 3 is the second lowest in the country. What's the board doing? Well, what he's done has been privatizing the places that already exist. That is why I must congratulate the Ministry of Education on the programme from 0 to 3, because what it is doing is creating children's education places where they are needed, mainly in rural areas, not privatizing them, which is what the Board does. And what does the ministry do, what will it do to boost and help in the innovation and training of teachers? Because, of course, what the Board has done so far has been to close all teacher training centres, all in the rural area, where it is already non-existent. That is the People's Party's bet in Castile and León in the rural area. And in vocational training, more than the same: stagnant, with an absolutely unequal and unequal supply, because education and vocational training are concentrated in cities at 85%. That is why, Minister, the aid that can come from the Spanish Government to promote quality and quality is so important... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Martínez Seijo, thank you very much for your question because it allows me to agree with you. [[Rumors]] Indeed, investment in education is a fundamental aspect not only to improve the quality of education, but also to improve the ability of all students, wherever they come from, to have access to this equal opportunity in the field of education. For the Government of Spain the priority in the field of education is absolute and it is demonstrated by the historical investment that we have deployed in the budget for the year 2021-2022, which is obviously also favoring the Government of Castile and León. I have to say, for example, that for this year by the Government of Spain we are going to invest in Castile and León EUR 234 million. Of this EUR 234 million, EUR 110 million will go to scholarships and study grants for young people in Castile and León; EUR 80 million will go to develop vocational training, so that young people in Castile and León will have access to a vocational training place. We have also earmarked €43.4 million to launch children's places from 0 to 3 years or support and reinforcement plans for our students. But, with the investment figures being very important, I think we need to go down to what is truly fundamental, which are our young people and our students, and talk about them, and thanks to the commitment of the Government of Spain during these years 3765 children aged 0 to 3 will have a free children's education place in Castilla y León; 11 300 young people in Castilla y León will have, thanks to the funding of the Government of Spain, a vocational training place, or 45,000 young people in Castilla y León will be able to enjoy a scholarship in Castilla y León thanks to the investment effort being made by the Government of Spain, led by President Sánchez. And since these figures are important, they certainly reach a greater magnitude when we compare them with what the previous People's Party government was doing. I will only give you one figure: if we see the investment in scholarships for 2017-2018 and compare it with the current figure we will see that we have increased the budget for scholarships by 34% or, which is the same, 5000 young people from Castilla and León can enjoy a scholarship thanks to the Government of Spain. In short, when it governs the right in educational matters there are cuts and lack of opportunities, unlike what this government does, which is to generate... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD OF THE IMPACT OF THE INCLUSION OF THE LOBO ON THE LESPER LIST ON THE GANADER AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE AND LEON? [[File number 180/000778]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u118	Questions to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mrs Milagros Marcos Ortega, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u119	That's ridiculous, Mrs. Martinez Seijo. No wonder they don't even love her in Palencia. [[Applauds]] Look, this is your great contribution to the rural world of Castile and León. This is the only one, from too many attacks already, to a small extensive herd in Villarrabé, Palencia; two hundred inhabitants live terrified because, thanks to their policies, there are already more wolf attacks than megas on the Internet. [[shows a photo]] [[A lady MP: What's the wolf coming!]] This is the real animal abuse, the most heartless of all socialist attacks at the heart of our peoples. [[Applauds]] Mr Planas, if no one protects the werewolf farmers, if no one protects the Spaniards of Garzón, Mrs Díaz and her policies and you, moreover, take ten days to deny it and do not even ask for your resignation, why are you a minister of Spain? For what? Who is going to protect farmers and livestock farmers from as much of a predator of the rural world as there is in this government? Are you going to do it, yes or no? [[One Member: Very well]] [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u120	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Marcos, have you read the 4492 pages of Spain's Strategic Plan for the CAP? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Man, what a thing you have!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u122	Mrs. Marcos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u123	You should not have read them to them or to all the farmers who are demonstrating in Spain every day. [[Applauds]] Look, there is neither dignity nor shame left to this Government. Farmers and farmers are all they do is work every day, guarantee jobs and we can all eat. The data is silly: in the north of the Duero, with controlled hunting, there are more wolves and fewer attacks on livestock than in the south, forty times less. Tell me, why do you want the South model for all of Spain? Does it look like a few attacks a day, 40 times more? The only thing they've done is leave the livestock and, if you leave the livestock, you'll tell me who's going to live in the villages. You're playing with people's bread, but you're sick of it. They're sick of their urban ecological battles. They are tired of being deceived by the law of the food chain. They are sick of the government lying to the whole world saying that Spanish meat is of poor quality. But it's that you don't want to protect the wolf, what you're looking for is to get rid of livestock, meat production in Spain, dare say it at once. They prefer laboratory meat. Totally, at this point the Castilians and the Lions already know who the real wolf is and why you put on the lamb skin. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u124	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see you haven't read it to her, Mrs. Marcos. [[Rumors]] But it is not that I have read it, it is that we have written it collectively by the Government of Spain and the seventeen communities of Spain, including those governed by the People's Party, despite their interventions and their interference in this matter, and as a result the CAP will be able to charge all the farmers and farmers in Spain. He's talking about the food chain law. It seems that today you are very interested in the countryside, but you and the lords of VOX did not support the law that allows farmers and farmers to receive decent prices ; historical claim, ask the professional agricultural organizations. [[applause]] The flesh is over; now the wolf is coming. This is an issue, Mrs Marcos, that every month the Ministers of Agriculture of France, Belgium, Germany, Finland and I speak, because it is a complicated, difficult coexistence. I am the Minister of Agriculture and I am at the side of the concerns and concerns of all farmers in Spain, so we have agricultural insurance, we have the EAFRD for control and protection measures, we also have in the new CAP the aid for extensive livestock farming - sheep, goats and cattle - which we have introduced and obviously also the compensation. I already know that this material damage does not cover psychological damage and concern, and I am certainly concerned, as is this Government concerned about it, but obviously this does not solve the problems. Facing it will never solve a problem as complex as this. And I'm glad you didn't mention depopulation, because you said it in your question. That is, in the last thirty-five years of Castile and Leon's history, depopulation by the wolf has accelerated and depopulation by the People's Party government has not accelerated. [[Applauds]] This really is an extraordinary thing.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ISABEL POZUETA FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE Parliamentary Group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: RENEWS THE GOVERNMENT TO RECOGNIZE THOSE THOSE KILLES OF GOODS SIGNED BY CATHOLIC Iglesia? [[File number 180/000767]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u127	Questions to the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Isabel Pozueta Fernández, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u128	Thank you, Madam President. On January 24, we met President Pedro Sánchez, yourself and a representative of the Catholic Church to seal an agreement at the Bishops' Conference, which recognizes that he is not a legitimate owner of 965 properties that he named in his name between 1998 and 2015, and that he will return them. With this agreement, does the Government refuse to recover the tens of thousands of goods illegally registered by the Catholic Church?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u129	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, the Government does not renounce any of these thirty-five thousand assets. What we have done has been a first agreement, a good start; through a sign of identity of this Government, which is dialogue, which is agreements with different, we have managed to get the Catholic Church to recognize that there are a thousand goods belonging to other headlines or to those who do not know who the headline is; therefore, let us value that progress. It is a useful policy example: agreements, dialogue and progress; it also sounds to them, because it is exactly the same pattern as with labour reform. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u131	Mrs. Pozueta.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u132	We are faced with a monumental scandal and more and more voices are demanding to reach the end. We believe that this pact between the Government - ahead of President Sánchez - and the Catholic Church to legalize the appropriation of almost a hundred thousand goods registered by the bishops to his name throughout the State is inconceivable. Only in Navarre are we referring to almost four thousand buildings, communal gardens, pediments, hermits, more than four million square meters usurped to the municipalities by the Catholic Church. Mr Bolaños, we expect a clear answer. What will they do to recover the thousands of goods that the Church continues to hold illegally? And, if not, where will President Sánchez's promise to pass a legislative reform to reverse the registrations practiced by the Catholic Church for having been carried out under a clearly unconstitutional regulation remain? Listen to the heritage associations, which are calling for a legislative reform of the Historic Heritage Act to identify which cultural heritage assets are considered public domain and should be protected from commercial traffic. We ask you to recover as a public good the registration since 1978 putting an end to this unprecedented patrimony, because you do not owe it to the Church - this is a secular state, remember - but to citizenship. This great injustice is being brought to an end in the hands of this Government. We hope they're brave. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u133	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, a thousand things seem to you to be few. Do you know how many are a thousand goods? A thousand more goods than have been recovered in the last twenty-five years, because since the 1998 law - I don't know where the figures you mentioned - have been registered 35,000 goods, of which 20,000 are places of worship and around 14,000 are places outside of worship, and that is where we have started the work of the registration commission. We have focused the work there and have already recovered a thousand goods. You will find the progress insufficient, but let me tell you that in twenty-five years, zero has been recovered and this Government has recovered a thousand. [[Applauds]] And of course the registration committee will continue its work, of course! We are already continuing with that work and we are going to try to do so with dialogue, we are going to try to do so with agreements and we are going to try to keep moving, so that their legitimate owners can have those assets. All the progress is positive, and you cannot question the progress that this Government has made in the area of asset recovery, just as you cannot question other progress that we are going to make tomorrow with labour reform. Look, progress will seem short to you, but it's better than no progress. You, unfortunately tomorrow, are going to vote with the right; you are going to vote with the right to harm the workers of this country. Make him look at it. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON DAVID SERRADA PARIENT, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT IS THE QUANTITY OF INVESTMENTS AND PROJECTS IN THE AUTONOMOUS CASTILLA AND LEON COMMUNITY FINANCED TO THE EUROPEAN FUNDS? [[File number 180/000761]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u135	Question by Mr David Serrada Pariente, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the only wolf you're protecting in Castile and Leon is to the far right, it's to VOX. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is necessary to have the floor to come here today, to the control session to the government, to say that you are supporting the cattle farm of Castile and León and that a lady who was Agriculture Councilwoman in Castile and León should say so. The management of agriculture and the countryside in Castile and León has the following balance - and Mrs Milagros Marcos is co-responsible -: There are 10,000 farms less and 18,000 fewer people in the agricultural system. That's the field protection you guys are doing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] But we are glad that today, at last, the People's Party wants to talk about Castile and Lion in this House. You have been ruling in Castile and Lion for thirty-five years, I say that something will have to do with all the problems you have presented here today. It shames others the exhibition and the defense of Castile and Leon that they have made here today; it shames others, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Since 1987 they have been promising the same things in their electoral programme, the same thing, they have only updated from pesetas to euros. That's all you guys have done. You, who today promise and say you're going to carry the broadband, lie. Broadband will reach the villages of Castile and León thanks to this government and European funds. [[Applauds]] If you want to defend public health in Castile and León, stop closing local offices, because this government, thanks to European funds, will invest more than 10 million euros in the hospital in Salamanca to equip it. That's defending public health. [[Applauds]] It seems a lie, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you, who have so much attacked and are so much moving against European funds, are now using them to solve and save you, because you are not worried about Castile and Lion, the People's Party is concerned about the People's Party. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you the following question, which is fundamental for Castile and León: what is the amount of European funds coming to Castile and León and, thanks to these European funds, what projects will be carried out? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u137	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u138	Thank you, Madam President. The government of Pedro Sánchez is the government that has most invested Castile and León in the history of democracy; the one that has most invested. And I say it with figures. Since Pedro Sánchez is President of the Government, there are 26% more resources for Castile and León, and in the last budget of 2022, more than 1 billion investments compared to the budget of 2021. That's numbers. And this election call, based on absolutely obvious lies from the president of Castile and León to summon, will serve us to speak of Castile and León. That is precisely why we will be able to say here, in this House, that there are 951 million Euros of European funds for Castile and León; over 500 million Euros for hydrogen projects in the regions of León, over 500 million Euros to bet on the reindustrialisation of the regions of León; there are 140 million Euros of digitisation for broadband to reach the municipalities of Castile and León, over a thousand municipalities, 1066 small municipalities to bet on this bet also by the Sánchez Government, and 107 million Euros to bet on the care of the elderly and on public health in Castile and León, which the Government of the People's Party has forgotten there for thirty-five years. Our bet, ladies and gentlemen, is for Castile and León's future, for reindustrialisation, for economic activity, and the European funds are going to get it, and also for ending the depopulation and the problems it poses. In thirty-five years - it has been said in this House today - the government of Castilla y León, of the People's Party, has not been able to reverse the gradual depopulation of Castilla y León. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, are a ballast for Castile and Lion. They're a ballast. [[Applauds]] On this occasion that the president of Castile and León has given us all to talk about Castile and León we will show that his project is exhausted, absolutely exhausted. By the way, instead of dancing with bubbles, do yourself the favor of managing the European funds from the autonomous communities and doing so rigorously, and do not put yourselves in evidence before the European Commission, because you leave Spain in evidence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - the Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migrations, why did he leave families with less serious ills at his post, including a budgetary arrangement for his ministry with the Basque Group? ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000775]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u139	Questions to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr Iñigo Barandiaran Benito, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u140	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. A month ago, his ministry, his Government and my group reached an agreement to incorporate into the budget law an economic item and a concrete measure that consisted of amending article 190 of the General Social Security Act to allow parents, parents of children with serious illnesses, to access this permit not in the age band that was established until that day, which was eighteen years, but up to twenty-three years. Well, it happens, however, that many of those parents whose children had already reached the age of eighteen by 1 January 2022, at the time of the adoption of the Budget Act, have been denied such permission, and, aside from the fact that, in our view, this already implies a breach of that agreement, what happens is that this decision is entailing dramatic consequences for many of those families that we believe should be alleviated. Tell me, Minister, why is this situation taking place and what do you intend to do to resolve it?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u141	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u142	Thank you, President. Mr Barandiaran, allow me first of all to highlight the agreement that we have reached, because we will always agree with you when it comes to making the social security system more equitable, and we not only raise the age from eighteen to twenty-three years for permits in the case of families with seriously ill children, but also extend it to single-parent families and to situations in which the children have been married. That is to say, we have made a very extensive reform which has actually allowed us to double the budget we have devoted to this type of situation in two years' time and to protect a great many more people at the moment. We are already talking about more than 5,000 cases, which seem few, but indeed the situations are particularly delicate and serious. Therefore, we will always agree with you. There is one issue that has to do with a transitional situation in the regimes from one change to another that requires a regulatory correction that we are finalizing to introduce into the norm as soon as we have the opportunity, but indeed the commitment is absolute, I say to you, not only in what you propose, but in more elements that make the system fairer. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u143	Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u144	Minister, it is that we return to the same with you, we always have a technical interpretation that serves us as a barrier to the implementation of the agreements and also to the satisfaction of the object of the legal amendment for which it was intended. Minister, whether or not a legal amendment was needed to implement it, it was at the time of the adoption of the budgets when it was to be completed, and you knew perfectly well the text that has been included in the budget law. It is not to be welcomed that we are at this stage hiding in that technical interpretation, in the need to modify the rules, in order to fulfil the agreement no longer, but the hopes that had been placed by many of those parents in correcting that situation. You tell me that it has spread to many other issues, to many other areas. Of course, that is our vocation, not only to extend it to those areas, but also to extend it to a much older age than has been envisaged for this particular situation so far, and we will not see it. We know that it has a cost, but also, let me tell you, it is a cost which, compared to the total expenditure of Social Security, is a minute; and so it is. In this sense, our scenario is to demand not as long as it fulfills the agreement, but to give solutions, to avoid suffering to these people, to say when and how it will fulfill, because there are people who are currently in a situation of helplessness to which we must respond. Minister, answer these questions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u146	It is by no means a budgetary issue. We have increased the budget from EUR 85 million to EUR 161 million over two years. We are currently protecting families that have serious patients up to twenty-three years old. There is a problem of transition between regimes that needs to be resolved, and that is it. Honestly, when you look at the photograph of everything we've done on this front, where we were where we are now, it seems to me that what you're proposing we're solving. It is a specific issue and, indeed, there will be some case, but we do not know that there are many cases and we are trying to solve them as we do with everything, but to make this a category, sincerely, I did not expect it. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MANUAL ARRIBAS MAROTO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE MEASURES OF THE NEW PENSION LAW AND IMPACT ON THE CASTILLE POPULATION And Lion? [[File number 180/000759]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u147	Question by Mr Manuel Arribas Maroto, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u148	Thank you, President. We started the week with excellent news for Spain: the revaluation of pensions according to the CPI; a very important news for our whole country, but especially for the almost 600,000 pensioners of my land, Castile and León. Once again, the difference between the right-wing governments and the Socialist Party governments is evident. While Mr. Mariano Rajoy's government increased pensions by 50 cents, Pedro Sánchez's government has raised the minimum pensions to 74 euros a month. But the People's Party does not just abandon our elders in terms of pensions. We see it in my land, in Castile and León, where he constantly abandons them in health care, where we see that day after day the medical clinics are closed in the rural environment; closures that not only affect our elders, but also suffer our young people who, in addition to the lack of opportunities, are forced to leave our land in search of a more certain and promising future. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the idea that this time of inequality will end on February 13, because the Castilians and Leonians will go back to the streets, they will go back to the polls, as they did in May 2019, to vote for change, because our land deserves a government of hope and of the future, but above all it deserves a decent government, and that decent government will come from the hands of the Socialist Party and Luis Tudanca. [[Applauds]] Our land deserves to be fulfilled and those thirty-five years of disgovernment abandoned. We have fulfilled in the Government of Spain and we will fulfill next February 13 at the Junta de Castilla y León. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you what assessment the Government makes of the measures of the new pension law and what their impact on Castile and León will be. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u149	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u150	Your Honor, as you have said, there are a very large number of pensioners in Castile and León. Castilla y León is one of the oldest autonomous communities in Spain, one in four citizens in Castilla y León is a pensioner. Therefore, all this group of citizens and also future pensioners since 2013 have lived in the zozóbra that was the reform of 2013. The 2013 reform involved a very significant reduction of pensions on them and, in addition, a weakening of social security, a discharge of the Reserve Fund which added concern and uncertainty about their future pensions. That is what we have corrected with the new pension reference framework. Pensioners in Spain and Castile and León know that they will maintain the purchasing value of their pensions at all times in the future, and have already been able to see it this first year in which we have applied the formula that we agreed with all the social partners and that it assumes that, regardless of how inflation will evolve in the year 2022, in 2023 and 2024, their pensions are absolutely guaranteed and revalued with the CPI - there is no better formula to transmit certainty - and, at the same time, we have rebalanced the situation of weakness that we had in Social Security. We find ourselves with a social security deficit of 1.7% when we arrive, in 2021 the social security deficit has been of 1%, in 2022 we will leave the deficit at half a point and at the end of the parliamentary term the social security will be in budgetary equilibrium. We have extraordinarily strengthened social security and this is another way of passing on certainty to the pensioners of Spain and to the pensioners of Castile and León. This is the Government's commitment to the pensioners, who also respond to the agreements of the Toledo Pact, which responds to the agreement with the social partners, with all the social partners, on how the new pension framework should be defined in the future. That is why I believe that we can only, in fact, convey that confidence and tranquillity that all the pensioners of Castile and León must have in their future pensions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u151	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government through the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge to end depopulation in Spain. For your defence, Mrs. Trias Gil has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, after the unfortunate spectacle of the use of the control session for acts of electoral propaganda, we have to do our part: to represent the citizens who voted for us throughout Spain. [[Applauds]] Here only retirees and civil servants remain, explains a sorian of forty-five years who went to Madrid to study the career and never returned. In press we read: Villages of Valladolid without children. We're doomed to disappear. Half a hundred municipalities did not have a registered person under five years of age in January 2021. Another: Leonese transport calls for measures against rising prices. Each truck spends 1200 euros more per month of fuel than a year ago; the field workers are sick of it. We, just over a week ago, joined Madrid's macro-demonstration against its policies, which led to their disappearance. [[The Lord]] Laurean, a farmer from Palencia, warns us: The wolf's problem is very fat; the danger is the disappearance of the cattle, not the wolf, because there are many who have to leave it because of the wolves. I had sheep and I took them because the wolf was tying it up, and there are cattle farms that can disappear because of that. And it goes on: If the wolf continues to multiply, this way you can run the risk even of attacking people, if people stand here, in the field. What they say - Laureano tells us - of emptied Spain... Spain is not emptied, it is vacillated and forgotten. [[Applauds]] In Ávila, my dear province, there's a great deal of untapped potential. Ten years ago it took him to arrive by train thirty to forty minutes less than what it takes today, because, although it seems incredible, it is a journey that today lasts two hours. Or the tremendous case of the AVE, which promised the People's Party government twenty years ago and then re-promised and never fulfilled. Promises and only promises that, of course, no one believes anymore, something that the Castilians and Leons should not forget, nor should they forget the restrictions on freedom, the imposition of curfews and harassment on the hoteliers, or the toll on the highway, which today costs 20 euros round and round, which the users have been paying for forty years and which still, with their Government, will have to continue paying. Or the shortage of bus service throughout the province. It could continue with health, with the languishing industry and with the slow death of local trade. This is just a sample of Spain abandoned and silenced. A sepulchral silence reigns in many of its squares. There are no children or families, and the elderly, who are very old, hardly leave the house. Spain is in a very serious demographic situation that threatens its survival. The loss of population and its ageing are accelerated each year. In Galicia, Asturias and Castile and Leon die more than double the number of people born. In Zamora, Leon, Asturias and Soria the proportion is three deaths per birth. If current birth and life expectancy rates are maintained, by 2055 there will be more people of seventy-eight years of age than people in any other age group. The demographic winter is a cancer that affects our entire nation, but it is advancing in some territories faster than in others, those of Spain abandoned by you, political leaders of the PSOE and the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And it is that the economic situation of these regions is in free fall, because without children there is no future, without demographic growth there is no economic growth and this economic downturn makes investment, something vital, linked to birth, less attractive for that Spain so worthy and necessary and of which we are so proud. Let us see the example of Castile and León, the cradle of our history and where the People's Party has ruled for thirty-five years. He is a leader in depopulation; almost 200,000 Spaniards have had to leave this region since you ruled, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. He is a leader in expelling young university students; a punishment of exile for being Castilian-Leonese. The Community of Castile and León is the main expelling zone for qualified persons from all over Spain. He is the leader in the ageing and ageing population; the second oldest region in Europe after Asturias. 26% of Castilians and Leonians are sixty-five years old or older, and 36% are over eighty years old, many of them dependent, with neurodegenerative problems and insufficient care due to the large dispersal of the population living in small villages with little inhabitants and without services. Because depopulation causes one to enter a vicious circle in which, among other things, social services worsen dramatically. And the worst, ladies and gentlemen, minister, leader in solitude. Castilla y León is Spain's second largest autonomous community with more people living alone, no less than 30%. Our elders, those who have taught us the value of work and family, those who preserve our traditions, our roots, our cultural heritage are alone and abandoned, scattered and poorly cared for. Grandparents who have seen how their families, children and grandchildren have had to leave the village and its province to look for work and to build a life. Minister, the repopulation of rural Spain is crucial to ensuring prosperity and territorial vertebration. The ministry to which you represent, of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge, will not solve this problem because it is only a branch of the globalist elites who want to impose concepts such as ecological transition, global strategies, resilience and sustainable development goals, bono masks of the perverse 2030 Agenda. [[Applauds]] We, on the other hand, propose another life to the Spaniards, to the children, to the young and to the elderly. And with us, for the moment, half Europe, that of the sovereign nations and soon much of America, because we must regain our national sovereignty, defend our lifestyle, our customs, our traditions, our history, our roots and our borders; also our industry and our system of sovereign production, which allows us to live from what we produce and not be subject to the unfair competition of third parties. We have a duty to think and to propose all the measures that are necessary for companies and entrepreneurs to be able to establish and maintain themselves in those territories, for example with favourable taxation. Because we defend equality between Spaniards and we are going to face the insurgency of the autonomous state, which creates first and second Spaniards, which prevents water from reaching where it is needed and with a fair distribution and, above all, which penalizes the regions most loyal to Spain and its identity. The Popular Party in Castile and León is what the PSOE has been in Andalusia, a client and caciquil network that prevents the growth of the provinces to have them controlled: the power at the cost of the Spanish. Today we have just witnessed a farce in which the People's Party shows that it is against the PSOE, when in reality it is subject to the same dictates of the globalist agenda, and defending that agenda is compatible with defending the true interests of the Spaniards and our sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, or Agenda Spain or Agenda 2030; or the interests of the Spanish and Spain or the interests of the globalist elites; or our traditions, our culture, our roots, our nation or the existential vacuum. [[Applauds]] And at this moment I allow myself to address our young people, because we are here for them and for those children who listen to us, many of whom cannot even vote. Dear young people, don't be fooled. The promise of an easy and subsidized life is a deception to have you controlled and subdued, to make you unable to build something for yourself. Don't let them fool you. All those who now rule, bad than good, have grown up in a family that no one questioned, because it was always there, with its lights and with its shadows. They want to leave you orphans so that you have no choice but to fall into the hands of the state. Dear young people, I have not resigned you, connected with your roots, connected with your Spanish heart, the same one that encouraged Don Pelayo, the Cid, Augustine of Aragon, Teresa of Jesus, Blas of Lezo, Pedro Claver, Ignatius of Loyola, John of the Cross, and from there draw strength and illusion to build a family. Enthusiasts, lovers of life, do not be afraid to love, do not flee from effort and sacrifice when it comes to achieving an ideal, a greater good such as building a family, getting a job or raising children. Do not renounce to spend your time listening to your parents, your grandparents, your great-grandfathers; their legacy is our history, do not abandon them. Abandon selfishness, the great deception of our time. Do not prove to your elders the joy of a grandchildren who break into their solitude and, above all, do not deprive yourselves of the possibility of a successful life. Do not be deceived, dear young people, you deserve a family, a job and a homeland; do not resign. [[Applauds]] Minister, the solution is to give our young people opportunities and boost birth, not to import millions of irregular immigrants. Other European nations, such as Poland and Hungary, have already done so. Hungary, for example, has created a strong family support system, achieving a very significant increase in birth rate. Do not be ashamed to recognize that the family is the basic cell of society, the natural place where children are born and where the bonds that last all life are generated; where strong, free and self-owned virtuous people grow. But submitted as is his ministry and all the Government that represents the dictates of the supranational agendas, it is difficult for them to understand that the family is the cornerstone of civilization, and must be promoted and protected if birth is to be promoted. To this end, Minister, you must change false stereotypes and stop presenting family and marriage as oppressive institutions and children as burdens. Lately, not only do they tell us barbarities like cows pollute, but even children pollute, and that to curb climate change the solution is to have fewer children. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, be aware of the serious problem we have in our hands. The Spaniards want to eat products from the land and not synthetic meat. We want safe villages, full of families, not wolf herds, where castles, walls and temples do not fall to pieces. We want to see happy children, with their parents and grandparents, filling schools and parks, and not desolate villages. We want young people with work, full of confidence in their future, and not sunk into a senseless life and subjected to the penalty of banishment. In short, we want the Spaniards to be proud of their homeland. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u153	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u154	President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are attending an extraordinary session in this plenary, a session that devotes most of its time to one of the great problems of our country, to one of the most relevant elements of inequality and that has worsened over time without the tension it deserved, and I believe that this is important and I hope that it will be maintained because it is about finding consensus, institutional support and respect for people. An institutional responsibility that requires a serious diagnosis, an institutional diagnosis that requires thinking about how to provide opportunities, how to fight for services for the elderly, women and real children to exist throughout the territory. Spain is not emptied, but it does suffer depopulation rates in its regions, in its autonomous communities, in the interior areas, which exacerbate the difficulty of finding solutions and opportunities for all. I believe that in this debate, in which the government has assumed since 2018 the unfulfilled commitment by Rajoy's previous cabinet to launch a state policy in response to the demographic challenge, we have made a great deal of progress, both in discussing concrete proposals. In our view, it is a challenge of the quality of democracy, it is a challenge in terms of inequality between Spaniards that requires response from all the institutions and, in that context, I understand that you are not talking about depopulation or services or lack of opportunities. It even ridicules the situation in which many Spaniards live. We talk about ensuring the equality of all people, living where they live, generating opportunities and improving the quality of life, responding and respecting the past, the local characteristics of each of our territories but thinking, above all, about the quality of life of people, especially the most vulnerable. And this is not solved by eliminating taxes on the richest elite, nor is it solved with sophistication about how many children each woman must have, regardless of employment opportunities and her decisions about where and how she wants to live. That equity in the provision of services is not dependent on population density is important. That a young person does not think about his or her professional development in other words that he or she only stays in his or her village or does not have professional development is not a solution. That a woman does not believe that she is not protected from gender-based violence in her municipality is extraordinarily serious. This, by the way, you never talk about. That our elders don't leave their homes because they think they won't be well cared for is a very serious problem. Living and undertaking in rural areas is not a heroic act and is also our goal. Mothers, children, elderly abandoned to their fate and young people without alternatives is not a solution. The demographic challenge needs the political commitment of all. That is why we think it is a country agreement, which we need to discuss on these issues and, for that, the work that can be promoted from the Territorial House, that is, from the Senate, is fundamental. Institutionalizing the debate and facilitating a public debate on these issues and their answers are crucial. But cantonalist positions, micro solutions, thinking only in the short term by avoiding the underlying problems do not lead us anywhere, do not transform our model, not rebalancing, do not solve those problems that have been settled over time and do not facilitate the generation of opportunities. It's not about melancholy from the past, it's about consolidating opportunities. Therefore, we believe that we must fight against that vision of the rural environment anchored in a bubble of other times with the Cid Campeador, without there being a future of prosperity ahead for all. That is why we must treat all the options with the utmost respect, thinking, of course, that the primary sector is crucial in strengthening the options in rural areas, but that there are many other things that also compute so that this can be so. Internal Spain does not need populisms, Your Honor, it does not need demagoguery; it needs to remember them much more than because of the political interest of the point or because of the fact that it has a banner, it needs constancy, commitment, action, resources, it needs institutional participation, it needs respect for people, it needs to guarantee services for everyone. The intensity and extent of inequalities expressed in demographic data of depopulation are bloody. No one like Spain has experienced this situation with a low density, with the exit of young people and women from our villages and areas of interior that demands to deal with this situation with great commitment and, in particular - as I said before - to distance itself from all the others in Castile and León. Demographic challenges are not the cause, but the consequence of an unbalanced socio-economic and territorial development model and we must correct it. The very hard pandemic that has hit us so hard also allows us to reorient the recovery with this consolidated vision at the institutional level and at the level of social demand to facilitate the recovery of this gap, the reduction of that gap that existed between the Spaniards living in the Spanish interior and the Spaniards living in metropolitan areas. This is what we do in the Recovery Plan: transfer diagnoses, proposals with respect, accompanying, seeking to take advantage of dynamism, cohesion, proposals that leave the territory and that everyone can be free to decide their future without risking the possibility of having different opportunities. We have promoted the National Strategy against the demographic challenge, which was the central point on the agenda of the Salamanca Conference of Presidents after many years of inaction. Faced with the abandonment of the rural environment, in the face of proposals that seek to push back our peoples and our women in particular, or that only involve unsustainable activities and no future, we think that people should be placed in the centre, respecting the environmental limits, paying back the efforts made by our neighbours in the interior of Spain to take care of those collective goods that we can all enjoy. We have approved a plan of 130 measures to meet the demographic challenge so that the recovery will reach all small municipalities with an investment of more than EUR 10 billion. Let me put it in context: the sum of the transfers from the General Administration of the State to the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants between 2011 and 2020 was 10,562 million euros, i.e. an equivalent amount associated only with the Recovery Plan; the sum of the transfers from the autonomous communities to these small municipalities in the same period was 10,062 million euros, i.e. an equivalent amount only associated with the Recovery Plan, plus direct investments from all municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants in the last eight years. You ask - in the future - what the government will do. Well, the government is already doing it. Therefore, I think it is important, in line with the comments I have had this morning to highlight, to recall some of the axes that frame the set of actions that are a reflection of the requests, of the demands of our neighbours in rural Spain. First, to strengthen mobility and connectivity in the territory, complementing universal digital coverage throughout the territory with the deployment of both ultra-fast broadband and mobile telephony, thanks to the Single Programme for Universal Population Coverage in 2025, improving physical accessibility in the territory, which means ensuring sustainable and secure mobility, seeking that, through the Rural Mobility Table, led by Mitma and with the participation of autonomous communities and local authorities, we can facilitate mobility solutions in low population density environments. This does not mean thinking on the same terms as forty, fifty, thirty or twenty years ago, it means taking advantage of all the opportunities that we can have today thanks to digitisation, territorial cohesion or sustainability as the axis of the recovery plan. We have also worked on the energy transition of mobility, the electrification of transport, with a plus for our neighbours from indoor areas. Both Moves III and other calls incorporate an additional chapter in support of those neighbors registered in small municipalities. But we know that the key is the provision of services, the maintenance and consolidation of services in the territory. This implies working with all the administrations: with the autonomous administrations, with the local administrations, including parliaments, with communes and districts and, of course, with municipalities. In the face of the deteriorating financial capacity of the municipalities, in the face of proposals to reduce income to the upper classes in communities affected by depopulation, we believe that the fiscal system and the financing of public services is the best solution: child education, as we spoke before; clinics, as we spoke before, and many other issues related to public services such as those relating to the maintenance of the Civil Guard barracks in conditions or the search for access to education, including higher education in municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, through the network of the UNED public university. We work to maintain basic services with almost four thousand municipalities with pharmacy or more than five hundred with kit, with more than 2,600 small municipalities that still have banking offices and should find equivalent solutions, with post offices, with the basic provision of services thanks to the municipal offices of Justice - in processing, by the way, in this Chamber - with the renovation of barracks, sanitary facilities, health centers and rural offices or the offer of restoration of municipal markets. We work for housing and the urban agenda. There was a change in demographic dynamics in the context of the pandemic. Today there are many people looking for housing and in small municipalities it is not always easy. The extension of telework, the quality of housing, the rehabilitation of existing houses, social rent are capitals in cities that lost more than 150,000 inhabitants in 2020, but also in towns that have an opportunity to grow, as they have done in villages with less than 1,000 inhabitants since 2020 with more than nine thousand additional inhabitants surveyed. And this has to be supported. We have to support it with public resources, with coordinated action with local authorities and autonomous communities, thanks to the newly approved State Housing Plan, providing special gratification or support to those who want to live in small municipalities; or with the Energy Rehabilitation of Buildings Program, especially for municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants; or with the local action plans of the Spanish Urban Agenda; or with the specific call for Sustainable Urban Development, DUS 5000, which has received, like no other, requests from a huge number of municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants in the first three days of the call; from the initial 75 million we had to increase to 325 million. But we must also support it with public infrastructure in water, sanitation and purification, in access to energy and public lighting or in economic diversification and job creation with the deconcentration of new institutions of the State Administration, with support for diversification in those regions that have been focusing their activity on coal, seeking generational change in those areas where the ageing of farmers puts the continuity of activity at risk.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u155	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u156	I'm done, President, thank you. But also with the support of innovation and teleworking centres in areas at risk of depopulation or with specific calls for entrepreneurship and innovation in the territory. Many of these measures will have to be maintained over many years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that debates on this matter are paramount, but consensus on this matter, beyond the birth rate or fertility rate of our women, is also paramount. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u157	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Trias Gil has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u158	Minister, less rhetoric and more words. Facts, none, you just said it. [[Applauds]] You are testimony to your own words. The truth is that paper supports everything. Pay more attention to the people of the countryside and follow their advice, tread the ground. There are slogans from farmers who say, 'From the country to the house'. Well, hey, from the country to Congress. Go to the camp, listen to them and then legislate based on what you've heard. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, it's not that difficult, it's a matter of listening. It is also a question of listening to each other when we are here in the Chamber. I have talked about a whole series of issues that you have not answered. You have told me that I have ridiculed the situation of the people of Spain. It's just that you haven't gone, there you can see that you haven't gone. That is the dramatic situation of our farmers, our farmers and many areas that are running out of population. I haven't made any suffamation about the children that every woman can have. However, I have addressed a very important issue that you, logically, are unable to address, what is the problem of birth. We have to bet on birth, we have to bet on policies that favor family and birth, but that goes against their ideological and globalist policies. [[Applauds]] In fact, we have already asked some questions in this regard. What measures will the Government take to promote birth in all regions of Spain? And you have answered us - and I read literally - 'Policies aimed only at promoting fertility involve perpetuating the gender stereotypes that must be combated, as they lead to an increase in gender gaps and support a reductionist, reproductive-oriented vision of women'. That, ladies and gentlemen, is your vision of motherhood and women. [[Applauds]] You have to put an end to as many complex policies as you have in other European countries. I'll tell you what gynecologists tell their patients in Hungary when they announce a new pregnancy. They don't tell you: you're pregnant, do you want to have it? They tell you: you're pregnant, congratulations. A positive and celebrative vision of motherhood is transmitted and lived. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, especially those who are going to vote against those people who are just praying in front of abortion clinics tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, minister, the truth is that there are so many things to tell you, that we will see if I can put order. We have gone to listen to the people of the countryside. In fact, the 52 of VOX, when we make proposals not of law, proposals of law, parliamentary questions, is not that we are there in the dispatch telling to see what we think, or to see this news. No, we've gone to our provinces, we've talked to people and, surprisingly, people - no matter how much they are hoteliers, merchants, farmers and farmers -, all the people we see, are surprised that a congressman goes and talks to them. But what have they done? What have you done for forty years of democracy in this country? [[Applauds]] Real Spain, that of the countryside, has been marginalized by the media for years and ignored by politicians, by you and by you, silenced in the chatter, in the dishes; there is no talk of family, of well-being, of opportunities, of prosperity or of the future. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] In fact, I think you will also have to talk to one of the Members who spoke this morning, who said that Spain must be populated. That goes against their policies, as we have already commented. You in your answer - it was predictable, wasn't it? - were going to talk about mobility, connectivity and child education. But for who, if there are no children. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I was going to talk about consulting. Yes, clinics are missing, because for the few children we lack pediatricians; in my province there are fewer and fewer pediatricians. Older people - who are more and more in need of a lot of care - have fewer and fewer services. Energy transition of mobility, they want the Spaniards not to understand them when you speak. Maintaining and consolidating the provision of services, but if they have not done so until now, why do we have to think that they will do so now? Finally, we really come to bring hope to Spain and to tell all Spaniards that it is possible to live with hope and that we have the right to another future. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u159	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u160	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, do you really talk to women living in rural Spain and what they tell you is that they want to have children, many children, and they don't need services or support or anything because they want to have children and they don't leave them? It's kind of absurd what you're saying, isn't it? [[Applauds]] Because the women with whom we speak, and I think they represent the vast majority, vote for those who vote, from rural Spain, what they talk about is the frustration of feeling alone, without services, without educational services, without clinics; the difficulties they must face when children reach the age of the Baccalaureate and have to leave the villages and, therefore, often it is they themselves who leave the people in order not to leave them alone, because the division of the family is not even economically viable. They talk about the difficulties in maintaining digital connectivity; about the difficulties in having a decent job, a decent salary that really makes them independent and to be able to count on all the opportunities that anyone wants to count on to make the decision they want at all times, and they thank the law of shared ownership so that the space of agricultural activity does not grow from parents to children without ever passing through those who work in the countryside, who are often women; about the need for support in order to be able to diversify the activities that can be developed in any of our peoples, so that they do not necessarily have to be all workers in the primary sector, but that young children or women can devote themselves to other things if they want and, therefore, of the need to have support in the form of services of very varied furry. There are four vectors in which you have to work simultaneously and for a very long time and in which they are not worth, as I said before, soufflamas. It is culture, it is heritage, it is history, it is agriculture and it is livestock, but there are many more things in which the role of women is crucial. Women who cannot feel alone, who cannot feel helpless, who cannot feel abandoned and who cannot be treated only as a fundamental element for reproduction and birth. Of course, the decision to be a mother is important, but of course we all want, when we decide to be mothers, to have the support of society to develop our professional career, to choose where we want to live and to dedicate the best of our effort to our children in the time of their education and in the time when they live with us, and therefore the issues that we ask ourselves every day. [[applause]] That is what we need: to understand that there are no two types of people, those in rural and urban areas, or that, by definition, the problem of rural areas is exclusively that there are no more children, because we have to ask ourselves why there are no children, why the population is ageing, or what dramatic situations the elderly have to face when consulting, when there is no geriatric or care support services for the elderly and who should provide these services; why the quality of life of our peoples should be much better in terms of care, in terms of services, in terms of connectivity and in terms of access to housing worthy of what is happening today, and why it is crucial that each of us feel like citizens of the first and that there is no division in which some may already feel hurt or with lack of confidence in the institutions because we think that they are citizens of the second. This is the great evil of our democracy that we have to fight at this time, not with stereotypes, with serious work, with budgets. It is not talk, it is resource, it is action, it is a fine rain that has to be maintained for many years. So, please, less strange flags and we understand that precisely that 2030 Agenda which you deny so much and which is not a communist invention, but one of the best contributions and with the greatest consensus on the part of all nations, is precisely to put people at the centre to ensure a much more just level of prosperity and equity within an extraordinarily short period of time that requires us all to work a lot from here to 2030 and beyond. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u161	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the policies of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration in relation to AUTOMOUS WORKERS. [[File number 172/000166]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u162	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the policies of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration in relation to self-employed workers. For your defence, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u163	Very good morning. Look, I can't understand that unemployment rises in January and the government celebrates it, that 521 self-employed people had to close their business in January and the government celebrates it; I can't understand that two hundred thousand jobs were destroyed in January and the government celebrates it, that 17,000 businesses or 16 164 self-employed people had to close their business in January and that you are celebrating it; we don't understand it. [[Applauds]] What we do understand is the nerves of the Socialist bench, that we do understand. Let's talk first about that fair and robust recovery that Mr Sánchez promised, because the economy in 2020 fell by 11%. In the State General Budgets for 2021 you said that we will grow by 9.8%, but then you arrived, you were amended, and you said that 6.5%, but you had to get the INE with the discounts and tell us that Spain grew only 5%, once again disassembling your lies and proving that your growth forecasts are still false. And I ask you, Minister: do you maintain that growth in 2022 will be 7%? Because no national or international body shares this government's predictions, because we are at the back of recovery, at the back of Europe, and it is that Mr Sánchez, like a bad student, is going to be a year short to get us to the level of the rest of the European countries. And why? Well, for their bad policies, they're billing the Spaniards. Look around, the German Chancellor will lower taxes by 30 billion, and Draghi in Italy by 10 billion. Self-employed workers have been hit twice, they have been hit by the economic effects of the pandemic, it is true, but also by the government's forgetfulness, because this government rules against self-employed people. The self-employed were already suffering especially from the political blockade of Mr Sánchez and his partners, since before even the COVID we saw how 70% of 2019's growth was halted compared to the previous year. Thus, the self-employed have been suffering for nearly four years from the desidiy and abandonment of a Government that does not value the weight they have on the economic and labour market of this country, because the Government does not like the self-employed because they do not depend on it. Since March 14, 2020, most had to close, many have definitely closed their doors as they could not bear the accumulated losses. We've got 110 000 out of business, 4534 in Castile and León. What's going to happen to them, Minister? Are you guys gonna have to close up? You're sending 110,000 self-employed people to the street? You're leaving 110,000 families at the stake? We ask in this House, and it was also approved in the Labour Committee, which in revenue 0,quota 0. But the Government, as a proposal by the People's Party, has not approved it, has not taken it into account. Can you tell me why, Minister, if it was approved in this House in the Labour Committee? Let us talk about direct aid, which we in the People's Party have been asking for for for over a year. When they finally approve of them, they do so with such a fierce system to charge them that almost no one has actually received them, but they did reach other companies, for example, Plus Ultra. The self-employed wonder why they - 90% of the self-employed - have not received a single aid. If you cannot access them, tell me what these aids are for. The autonomous give a final suspension to the direct aid of the Government of Spain, 2.8 out of 10. At the moment, what the Spanish self-employed need is access to aid in order to continue their business, and the Government, instead of making their access more flexible, is dedicated to putting sticks on the wheels. Let's talk about European funds. What we do know about European funds is that they are digital, because they give them to the finger, in a discretionary way, favoring some governments above others. Our president, Pablo Casado, demanded and continues to demand an independent authority, that there be objective criteria of distribution without attending to the party that governs in every autonomy or every city. Minister, the other day in Castile-La Mancha, the entrepreneurs told you - and I read it in text - that they were uneasy because European funds do not arrive. I don't tell you, the businessmen in Castilla-La Mancha told you. And you told them that Spain is going faster, but going faster is being in the tail van of economic recovery? Is that going faster? [[Applauds]] He also told them that there will be a big acceleration in the coming months, but how big? Because the only thing we have seen is that their economic forecasts are becoming more and more dwindling. How many European aid have the self-employed or the real economy received? The ICO investment line has also been a failure and from April or May one million autonomous will have to return ICO credits. And I ask you: do you think that with your sandstones you will have liquidity to return them? This year, in order to end the self-employed even more, with the entry into force of these General State Budgets, you have raised the contribution bases by 1.7%, which means a further increase in the contribution, an increase in the contribution of between 96 and 295 euros, depending on whether the self-employed person is a natural or corporate person. But in addition, to help, we have had the CPI shot, in record number, Mr Escrivá, since the 1990s. You said this climb will be transitory, but how transitory? Because Minister Calviño in March 2020 said - and I read textually - that the economic impact of coronavirus would be transitory and insignificant. I don't know, with that of transitory his government gives us a little bit of fear. It is also unsustainable for any self-sustaining person that energy has been fired, e.g. 72% electricity and 24% fuel. How autonomous is it able to resist this? How autonomous is it able to resist that olive oil has risen by 26 % and that sheep by 21 %? You really think you can handle this? Because you're squeezing them, you're suffocating them, you're mistreating them. [[Applauds]] This is real Spain. Do you really think they're helping real Spain? Do you know what ATA's last barometer says? That the rise of taxes and the rise of light are the main situations that endanger the survival of business. Of course, 521 self-employed have closed the day during the month of January, which is why you are where you are. But you are wrong, you continue to raise taxes and energy and give the self-employed a twist further with that new proposal for a real income contribution. You have not had to read what the self-employed who have not recovered, 66% of them, or that one in two self-employed will not recover until 2023, or that one in three continues to suffer from late payment. But you give them another stack, a hatchet, that the only thing that is going to produce is ruin and desolation because eight out of every ten self-employed are against the rise of the quote base. Whatever you say, eight out of ten is against it. [[Applauds]] This is not the time to present this measure, they charge themselves with the freedom to choose, they do not protect those who least enter, and they seem to respond only to a collecting desire. Those who enter more than 1100 euros lose with the reform of the Government. The climb may be multiplied by up to four, 40%. Is this progressive, Mr. Escriva? This is a shame. The rise is going to affect 1.8 million autonomous, when the decrease is only going to affect 1.4 million, with a ridiculous 10 % reduction. This you say that you pay more those who earn the most is going to take the middle class of Spain and many workers ahead because the government claims that an autonomous who earns 1900 euros a month pays a fee of 596 euros, more than double what it pays today. They're going to disincentive the enterprise. This would be very negative for young people, who have an unemployment rate of 30%, twice as much as the European average. And you are far from paving the way for the self-employed, because they are striving to put more obstacles on them: new sandstones, new taxes, quotas and less and less aid. I am an Abulense, from Castile and León, and I am going to ask you one thing: that you do not demonize sectors such as hospitality, tourism, commerce, beet, agriculture, livestock and the meat sector. Behind them are autonomous, and Mr Garzón, you and your Government are committed to discrediting the productive sectors of my land. You know what I tell you? More chop and less Garzón. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez is also undermining my land, because he does not pay VAT Castile and León, because he marginalises us in the distribution of European funds, because he has despised us in the General Budgets of the State, and now you want to raise the contributions to the 14 163 autonomous Abulenses, to the 190 468 autonomous Castile and León. The autonomous young Abulenses have come out, the Abulense trade, the tourism sector, to tell Sánchez that this is a harassment; the Spanish, the Abulenses, who work in the countryside, in the trade, in the transport, in the hotel industry, in all kinds of services. But look, in the face of the attacks of President Sánchez, there are the aid of the governments of the People's Party, such as President Alfonso Fernández Mañueco, that if Sánchez raises the quotas to the autonomous in Castilla and León will improve the aid; that if Sánchez and you raise those quotas to the autonomous, Mañueco commits zero quota for new autonomous; if Sánchez raises taxes, in Castilla and León, with Mañueco, they fall, in line with the proposals of President Casado: lower taxes, greater flexibility, less bureaucracy, flat rate for the autonomous, postponement in the return of ICO loans, shock plan for tourism, Austrian backpack. The autonomous are not alone, the People's Party is at their side. Sánchez must take a step back, and you must take a step back or at least talk to his interlocutors, such as the autonomous ones, and not despise them. We are clear that the present and the future go hand in hand with support for entrepreneurs and in particular for self-employed people. Supporting self-employed people is supporting job creation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u164	Thank you. [[The President took the Chair.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeded to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u165	I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u166	The truth is that their intervention has proved to me to be somewhat 'perplexing', because self-employed workers have been particularly concerned about this government, and in an extraordinarily differential way with previous governments. I think it is appropriate to review, through comparison of facts and not with words or anecdotes, how the Administration, in a differential way, as I have said, has addressed this crisis for the self-employed in relation to the previous crisis. Always negotiated with all self-employed associations, Social Security has deployed several types of extraordinary benefits designed to protect the income of the self-employed affected, and to avoid the loss of human capital that would have entailed the complete abandonment of their activity in the face of the impossibility of working under normal conditions. Many of you ridiculed these performances by saying that very few could access them, generating irresponsible uncertainty to this collective - there are the hemerotecas - who was going through a particularly difficult time. Well, more than one and a half million self-employed people benefited from these benefits, almost half of all self-employed people in Spain, and we have dedicated resources to this during the entire pandemic of EUR 10.5 billion. As I say, this type of benefit has never existed in any previous crisis, and we all know that this is not the first time that the self-employed have gone through a crisis, right? The results of the deployment of this protection policy are clear. We have all managed not only that the number of self-employed workers has not fallen in relation to the pre-pandemic situation, but that almost two years after the first state of alarm we have 57 000 more self-employed in February 2020. If you think so, let's compare this to what happened in the last crisis. Do you know how the number of autonomous people evolved in the first two years of the crisis that governed the People's Party? Between December 2011 and December 2013, 105,000 self-sustaining posts were lost in Spain. Throughout the previous crisis Spain lost half a million autonomous people, one in seven, a destruction of employment and intolerable human capital. And out of this half million, seven years later, in 2018, only half of the job had been recovered. The scars of that crisis and how it was managed for the self-employed we still notice today. [[Rumors]] Doing nothing to protect the self-employed when economic circumstances prevent them from working has very serious consequences for this group, but also for all of us. This time we have acted in an absolutely different way. In this crisis we have not lost self-employed workers, we have won 57 000 workers; these are the facts. To this day, we continue to protect the self-employed with extraordinary benefits. In January, 108 000 of them continue to benefit from extraordinary benefits by the pandemic, and not, as you say, because they are active or closed: of the 108 000, today, only 200 - I insist, 200 - autonomous have their activity totally suspended, 200, because we have deployed a very important protection that does not cover only the self-employed who have stopped their business because of the pandemic, but we cover all those who are active but who need it. In addition to those 108 000 who receive a benefit compatible with their activity, an additional 116 000 self-employed persons who in January have seen their contributions reduced by 25%, even if they have fully recovered their activity, to facilitate their transition. This is to protect the self-employed. Unlike what happened in the last recovery, we're still like this and we're going to continue like this. These are the facts once again. We are now working on a reform of the special scheme for self-employed social security workers so that the system works better for the self-employed, that it adapts better to the changing reality it faces and that, ultimately, it improves the protection that Social Security offers to this group throughout its life. This modernization of the self-employed system, with which we are always working with all the associations and all the social partners, we do so in order to fulfil three mandates: the first mandate is the fourth recommendation of the Toledo Pact, adopted by this House by a very large majority, including the votes of the People's Party, which explicitly says - I will read it -: measures will be promoted in the framework of the social dialogue to bring the contribution bases of self-employed workers closer to their real income, so that the main elements of the solidarity contribution system on which it is based are not adversely affected, since the low contribution characteristic of a group that is mostly funded by the minimum base is the main cause of their reduced benefits. This new system has to have an impact on improving the degree of sufficiency of its future benefits. The second mandate, the pension agreement reached in July with all the social partners, says in the fourth point: in order to improve and strengthen the system of protection of the special scheme for self-employed workers and its financing, it is agreed to establish a contribution system based on the actual returns declared fiscally, which is what we are doing and have proposed. Third warrant. Reform three of Component 30 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, agreed with the European authorities, which says: new system of social security contributions for self-employed workers based on returns for economic activities performed. In essence, what the reform we are working on is seeking to correct an anomaly and the problems associated with it. The anomaly is that, unlike all the systems in our environment, in which the contributions of the self-employed depend on net returns, in Spain we have a system in which the contributions are chosen by the self-employed regardless of their income, and in addition the minimum contribution is very high for those with low incomes. The consequence is an unequitable system in which 84 % of RETA members contribute on a minimum basis. This creates two problems. On the one hand, a degree of structural unprotection of the collective, by remaining on a minimum basis throughout the working career a very considerable part of the bulk of the self-employed. This means that the average retirement in the RETA is 40% lower than that of workers in the general scheme; while 30% of employees' pensions are below EUR 800 per month, in the self-employed it is 60%. Low contributions mean that one third of the self-employed are covered by a minimum guarantee. The pandemic has made us all aware of the importance of social security protection. We need to bring that collective education to the new self-employed regime, improving coverage and benefits. On the other hand, the universal minimum quota system is very high for self-employed people who go through low-income phases. If we manage to make a more equitable system by linking contributions to income, we can make the contributions of the self-employed more light in their low income stages. The aim of the proposal on the table is to correct this anomaly in order to make the system more equitable, to deal in a differentiated way with the different economic realities facing the self-employed, to improve protective action from the perspective of the self-employed's career, with better benefits and pensions for the collective, and to be more flexible, allowing the self-employed to lower quotas below the current ones - when yields are low - and to improve them - and therefore to improve access to future benefits - when incomes grow. In addition, we intend to convert the extraordinary benefit created during the pandemic into a structural benefit, granting the self-employed the right to an additional benefit in the face of a crisis or emergency, in addition to reforming the regular cessation benefit to facilitate access to it. The intention is to provide self-employed workers with a much more comprehensive protection system than the previous one, which modulates and adapts to the different stages of their life cycle; with very low contributions when they start the activity, which adapts to their income by allowing them to reduce contributions when their benefits fall, and which allows them to improve their benefits, future pensions and access to income protection in crisis situations at good stages. In short, we are working with the social partners and associations to modernise the social protection system for self-employed people and to design a much fairer and more secure system, which does not abandon self-employed people to their fate during the last few moments, as occurred during the previous crisis and until 2019. I'll give you some data. In the proposal that is on the table, with the current net yields of the self-employed, more than 50% of them will see their quotas reduced and 17% will not change the current system. Of those who have experienced changes with the new system, two out of every three do so to have a lower quota, but that is that two out of every three will be women and will see their quota reduced. Two out of three young people under the age of 30 will see their quota cut. A flat-rate system for new self-employed persons is introduced which allows contributions to be concentrated on people with low incomes in contrast to the current system. In short, unlike what happened in past crises, in this crisis we have been proactive, defending and protecting the autonomous, and the results overwhelmingly support us. Despite the economic slowdown caused by the health crisis, in this crisis we go out with more autonomous than those with which we enter, unlike the past, and now we continue to work to correct the anomalies that make this collective have an unequitable system, that does not adapt to the different economic realities that they face during their career, and that gives them weak protection and excessively low pensions. We are working on this, always in the interest of the self-employed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs García Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u168	Thank you very much, President. Minister, perplexed have remained the 16,164 autonomous who have closed their business in January; they have indeed become perplexed by their words. You want to avoid responsibilities, but you took responsibility freely, so I ask you to be accountable, and you have not answered many of the things I have put to you. But above all, do not lie, Minister, because the biggest social cuts were made by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero before leaving the back door, leaving 250 000 self-employed fewer, 222 000 SMEs closed, 3.5 million unemployed and unpaid bills worth EUR 82 billion, with the complicity of Mr Sánchez, who voted in favour of cutting all budget items, including social ones. The People's Party, even if it doesn't like it, is the party of the autonomous and will continue to be, as we have shown when we ruled, because we were with them from the very beginning and we are still at their side. Because we improve measures such as the regulatory framework; the business environment; we facilitate credit restructuring; we promote alternative financing; we contribute to reducing late payments; we lower taxes; we bet a successful flat rate of EUR 50, which is now 60. In short, measures that the People's Party has always put in place and alongside the autonomous. But, look, with their reform the self-employed are not happy, among other things because a third of the self-employed have not yet recovered from the crisis and do not bill the same as in 2019. In fact, today in Spain, Minister - you say there are 200 - there are 110,000 self-employed people who are still in the process of ceasing activity. They are given on 24 January by the Ministry of Social Security. Don't fool the Spaniards, Minister. [[Applauds]] There are 110,000 ceasing activity and 4534 in Castile and León. Tell us if you're going to solve your situation from 28 February or send them to the street. You talk about direct aid, yes; but you know they were asking you to justify expenses. But if there are many self-employed people who have therefore been left without aid, because they had no expenses to justify, but they have seen their billing down. I give you an example, a tourist guide from my city of Ávila. They have replaced the government's lack of aid with their savings and with family aid, and now without liquidity and the least they will have to close. Look, your RETA reform doesn't like anyone. It announces a proposal that will - it will, even if you say otherwise - increase the social security contribution quota to two out of three self-employed people. And this is not the time, Minister, because already in the General Budgets of the State in this year 2022 you have put your stock and your hand in your pocket. You cannot say that you have not done so because, in the midst of the pandemic, 120 euros a year has been raised in the share of self-employed people who contribute to the minimum base. This is barbarity. You say you'll only go up to those who earn more. I ask you whether those who contribute more than 900 euros, really those, are going to be harmed by their rise. Take a look at it, because an autonomous in Spain will pay twice as much in quotas as a European, and this must be added to the 72% increase in energy costs. The People's Party is not going to allow Mr. Pedro Sánchez' party to be paid for by the self-governing parties, as his macro-government claims. This increase in contributions will serve to ensure that the legion of nearly eight hundred advisors continues to serve Mr. Sánchez, to maintain twenty-three ministries, Garzón, and to give prebenses to Bildu and Esquerra; for this it will serve the contribution of the autonomous. They say the self-employed are in favor of your proposal, but who have you talked to? Because the Spanish Confederation of Young Entrepreneurs is against, Asaja is against, the Federation of Journalists' Associations of Spain is against, the hospitality is against: it says it is disproportionate and it goes in the opposite direction. They have all come against him: physiotherapists, doctors, pharmacists, taxi drivers, Cepyme, commercial agents and even young entrepreneurs of Ávila or the Avila Trade Federation. You turn the nut around to everything...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u169	Mrs. Garcia, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u170	It's over. It does not demonise these job-creating sectors. Talk to real Spain, with Spain that you, with your policies and those of Sánchez, makes an abulense worker pay 600 euros more energy per month or that a butcher of Ávila has to fill his deposit 90 euros when it used to cost 70 euros. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor, the name of the Government, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u172	President, Your Honor, I understand that you have been put here before an impossible mission: you have to build an appearance and a replica to conclude this from the forgetfulness of the self-employed, the hacking of the self-employed. As reality is just the opposite, you bring us here a potion of figures and anecdotes that make no sense, but I understand that the guilt may not be yours, it is that you have been sent to an impossible mission, and also with an extraordinary lack of rigour. It constantly confuses in its Presentation what is a social security contribution. Social Security contribution is a contribution to get better benefits, better protection, better pensions, that's a social security contribution and not what you say; it's not a tax, it's never been a tax, never. Moreover, this is done in all the countries of our environment, by net returns, as employees do, and this is what we are doing so that the self-employed, two thirds of the self-employed, those who are in a more difficult situation in the labour market, who are starting up, who have lower incomes, who start up with lower contributions and then, as they improve, who can contribute more and thus have better benefits. The self-employed know perfectly well - because they have been protected as never before - that in this crisis, by contributing more, they have greater protection, they have insurance against adverse situations, as the pandemic has been; they understand it perfectly. I don't know who you're talking to, I'm talking to all the self-employed, I'm meeting with the associations of all the self-employed. I have agreed six agreements during the pandemic, six with all associations of self-employed people, so I have every credibility to agree, once in a while, agreements with self-employed people, and this is going to happen again. It's a virtual reality that they want to create us based on misinformation; it's sad, it's really very sad, but you'll know. At the beginning of the pandemic - I remember it perfectly well - when we created the extraordinary benefit for the self-employed, which allowed us to sustain the whole fabric of self-employed people throughout the crisis, you began to say that I was not going to help almost anyone. There were voices that said they didn't request it, there were self-employed people who quit, they quit, and that prevented them from getting the benefit. That's irresponsible, that's misinformation, that's getting the self-employed to make the wrong decisions. This is what has happened and many of your observations have that character. It is a caress to misinformation and to create a virtual reality about what we are really doing: making the system much more equitable and allowing self-employed people to have a life-long protection insurance. Maybe you don't understand, because you don't understand what social protection is. They never gave the self-employed any protection during the crisis. There were no self-employed women with extraordinary benefits. Give me the numbers. How many? None. And now, of those 110,000 you tell me, I insist, only 200 are inactive. The rest have activity, what happens is that we are helping them with compensation and we will continue to do so until the restrictions of the pandemic are over, have no doubt, but that has allowed the tissue of the autonomous ones to be maintained. And well, as far as January data is concerned, it seems to me to be an extraordinary demagogy. One day we probably have the best month of January of the entire historical series in affiliation and unemployment, and you come to me with those? [[Applauds]] But how are you disinforming? A month of January in which jobs are being created in most sectors in net terms. A month of January in which undefined jobs are being created as they have never been created. A month of January in which we have much better quality in employment than ever before. But, for God's sake! The problem you have is that you're jumping from narrative. When the narrative of employment goes wrong, they jump to that of the forecast of GDP of whom I don't know. Do you remember the tax narrative? Do you know what the social security deficit is going to be this year? 0.5% of the social security deficit. You left it to us at 1.7%. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u173	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning-system worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE VICE-President FIRST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION ON THE GROUNDS FOR WHICH THE GOVERNMENT HAS NOT ALREADY DEFINED A TAX CONSOLIDATION PLAN FOR OUR COUNTRY OF CREDITIVITY AND CERTIFICATE IN THE SUSTAINABLENESS OF OUR SYSTEM BEFORE THE INCREASE OF OUR LEVEL OF DUTY AND STRUCTURAL DEFICIT, ON THE NEXT WITHDRAWAL OF MONETARY POLICY STIMULS BY THE EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK AND ON THE PROVISIONAL REACTIVATION OF THE EUROPEAN STABILITY COUNTRY COUNTRY FOR THE NEXT YEAR. [[File number 172/000167]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u174	We move on to the next point of the day. Urgent appeal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to the Prime Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, on the reasons why the Government has no longer defined a fiscal consolidation plan for our country that provides credibility and certainty in the sustainability of our system, in view of the increase in our level of debt and structural deficit, on the forthcoming withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus by the European Central Bank and on the foreseeable reactivation of the European Stability Pact next year. For your defence, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u175	Thank you, President. Vice President Calviño, good morning. I want to start this inquiry by showing you my concern. The concern of my group, that of the Spanish liberals, for the economic situation of imbalance and uncertain future that our country is going through. Spain grew by 5% last year. Thus, the data is a good fact, but when we analyse it with all the variants it will agree with me that it is far below the expectations on which the government itself programmed economic policy, that we follow almost 6% below the pre-COVIR level, that we are not growing as we should by the cost of consumption of Spanish households and that, in turn, that low consumption is caused by the purchasing power, the purchasing power caused by inflation, and because its so much publicized social shield has reached less than half of the applicants. This is also said by the National Institute of Statistics. The recovery continues, but is incomplete due to the impact of inflation on families' pockets. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has hit the public accounts of all countries, but it has done so differently in each case and also, of course, as far as recovery is concerned, although you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, want to make us believe that this is contrary to the optical illusion of the Spanish Radio-Television graphics. Despite this, arithmetic is overwhelming: a -11 plus a +5 is still a -6, you paint it as you paint it. A graphic without manipulation. [[Show a chart]] In case there are doubts, we are the red or pink line; we are the ones who fall the most and we have not yet reached the level of pre-COVID growth. This is a graph without manipulation. While the euro area economy as a whole and most European countries have regained their pre-COVID growth levels, such as France and Italy, Spain is still far from the growth of early 2020. Yes, Mrs. Calviño, the recovery is underway, but the difference between your triumphalism and reality is abysmal. Meanwhile, while all this is happening, you continue to increase political spending: there are already 1,200 advisors and fire the advertising campaigns of autobomb 32%. Mrs Calviño, of course my group, the Spanish Liberals, is happy with the recovery, but unlike you, we do not settle for this low level of recovery, because the public accounts approved recently simply do not stand up. Unfortunately, for this 2022, which has already begun, the situation does not look any better: the International Monetary Fund has just substantially lowered its forecasts of growth of our GDP, by less than 6% and far below the 7% envisaged in its budgets, and we already know that the reduction of the International Monetary Fund is linked to those already made by Funcas, AIReF and Banco de España. Vice-President, the weeks pass, the months pass and we see that you are still doing nothing, that you are not moving in the right direction or at the necessary speed. I ask you, Mrs. Calviño, to do something. You are a well-known professional: you have been, among other things, Director-General for Budgets in the European institutions. That is why you know as well as I do that governments actually have little or no influence on what an economy does in the short term and that their responsibility is to take measures that prepare us for the future. Therefore, the best thing your Government can do to prepare us for the future is to present a credible fiscal consolidation plan, which is not based on the easy way to raise taxes and contributions, but is accompanied by a serious and detailed reform plan to underpin growth, to reduce debt and to control the deficit. Because an economy that doesn't grow as planned, an economy that drowns with more and more taxes and with more and more increases in contributions is, as Churchill said, a man with his feet in a cube trying to get up pulling from the wing. We are still in time to postpone the situation, but only if we act now. Inflation, Mrs Calviño, which was to be transitory and transitory, is no longer so. The CPI reduces the strength of growth and complicates the management of European funds. Inflation also implies a cycle change, that of zero interest, which has come to an end. Central banks warn: they will withdraw monetary stimulus and raise interest rates. In fact, the US Federal Reserve is already withdrawing them and the European Central Bank has announced that next March it will start withdrawing those from the euro area, thus adapting to the new reality of inflation. All of this will inevitably affect the macroeconomic scenario. Vice-President, with inflation at 6%, not seen for 30 years, our central bank will have to fulfil its only mandate, which is to keep inflation at around 2%. You will agree with me that this point greatly complicates social recovery, economic growth and the maintenance of the intergenerational pact. The situation - you know as well as I do - is critical in a country with a structural public deficit of 5%, with a 122 debt over GDP and a high risk of rising public expenditure. This is where the Spanish need to know what plans the Government has for our future and that of our children. The sustainability of Spanish public finances is in a position of great vulnerability, and I do not say so, not Citizen, warns the Banco de España and the AIReF. According to the latter's calculations, every 100 basis points rising interest rates will amount, in the year 2024, to an additional 15 billion euros only in the interest payable on our debt. These 15 billion are many billions more than your Government has calculated that it will enter with the new measures envisaged in the update of the Stability Programme by 2024; even more than the minimum living income would cost us in that period if it were granted to those who need it. I have said this before, as long as the wind of the European Central Bank and the low-rate environment are favourable, we will have more room for manoeuvre in the design of a plan to clean up public finances that will allow us to tackle the return to structural budgetary balance in a gradual and non-injurious way for our growth. Another question I would like to ask you, Mrs Calviño: what will happen to Spain when the European fiscal rules, the Stability Pact now suspended, are re-activated in 2023? We would like to know what plans your Government has on this. I say to you, Mrs Calviño, that a plan for the consolidation of public accounts is urgently needed, a plan for the sustainability of finances that is credible and reassures investors, a long-term path that anchors the expectations of the agents and gives certainty about the future of our economy. It is essential to define in the coming months an ambitious fiscal consolidation strategy that will achieve broad political and social support that will allow us to offer our partners in the European Union and the financial markets a roadmap that will clear up doubts and uncertainties. It is your Government's responsibility to prepare the country for this cycle change, because the balance of public accounts is not left-wing or right-wing, it is cross-cutting, and it must be a compromise on the part of everyone, because if the accounts do not fit, Mrs Calviño, public services are affected, and this ends up leading to a lower welfare of the citizens. Fiscal responsibility must therefore be a country position and must be carried out as a State policy. However, it seems that the Government has renounced this State policy since the beginning of the legislature, since it decided to embark with the populists on this adventure. I will not be the one, Mrs Calviño, to tell you what your partners are like in Podemos, but they do not seem to be the best companions for this journey to rigour, to the open market and to the search for consensus. I believe, and I sincerely believe, that you would prefer to rely on a state party, such as Citizens, on a liberal and loyal project to the Spaniards rather than on anti-system forces, which you have to justify, concealing day and day before our European partners as well. It's in your hand, Mrs. Calviño, and I'm telling you as an economist, as a financial professional and as a mother concerned about the country that will inherit my son. Inflation is triggered and we cannot face it alone with propaganda. Take the lead and convince the president that something is done responsibly for once. If you choose the easy way, but that in turn is the brave way, know that you will not be alone, that we will be the responsible opposition and with a sense of state, as we are demonstrating around the debate of labour reform. We are not moved by personalism, phobia or party interests, we just want the best for the Spaniards. But do it now - do it now -, Mrs. Calviño, do not confuse yourself with being. If he wants to remain in the Government, he will inevitably end up complicit in a free fall and will carry all the professional prestige he has accumulated during all these years along that path. I sincerely believe that for Yolanda Díaz, for Irene Montero and for Alberto Garzón he is not worth it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u177	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your inquiry. I sincerely thank you for this opportunity to talk about these issues, because the truth is that it is an ideal time to explain the path of fiscal consolidation, which was already sent to Brussels on 30 April 2021 with our stability programme and which we are not only fulfilling, but overcoming. Before I go into detail, I want to devote a few minutes to the macroeconomic context. As you know, we updated the macroeconomic picture twice a year, precisely in spring and autumn, within the framework of the European budgetary cycle. In the meantime, we closely follow the economic reality so that we can make the best decisions, as we have been doing since the beginning, and that is that the macroeconomic picture is a basis for making decisions and not, as some other political party thinks, for drawing up parliamentary questions every week. The truth is that there have been many upward and downward revisions during this period, over the past two years, but, beyond the specific figures, all international bodies agree that Spain will be one of the engines of the growth of the European Union in 2022 and 2023. This year, growth is expected to be higher than the previous year. As I was able to say this morning, Spain has grown far above the major European economies in the fourth quarter of last year, and for the three-year period 2021-2023 the main agencies expect an average growth of 5%, which is hardly a precedent in our country. And the truth is that it is to outline and highlight the resilience, the resilience of the Spanish economy in a scenario that remains especially adverse. He pointed out that it is the great European economy that grew the most in the fourth quarter of last year, in a context with health risks, geopolitical tensions, bottlenecks in global supply chains or increased international energy prices. And here I disagree with you, because if there is a situation in which economic policy has had an immediate short-term impact it has been in these two years of response to the pandemic. I believe that the scenario would be very different if we had not given a decisive and effective response to the pandemic in terms of health, but also in economic and social terms. All the measures taken, the public guarantees, the aid for business solvency, the ERTE or the provision of self-employed have made it possible to protect the productive fabric, the employment and the incomes of the family, and there is no doubt that this response at European and global level has been fundamental to protect financial stability and to protect, as I said, a basis for a rapid recovery, as we are seeing. This is a departure from the very different crisis from the previous financial crisis, which began in 2008. Beyond short-term measures, in addition to the European recovery plan, the European Union's Next Generation instruments, it has already had a clear and positive impact on expectations and private investment, providing them with a positive outlook for the future, a very different way out of the crisis. As far as prices are concerned, we have talked here repeatedly about how this rebound responds to the basic effect, the bottlenecks on international chains, the strong recovery and, above all, the high energy prices on international markets. In January signs of stabilisation are already being observed, but both the European Central Bank and the Bank of Spain agree that these inflationary tensions will still last a few months and that they will relax throughout the year. We are therefore facing a strong and sustained recovery, not just a passing rebound, a recovery in the form of asymmetrical grapes, as I said from the beginning and as clearly shown in the graph you have taught, which is also reaching all citizens, as the good labour market data show, both from the point of view of the fourth quarter of last year's labour force survey, which shows an extraordinary recovery, with these figures of 20 million employed, an unemployment rate of 13.3%, which we did not see from before the financial crisis, and from the qualitative point of view, with this improvement in private employment, in women's employment, full-time. In January we see that this positive trend continues, also improving the situation of indefinite employment. In other words, we have to focus on starting an economic cycle of sustained growth and quality job creation. As for the fiscal scenario, the collection data accurately reflect this strong economic recovery. Tax revenues rose by more than 15% in 2021, which is a symptom of activity recovery, consumption drive, job creation, investment recovery - the most important factor for our future - and this is not a rebound, because we are already 4% above pre-pandemic collection levels. However, we are going to meet the income forecast. The improvement in collection has been consistent with the tax cuts we have adopted to combat the pandemic, to mitigate the rise in energy prices, which of course has had a significant impact from the point of view of the fall in income. Moreover, this positive income development has been compatible with the maintenance of public investment and the recovery of private investment, a key factor, as I said, to differentiate us from the previous financial crisis. With this macroeconomic scenario and with these tax revenues we are in a position to meet, without doubt, the fiscal targets of deficit and debt reduction. Indeed, the forecasts indicate that we have even closed 2021 below the deficit-debt ratio targets and, as a result, we have resumed the consolidation path we have been on since we arrived at the Government and that it was truncated, as in the rest of the countries, with the arrival of the pandemic. Obviously, the fall in activity, the increase in health expenditure and the aid and tax exemptions to sustain our economy led to a public deficit of up to 10% of gross domestic product and we had to issue some EUR 15 billion in additional public debt, bringing the ratio from 95.5% to approximately 120 %. This exceptional situation led to the implementation of flexibility mechanisms at European level, but also at national level. But regardless of this framework, Your Honor, our Government is committed to fiscal responsibility. Thanks to the leadership in vaccination, the good evolution of our economy and the transfers of European funds from the Recovery Plan, we have already reduced the deficit and debt ratios by 2021, maintaining, as I said, an effective response to the pandemic and a good level of public investment. Although definitive data will be available in the coming weeks, the closing forecast for 2021 points to a deficit ratio on GDP even below the 8.4% target and to a debt/GDP ratio below the 119.5% target; indeed, long-term debt sustainability has improved over this period. By 2021, net emissions have been reduced by EUR 35 billion compared to 2020, a negative emission cost for the first time in history and a total portfolio cost of just 1.64% of GDP, both historical minimums, has been achieved, accompanied by an increase in average life over eight years. In other words, we will meet our fiscal targets, even in a less favourable macroeconomic scenario due to the volatility resulting from the pandemic, tensions in supply chains and rising energy prices. And here I am going to ask you, because you are repeatedly talking about a sanitation plan, what expenditure you want to cut, and they are not worth demagogic answers, because we all know that more than 60% of the expenditure in our budget is social expenditure, it is social investment and therefore the margin is very limited, or, alternatively, what taxes you want to raise more than is expected in the coming years, if you believe that we have to accelerate that responsible and reasonable path of deficit and debt reduction, which is what we have sent to Brussels. At this point, I would like to thank you for your tone and thank you for the support and support given by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. I believe that this is a change of attitude towards other moments in our history and that it comes at an important moment in order, precisely, to approach this phase constructively, this new economic cycle that is now beginning. We will continue on this path of fiscal responsibility in the coming years, as we have gathered in the stability programme. It is a path that foresees a reduction in the deficit of 5 percentage points for the period 2021-2024, i.e. half in two years, bringing us closer to the 3% target at the end of the period. In addition, public debt has a declining profile throughout the period, supported by strong economic growth and deficit reduction, and in two years we hope to reduce the public debt ratio over GDP by 5 points and in four years by 8 points. This development, ladies and gentlemen, contrasts intensely with that observed between 2015 and 2018: when we had everything in favour, with economic growth driven by the international context, the People's Party government barely managed to lower public debt 3 points. That is, thanks to the Recovery Plan we will follow a path of responsible fiscal consolidation, protecting citizens, without cutting public services and with an ambitious agenda of investments and reforms of the future, because fiscal sustainability - I am sure it agrees with me - is achieved by transforming our economy to produce more and better and not by cutting public services or increasing inequality. As I said earlier, Your Honor, debt sustainability will also continue to be pursued even in a scenario of change in monetary policy. In the reply I will have the opportunity to address some of the issues that you have pointed out, such as the revision of the European tax rules, an issue that is very important. In general terms, I want to focus on the fact that we are at a stage of strong and sustained economic growth, that we are going to meet and even exceed the fiscal targets that we have set ourselves and that we have presented Brussels with a path of fiscal responsibility that has been positively valued by the European bodies. I believe that this responsible and future economic policy, looking at and trying to channel this new economic cycle that is now beginning as the cycle of fair recovery, reducing inequality and driving the creation of quality jobs, is an exciting project that should be supported by all parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u179	Thank you. Mrs Calviño, I must disagree with you that the problem of our fiscal sustainability, of our deficit, has been the pandemic; it has simply aggravated it. I remind you that we closed 2019 in a deficit of 2.8%, stopping the fall that we had been prolonging for eight years. I don't know if you'll remember on social Fridays. I'm glad to see you so optimistic, the truth is that I'm happy, but it leaves me nothing to worry that you base fiscal consolidation only through income, i.e. through taxes. He has also not told me anything about the future or how this tax increase affects him and, above all, this increase in contributions. The case of pensions is the clearest example. Instead of ensuring the sustainability of the system, his Government increased the deficit and put its future at risk with a supposed reform that was pure electoralism. And here I would like to be very clear, because no one is thinking about the young people of this country. As I said at the time in the debate on pension reform, and I say now, while young people are still unable to access decent employment and are still unable to carry out a life plan, because they do not find housing at a reasonable price, the Government is betting on continuing to take on more debt, expressing more and more workers, those who cannot even guarantee that they will receive a pension. Instead of pushing, for example, the Austrian backpack, they continue to bet on charging young people with the debt backpack. What PP and PSOE or PSOE and PP have been doing for years with young people in this country has no name. Make it very clear that your children and your grandchildren, our children and our grandchildren, will ask us for explanations for this. Because even the demand for European funds is not an incentive for them to make the reforms that Spain has needed for decades. They prefer to rescue Plus Ultra, they prefer another Plan E, they prefer to multiply spending on advisors and propaganda, they prefer, in short, to use that money that is vital for the future of Spain in paying Pedro Sánchez the longest and most expensive election campaign in history. But you know what? If we told you before that you are not alone on the difficult road back to fiscal consolidation, we also tell young people. We were born and grew up not to give up, and we are not going to tire of proposing reforms or building bridges to achieve great state consensus. Faced with those partners who want Spain to go as far as possible, in Citizens we propose state pacts for birth, education, pensions and for lowering the price of light and we promote plans for the return of talent so that our young people who have had to seek life outside Spain can return, explore and exploit their full potential here. No one beats us to work. We are vocation reformers and implacable with corruption, so that we do not leave a penny there. And I answer the question you asked me about whether I want to continue to raise taxes or cut social spending. Mrs. Calviño, there are many ways to balance the accounts. We need ambitious and efficient tax reform that helps, for example, to combat tax fraud. It is essential, in the face of a tax system like the one we currently have, obsolete and impacted by digitization and globalization, a serious reform, a reform that has independent experts, not only those that the government party puts in place. But in addition, in the expenditure part we need to assess the social profitability of spending programmes in order to reallocate resources to other uses and facilitate the elimination of the deficit. It is not about spending less, it is not about spending more, it is about spending better, making a review of the efficiency of public policies, especially in the area of social spending. No Government, regardless of its political colour, should waste this objective. Mrs Calviño, we are in a very important situation, you said, but also in a debt limit situation. I would really like your forecasts to be fulfilled, because it is for the good of Spain. I insist they let themselves be helped. Get out of the propaganda and look up, because it won't be enough to look away. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u181	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, in my first reply I already announced that I was going to deal with an absolutely crucial issue in this reply, and that is the reference to the revision of the European Union's tax rules. I agree with you that it is a key issue for countries to define credible and consistent consolidation paths with a sustainable growth pattern, and now that the economic situation is becoming normal it is time to resume this important debate. We have no time to waste, we have to review the rules and try to have the most appropriate fiscal framework for the future. I believe that there are several principles that we need to take into account when reforming tax rules pragmatically and without returning to the trenches and old debates of the past, taking into account the impact of the pandemic that has naturally put us in a different situation than we had when this debate was launched in 2020. First, the current public debt ratios on GDP are much higher than the previous ones, compared to the beginning of the pandemic, in all countries of the European Union. The path of reducing public debt must therefore be adapted to the new reality and take into account the specific circumstances of each country, avoiding the mistakes of the previous financial crisis. Secondly, it is essential to stimulate public investment and to mobilise private investment with it in order to transform and modernise European economies and allow the necessary investments in transition, the two-way green, green and digital transition. In previous crises, public investment was the main victim of fiscal consolidation, so I asked you what expenses are those you recommend to cut. Spain is probably the country that suffered most from this lack of investment, which is but a burden for future growth and a mistake that we cannot make again. And, thirdly, I believe that the institutional architecture of the Recovery Plan is a good model that can inspire us in the future. Member States have to play a role in setting their own fiscal targets. Another issue you mentioned is a possible change in the currency policy of the European Central Bank. Despite the uncertainty, the fact is that the current structure of the outstanding debt allows us to predict that, even in a scenario where interest rates could be raised or a change in the orientation of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, the average interest rate of the outstanding debt will continue to fall, as our emissions remain cheaper than the bonds issued three, five or ten years ago, which are the ones we are amortising in this exercise. In short, Your Honor, I would like to convey to you a message of confidence. We are in a phase of strong and sustained growth that, together with the thrust of the Recovery Plan and the measures provided for in the State General Budgets and the good evolution of fiscal revenues, will undoubtedly enable us to meet the fiscal targets this year, the deficit reduction path and the debt of the Stability Programme. By the way, it was our government that carried the government deficit on GDP below 3%, don't forget. We would have followed that path towards balance if the pandemic had not broken out, which naturally led us to effective responses with a clear and important fiscal impact. Now we have to absorb that additional debt, that extraordinary effort of the entire Spanish population, but thanks to the recovery plan and the European response the prospect is to absorb it in a context of growth and prosperity. In this regard, I absolutely share the importance of a reformist agenda. In fact, they are already here, in the parliamentary seat, the bill creates and grows, the competition reform, the startup bill, the audiovisual bill, the telecommunications bill... As far as the fight against fraud is concerned, last year the Anti-Fraud Act, which has entered into force and which I believe is having a positive impact also in terms of the evolution of tax collection, was adopted. Of course there are worrying phenomena - the international scene with geopolitical tensions, the uncertain evolution of the pandemic in much of the world, energy prices - but I believe that people's energy has to be directed not so much to worry as to act effectively, respond and try to anticipate the problems. In this regard, this Government has a coherent economic policy agenda for effective, determined but prudent action. Prudence has guided us in the fiscal sphere. Prudence, coherence, trust and hope will also continue to guide us in this new economic cycle, which now begins with fiscal responsibility, social justice and progressive structural reforms looking to the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u183	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Ministry of Equality to ensure the equality of the Spaniards. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs. Toscano de Balbín has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u184	With the venom. Today we are here to claim the equality of all Spaniards and the ill-treated article 14 of the Constitution. We could talk about a negligent inequality, such as that caused by the different laws of the autonomous communities, or the inequality that will cause the worst law of education of our democracy or that caused by the rise of light, but in VOX today we want to denounce the inequality caused painfully, that which is created with full conscience, with a plan, and the plan is nothing other than collective alienation to, under the false flag of human rights, trample them and abuse them. And how many abuses are being committed in the name of equality, ladies and gentlemen! How many abuses and how much pain is causing the desecration of this word! And I speak of pain because today VOX is here to give voice to all the Spaniards who are suffering the consequences of their gender laws, some laws that are the origin of inequality and the abuse of fundamental rights VOX is in this rostrum to give voice to all those parents who, being innocent, cannot see their children or who have to see them at a meeting point under permanent suspicion, to all those men who spend nights in the dungeon because the system, its system, takes away the presumption of innocence. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] It is also to give voice to all those who suffer domestic violence while being ignored and unprotected by their single-track ideological laws and to all women who are assaulted and see how their aggressor gets out of jail while the Government spends the resources that should be for them in chiringuitos. [[Applauds]] VOX is in this rostrum to give voice to the women and homosexuals who want to escape from their straitjacket, from the totalitarian corset you have imposed on them, and to give voice to the children who were not born and who from heaven wonder why they did not respect their right to live by having a disease or to arrive at a difficult time for their mothers. [[Applauds]] These are their victims, victims of their twisted and perverse concept of equality, victims of the Comprehensive Act against Degenerate Violence, the Trans Act, the LGTBI Act, the Abortion Act, the Equal Treatment Act and all their gender laws. [[The Lord]] The Ministry of Equality, that hatred macrochiringuito, is responsible for these tragedies, but it is not the only one, alongside it we have the People's Party, an accomplice always necessary and servile, who pointed to the feminist and globalist car years ago and who does not dare to go down. And we have all the other parties in the parliamentary arch that seem not to realize that supporting these laws are putting the rope around their necks. [[Applauds]] Equality, they say, yes, but while calling for equality, they promote a law against gender-based violence that criminalizes men and privileges women. They demand equality for women without knowing what women are, but if the woman who suffers violence is a VOX woman, they shut up. They demand equality, but if a white man is accused of violence, they destroy him without evidence; if the aggressor or alleged aggressor is an immigrant, they shut up. [[Applauds]] They demand equality, but if you're from the LGTB collective, privileges and positions. They demand equality, but if you criticize a left-wing woman, it is political violence; if you criticize or insult VOX women, then we deserve it by the sidelines. [[Applauds]] They demand equality, but if the abuser or manipulater of children is the father, it is vicarious violence; if the abuser or manipulater of children is a woman, then even we are forbidden to speak of parental alienation. [[Applauds]] They demand equality, but if you have a disability, it's legitimate to abort you. Don't fool us, ladies and gentlemen, that we are few and we know each other a lot. None of his laws have improved anyone's life. Therefore, to the question posed by this great priestess of inequality and hatred, the ineffable Irene Montero, on what VOX proposes, we answer without complexes. We propose equality of truth, which involves treating the person with full honesty according to what it truly is, not according to what we are interested in. We propose a law that protects all victims of violence without discrimination on grounds of sex, age or sexual orientation. We propose that the aid should be intended for the victims, not for chiringuitos. We propose that all the weight of the law should fall on those who attack, be men or women. We propose a firm control of our borders so that no one who does not respect our rights and our way of life remains among us. And we call for the defence of fundamental rights, from the presumption of innocence to the right to life. [[Applauds]] VOX is the only party that really believes that we are all equal, equal in dignity and, therefore, in rights. But to say this is scandalous for your totalitarian thinking, because, as Hannah Arendt said, you totalitarians do not want people to distinguish between reality and fiction, between the true and the false. And here the false is your supposed struggle for equality and the real thing is that that word is used by you as a gross excuse for the destruction of the person and the family. And this is what underlies the gender ideology. [[Applauds]] We propose good, life, freedom, equality, justice. They are values of natural law and, therefore, universal, applicable to every man and at all times. Any legal system that ignores or violates these principles is trying to cossify and denigrate man, to turn him into goods subject to sale, of constructions and denaturalizations. But, of course, that new man, who doesn't even know who he is, is a much easier product to manipulate for you. We will not remain indifferent to the injustice and inequality caused by this ideology and the laws it produces, to the fruit that they generate of hatred, pain and destruction, because in VOX, when we talk about equality, we talk about the obligation that politicians have to guarantee respect for the dignity of every human being, because only by respecting that dignity will the happiness of each and every one of us be possible. But, of course, the premise of all this is to believe that every man deserves that happiness. And it seems that, after all, it imposes the terrible reality that you only want the happiness of a few, yours; us, that of all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u185	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Equality is a concept to which the Spanish Constitution gives special importance by specifically including it in six of its articles, beginning with the first of all in which it states that Spain is constituted in a social and democratic state of law that promotes freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism as superior values of its legal system. However, for the government of Pedro Sánchez, equality is only on the label of a ministry that a feminist with an accredited curriculum, Mrs. Lidia Falcon, has defined palmarily. The Ministry of Equality is a joke of neighborhood friends who go there to play. Since in Spain we are not for expensive jokes or frivolities in charge of the public era, coincided with the Parliamentary Group VOX in the urgency of suppressing this ministry because, after the equator of the legislature, the pirical balance sheet of these two years portrays the futility of an agency created as a product of the agreement between PSOE and United We can with its distribution of ministerial portfolios that respond exclusively to particular interests, under whose protection a very clear administrative structure has been provided that no significant benefits for Spanish society are known. It should be stressed that the allocation in the General State Budgets in the current year 2022 has increased for this ministry from 459 million to 525, as corresponds to this machine of spending public resources with very little efficiency. It is also insulting that this department has provided accommodation and salary as an adviser to a convicted woman for assaulting the authority. And it is disturbing that the head of the ministry, Mrs Montero, has made gender ideology a constant social provocation, as we had occasion to hear very recently at the beginning of the autonomous campaign of Castile and León. It is a minister who with her statements, and those of her correspondents in the blue bank, weakens Spain's foreign policy precisely at the most delicate moments in several decades, in view of the global crisis resulting from the high tension on the border of Ukraine and Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a priority to talk about the great needs of the Spaniards in this XIV Legislature in which inequality has been deepened. Official propaganda tries to hide a growing reality so as not to highlight the futility of a ministry from which discord is promoted. Today, Spanish society is impoverishing itself at an agitated pace and feeding on women with special pollution, as has always been the case in history. This is the result of the economic failure that has led us to an escalation of the unknown inflation in three decades and to an increasing rise in the shopping basket and the basic points. All of this is crushed by a bill of light that drags more and more families. Speaking of the shortage of commodities, I do not know what the two parliamentary groups that make up the Government would be thinking when they abstained from voting on a non-legislative proposal that promoted, at the request of the Republican Parliamentary Group, measures to lower the price of products related to female intimate hygiene. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a specific reference to Asturias, an autonomous community in which women are at a disadvantage in many respects, because, when we talk about the region's lowest labour force rate in Spain, this negative figure is even more pronounced among Asturians who also have much worse access, already precarious, to the labour market, to a rate of temporality higher than that of men and, in addition, it falls on them in particular the work of conciliation, leading the national ranking of labour discrimination. It is even worse for the great forgotten of this government, the Spanish in rural areas, which have historically been sacrificed in the very hard life of the agro-ganadere families. Finally, some of the aspects that this initiative contemplates go in a way that does not respond to the purposes contained in the State Pact against Gender Violence that we adopted in 2017, despite the desperate attempts of the United Nations We can blow it up at the last minute with an amendment to the whole. I believe in the need for broad consensus on these issues, and we have an immediate political challenge ahead when this state pact needs to be updated next September. But Mrs. Montero, with her provocations and the ideological sectarianism of her department, is the guarantee of a colossal failure. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u187	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. I am very intrigued from the beginning that kind of staging that you do when a woman intervenes here; then passes, receives the blessing of the alpha male and goes up. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] It's very interesting, very interesting. It is not possible to understand or intervene on this motion without taking into account the interpellation that precedes it: the indescribable and pathetic theatrical performance of Mrs Olona, who is not here today. I wish I was, because I was going to address her. I did not think I would waste a minute debating or discussing the fallacy and hyperventilated assertions of this shameful text brought to us by the deputies of VOX, but for the respect and defense of so many women who suffer and have suffered the cruel scourge of machismo and gender violence and its unfortunate consequences it is worth telling them four things. His speech was formally deceivable, disrespectful and, above all, arrogant, very arrogant. As St. Augustine said, arrogance seems grandeur but it is swelling. [[Applauds]] And swelling always shows something insane; behind the swelling there is always something insane. And the content, dangerous because of what it carried and contemptuous and insolidary towards the weakest; very unchristian, by the way, known their public and exaggerated devotions. Marshall McLuhan said the famous phrase so manida and known that 'the medium is the message' and in this case it cannot be more accurate because the message was her, she embodied everything she said; her forms, her language were her message. I cannot forget that despotic intervention for whom I had not had the luck or the opportunities she had had. I cannot forget that intervention so humiliating for those who, because of circumstances that unfortunately caused them to face, have not been able to take another step in this life. I cannot forget that intervention so angry and self-satisfied, making overcrowded brawls of an empowered and free woman. Here I am, the great lawyer of the state, being a woman. What are you all complaining about? I don't know who I wanted to kick, but we're pretty used to those theaters. Gentlemen of VOX, what's wrong with the one who couldn't be? What about the message you have offered? What vital alternative for those who have been crushed, humiliated, have suffered gender-based violence? What do you transmit to him? What's that couple stuff, what's normal, and what's it gonna be? [[A Member: And ladies]] [[Several Members: No, no.-Rumores]] We're talking about rights and we're talking about freedoms. In addition, the intervention and the text are pedantic. You have written an encyclical full of interested interpretations, feminism, about sexuality, which mixes Simone de Beauvoir, then comes with something else and makes a very sui generis interpretation. But the question is, if we're all wrong, what's your reference? What do you offer us? Because they deny the UN, the Istanbul Convention, the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Council of Europe, even the pope seems to them a libertarian. So, what is the reference you bring us? Bolsonaro? Trouman? Who is it? Because we don't understand. The French are wrong, the Germans too, the European Parliament...; all are wrong, you are against the world. We still don't know what model they're offering us, but it's in vain. You will continue to deny misfortune and prevent, wherever you can, laws and public actions from being shielded so that these situations do not continue to occur. They will continue to do so because they yearn for a world that is no longer, a world in which their truths were imposed and, in addition, they punished the one who said otherwise, a world in which the weak would continue to be weak for life and the strong, by natural or divine right, too. You want a world in which no one can decide for themselves, be it people or people, whether about their sexuality, their well-being or their political future. Its arrogance and posthumous theatres have a dramatic background. I could give you a Lacanian version of it, but I'm going to do it with a political reading: Fascism began that way. Don't forget St. Augustine. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u189	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u190	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now debating this motion by the VOX Group and I believe that we need to put some sense in regard to equality between Spaniards. It is incomprehensible that the lords of VOX, when we speak of equality between men and women or of discrimination suffered by a person because of his or her sexual status, race, gender or disability, resolve everything by saying that equality is already covered in article 14 of the Constitution. Really, it's an unrealistic position. Of course we have a recognition of iure, and less evil than we do, but we must continue to work towards real equality and we must therefore implement the mandate of Article 9.2 of our Magna Charter. As for women, of course, we have made much progress, thanks to pioneers such as Clara Campoamor, but also to the efforts of our mothers, grandmothers and all those who have been overcoming barriers to make our way a lot easier; a path in which many men have participated who have been aware of the obstacles that women have to access positions of responsibility, because we also have to choose still today between our professional career and having a family. Of course it's a accompanied process. Talking about effective equality is about promoting equality of opportunity. Beyond the Constitution, such legal recognition is needed, specific measures, active policies that promote equality from a gender perspective and in line with reality. When I sometimes hear certain arguments, when I read certain documents, I say: I don't know if they are aware of what many gypsy women have struggled to study in college because of our status as a woman, because of our status as gypsies. I do not know if they are aware of the violence experienced by women with disabilities, who have been sterilized by their condition. I don't know if you're aware of the reality that many women live who have to give up their professional career when they have a child. This is the reality we face and, moreover, it is marked by gender when we talk about equality between men and women. Gentlemen of VOX, I think you have a bandage in your eyes, and the worst part is you don't want to take it off. I'll tell you what. There is inequality that affects women simply because they are women and I will not stop to explain the reasons, because I think I would need all morning and what is regrettable is that you want to use the principle of equality in the worst possible way to deny the guarantee of equality to the most vulnerable, because you talk about certain data. I'll give you some data. Unfortunately, 44 women have been murdered in Spain since 2012. The wage gap between men and women is 11.9%. They say that women do not suffer inequality because they account for 49 % of the General State Administration, but forget that of the 740 senior officials, only 33 % are women. Women occupy only two out of ten senior positions in the health system. In Citizens we are strong advocates of equality without nuances, as liberals, as progressives, as Adolfo Suárez, as Clara Campoamor. We believe that the battle for equality goes beyond the use of a term, of course, and in Citizens we will not tolerate a single step backwards in this matter of equality. We are not going to tolerate that VOX wants to diffuse the existence of macho violence. We will not tolerate people being considered LGBTBI and trans as mentally ill, but quite the opposite. We're going to work to promote a legal framework that guarantees. In Citizens we are not going to allow the persecution that we Gypsies have experienced to be said or denied - as I have heard in some committee -. In Citizens we are going to work to amend Article 49 of our Constitution and eliminate the term 'diminished', and we are not going to profile ourselves, as the PP is doing. In Citizens we are going to work for a comprehensive equal treatment law that is effective, and we are not going to do like the government parties, which seem to have been fighting to see who was carrying this flag. Besides, we want protection for all minors, and here too I'm going to stop. We believe in a loyal way in defending the abuses that all minors are suffering. That is why we stand in favour of a commission of inquiry, to know about these abuses that have been suffered by children of the Church. But we have also asked to investigate the situation of minors under guardianship in Baleares, Madrid and Valencia, and what a coincidence that we ask our Minister for Social Rights to appear and tells us that she is not competent. Are there first and second children when we talk about defending fundamental rights? Well, no, for Citizens there isn't. And besides this, I want to make a reference to the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u191	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u192	Yeah, I'm gonna finish. Seeing VOX's position, does the PP of Castile and León intend to repeal the Equal Opportunities Act? Can you sleep quietly if you rule with VOX in Castile and León? Are you going to take a step back in what constitutes an advance in equality and equal opportunities for all the citizens of Castile and León? I call you to this reflection, ladies and gentlemen. I call you to this reflection... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u193	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u194	Thank you very much, President. The repeated presentation in the time of this motion, to say something, confirms it to me. VOX has a problem. VOX has a problem with women. [[Laughter]] The gentlemen of VOX laugh. I'll explain the problem to you. Women are the least likely to vote for VOX. [[Rumors]] Do you know the age range of women who vote less for VOX? Women over the age of sixty-five. You know why? Because they knew life under the Franco dictatorship. [[Applauds]] The Lost Paradise of VOX, I repeat, the Lost Paradise of VOX. A time without freedom, without rights, when women were second-class citizens and had to ask their husband for permission to open a bank account or to apply for a passport. Mr. Agirretxea wondered what the VOX reference was. There are two: the Franco dictatorship or Saudi Arabia, where women are the same. [[Rumors]] For putting in two VOX references. Saudi Arabia, where, by the way, the Emeritus king has his golden exile. These women don't vote for them because they know what VOX is, they know what's been going on all these years and they know what they went back if VOX ever came to rule. We have no doubt, there would be a setback in rights and freedoms, in women's rights and freedoms, in citizens' rights and freedoms. This ripio of motion confirms it to me; a ripio of motion that they repeatedly present in this House and that we repeatedly reject without contemplations, without any hint of doubt. Of course, there is still inequality between men and women. Look, one thing: pensions in the Valencian country. The average retirement pension for men in respect of women: 387 euros more men than women. And yes, of course there is gender-based violence, 11,128 women killed since 2003. In 2019, 31,000 women suffered gender-based violence, and only you deny it. Look, one of the most exciting days I've lived in this Congress was now almost a year ago, when we left them alone with their lies, with their whoredoms, when deputies of all parties were able to applaud deputies of Republican Left, the CUP or Citizens without any hint of doubt. It was exciting. That day I got excited. We leave them alone with their lies. Today we will no longer read 1081 names, today we should add the names of forty-seven more women. The corporal. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you're right, there's only VOX left; there's only the ridiculousness of VOX left when he presents this cheekbone, this motion spurt. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u195	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u196	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I've had a little paper problem. I don't usually lose them. Lost, they're not, but they've fallen. Anyway, they don't need it either. When I was preparing this motion, the first thing I thought about - and I pick up a little what the previous speaker put forward - is that VOX systematically drags us into a discussion about the existence or not of macho violence - they are the only ones in the world who believe that it does not exist, but good; by the way, for when does the terraple motion?, I am looking forward to it - and we let ourselves be dragged into its mental framework, discussing things that are obvious, entering into battles that they say ideologically, because they are not here by ideology. They must be for money, if they are not for ideology; I am here for ideology, indeed. [[Applauds]] Well, my proposal to the House, following what we did that day, is not to enter. In English they would say: bullshit. Let's not go in. That it doesn't exist? Okay, fine, well, it doesn't exist. You would be able to find water at sea. So, okay. We're going to do the opposite: we disagree. Let us explain why what the Ministry of Equality is doing is necessary: because it is a ministry that is putting very important laws on the table and because, moreover, in its feminist conception of politics, it is making progress for all people. Let us explain to those who are hearing that feminism does not free women; no, feminism frees women and men, frees us all. Feminism allows that it does not have to be males as the ideal of VOX. It doesn't take a campaign to get on a horse and go to reconquest, no. You can do things with dialogue and you can do things with more or less normal forms between people who do have a part of nature and nature, of course, but we have surpassed that part, because we think, because we think, because we talk, because we talk, because we reason, because even if animals are sentient beings, who are, humans are sentient and thinkers, look at you!, and we will take all this to explain to everyone that feminism - and I say it for the fifth time already in this House - is not the opposite of sexism. Feminism is the belief that women are people, we have human rights and we must share life in terms of equality, justice and freedom with the rest of humanity, because together we want to make that path. And there you'll let me tell you that's probably the worst thing. You think you're gonna get millions of votes saying we're discriminating against men? It's just to laugh, if it wasn't to cry. We are discriminating against men, the laws - look, you - give rights to victims of male violence. And what do you want the laws to do if they pretend to be minimally fair? Indeed, they give rights to victims of sexist violence. I'd just miss it! They accompany, recover and, somehow, try to recover what was taken from them. They said it very well before: their model is dictatorship. I remember them... [[Rumors and Protests]] I remind you - and please calm down a little bit - that the Divorce Act is 1981; the Abortion Act, the first, was 1985; and the second, was 2010. I remind you, very little ago, so little ago that we don't even have these rights settled enough. That's why they're dangerous, because they're trying to take away the little steps we've taken, because we're not where we're supposed to be yet. Do you know when equal pay for men and women is? 2020. And you come and tell us it's all done? For God's sake. The only thing I want with this intervention is for us to leave them alone. Let us leave them alone; let them speak and pollinate and piafen and do what they have to do, but let us not turn them into the center of the discussion, because we have to lose them to so much fanaticism, to so much intolerance and, above all, to so many lies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u197	Thank you. For the Confederal Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Franco Carmona has the floor. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Hala, Franco!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u198	Before I started, yes, I was named Franco. Not only can dictators use that surname, but also the working class, as is my family. [[Applauds]] Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, why are you so afraid of our boobs? Why are you so afraid of our languages, our skin colors, our sexual and gender identities? Why do they have so much hatred? What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen of VOX? [[Laughter]] The consequences of his hatred and his macho speeches have been very clearly seen this weekend at the Benidorm Fest. I'll tell you with an example, Arcadi Sword's article yesterday: A ghetto hurricane has sent the river monk to wind and Spain will go to Turin with a song of tall hard tits. Wow! Wow! With these speeches, what you are pursuing is to reproduce these harmful gender stereotypes and confront us among ourselves, but this country has responded to them with an enormous example of sorority among artists, a social example and a paradigm shift in the music industry. The work of women who write and sing as they please, with the words that they desire and in the language that gives them the desire, is becoming more and more interesting. Go on with your head intellectuals, giving shame to others. We have songs playing, we have songs to write, to tell ourselves free and to own our own lives, because feminism is unstoppable. Their speeches encourage reactionary actions in all places and aspects of life, also in the most intimate and leisurely, such as video games, where many women end up even changing the name for a boy to avoid being harassed; or on social networks, or in jobs, or simply walking the street. We have to listen constantly to comments like: stay in the kitchen; shut up and eat my dick - I mean literally -; shut up, bitch, go fuck yourself; girls are garbage... And this, as I say, we find in all spheres of life. As the studies of the delegation of the Government of Gender Violence show, half of women have ever suffered male violence and 400,000 women have suffered sexual harassment in their work. Is it becoming clear to you why we need feminism and why we need the Ministry of Equality? In Spain, moreover, men earn 12% more than women; the pension gap is 30%; women occupy only 19% of managerial positions; only 13% of STEM careers are occupied by women; 77 %, I insist, 77 % of trans women have ever been discriminated against in accessing a job. People in the LGTBI collective not only suffer discrimination in the labour market, but are also victims of hate crimes because of their sexual and gender orientation. There is also enormous discrimination against racialised people in access to the labour market or housing; 51.8% of racialised people experienced discrimination at some point in 2020. As long as there is a single glimpse of inequality, harassment or discrimination there will be feminist movement, feminist policies and institutions that fight for equality. And not just because it is defended by the United Nations We can, but because it is dictated by the international mandates of the UN, already since 1979, with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women; the Council of Europe, with norms such as the Istanbul Convention; the United Nations, condemning discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, or the resolutions of the European Parliament calling for the depathology of trans-identiary experience. Spain, too, with the renewal of the State Pact against Gender Violence, which has been extended and will not expire, thanks to the Ministry of Equality and also to the Socialist Party, and which has a great consensus despite VOX, which remained alone with its misogyny. And more feminist laws will come, such as the organic law for sexual freedom or the preliminary draft law for the effective equality of trans persons and the guarantee of LGBTI rights. The first rule I have commented on is 1979. Spain was in the middle of the transition and dictator Franco had just died, and that is where you want to take us by eliminating policies and institutions that deploy policies for equality and non-discrimination and freedom of women and men, to a dark past of brands and ladies and gentlemen and to the Women's Section.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u199	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u200	I'm done, President. But they are not attacking the Ministry of Equality, they are attacking all women, including their parliamentary group, their sisters, their neighbours, their mothers, their cousins, their grandmothers; they are all being attacked. And I tell you one last thing, one lesson...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u201	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u202	I'm done, President. This is the lesson: He is not going to win his hatred, because the feminist movement is much bigger than his hatred and already permeates everything. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u203	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs González Guinda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u204	President, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party we clearly call for the abolition of the Ministry of Equality; a ministry that has proved to be inefficient to solve the real problems of citizens, which is occupied in empty and empty campaigns and dedicated to self-bombing and propaganda; a ministry dedicated to giving subsidies without prior control, as reported last December by the General Intervention of the State, which in turn requires the forced elaboration of a strategic plan of subsidies with which it does not count; a ministry that has doubled the spending of staff on advisers in the budget of 2022, all in the midst of the pandemic. See, with a government of the People's Party, with a secretariat of state, without the need for a mastodontic ministry of equality, Spain ranked fifth in the ranking of equality, according to the University of Georgetown, ranking in which in three years we have dropped to 14. [[Applauds]] In addition, with a government of the People's Party, the wage gap narrowed by 5%. On the other hand, we cannot deny the different inequalities that exist in our country. Inequalities have grown with this Government. The ClosinG app, which analyses five different critical categories, notes that by 2020 it stood at 64% and the gender gap at 35%. On the other hand, the Foessa and Caritas Report, published last January 18, shows that social exclusion in female-headed households has risen from 18% in 2018 to 26% in 2021, almost triple that recorded in the case of men. Ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is the main manifestation of inequality between men and women and constitutes a serious violation of human rights. This is confirmed by the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women adopted by the UN General Assembly, the Beijing International Conference on Women, the Istanbul Convention and reflected in the State Pact against Gender Violence, promoted by the People's Party and extended on 25 November, by the way, without the signature of your party, Mrs. Toscano. In this pact we express that violence against women is the most cruel and inhuman manifestation of the secular inequality between women and men that has occurred throughout history in all countries and cultures. To combat it must be a matter of State, since violence against women constituted a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms; a State pact, by the way, which had not been signed by the party of the Minister of Equality. Ladies and gentlemen, 1128 women have been killed in our country since 2003, two this year. These data show us the magnitude of the problem. Violence does have a gender, and obviating it has a direct impact on the victims; it is so complicit that it questions the existence of this violence, such as who, not questioning it, refuses to take the necessary measures to combat it. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the equalization of gender-based violence and domestic violence is not possible. Not all services, measures, support projects apply to both problems, because they have different origins, causes and solutions. The fight against gender-based violence must be complementary to the fight against domestic violence, which was never exclusive. We cannot fall into this trap, of course we must also combat it, precisely because we want to prevent it from becoming a problem of the magnitude of gender-based violence. Today in León we have 657 victims of gender-based violence, out of a total of 3830 of my community, Castile and León. When they get up tomorrow, what do you propose? What do they have in the Penal Code? What does Article 14 have to be read? In my country, in Castile and León, they do not stand still, because effective programmes implemented by the Government of the People's Party of my community, led by Fernández Mañueco, a president who is seriously committed to gender-based violence, have been created. With this I think I answer you, Mrs. Giménez. A great deal of work is being done on gender-based violence in my community, with a three-phase care model: a first early detection, involving entry into the Board's network of resources, with emergency centres, shelters and legal and psychological support services; a second phase, with an intervention process, with a comprehensive care plan; and a third phase, where we emphasize the restoration of rights, because the goal is the recovery of autonomy, not the generation of pockets of dependency. That is the key, for women who suffer violence to regain their lives again, their illusion of living securely with an independent life project, and for them to have a hopeful future. There they will continue to find us, where the People's Party has always been, where we are and where we will continue to be. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u205	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u206	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you come up to this rostrum to cry out against women's rights, to insult feminists and to try to build alternative stories about equality. Why do you strive to develop arguments to try to discredit a movement that is humanist, enlightened and democratizing, such as feminism, why it will be. You spread in this rostrum machismo, intolerance and hatred. And look, I can have many discrepancies with some of the speakers who have spoken before me, but I have something very clear: in the face of their hatred, in the face of misogyny and in the face of those who want to destroy with women's rights, we have the obligation, the moral obligation to be together. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, leave the paternalistic appeals to men. I have to tell you that most of your fellow men are in favour of civic rights and equality; here I give you an example of men in favour of women's rights. Equality is not a women's issue, nor is it a left-wing issue of the Congress of Deputies, it is a matter of democratic quality. Because look, a rule of law cannot be allowed a form of systematic and specific violence that is announced to us every day on television as if it were a Malaysian drop. You dare to talk about real equality while denying the scientific evidence, the data and the knowledge that demonstrate the inequality that exists between men and women, in short, you deny that there is violence against women. Look, last year there were 150,000 reports of male violence. There are 150,000 Spanish people who lie, there are 150,000 Spanish people who manipulate, there are 150,000 Spanish people who are at the service of a conspiracy? We have more than 1100 women killed by sexist violence since data exist. Don't you realize how violent you are with those broken families? Think about it, get on the skin of those orphans, those mothers, those parents that you humiliate from this rostrum. You don't have a soul. I won't get tired of explaining it. Machist violence is the result of unequal power relations that exist in our society and that also manifest themselves in the couple. Since this situation of inequality, abusers exercise physical, psychological and sexual violence in order to control their victims. You say that there is no such framework, although it is internationally recognized, because its goal is to stop male violence by talking about domestic violence. Domestic violence exists and is therefore accepted in our legal system, but there is also gender-based violence that is specific to women. That violence is what you want to invisibleize, that or perhaps you do not know the reality you claim to see from your ideological lock. By the way, the comprehensive law against gender-based violence has reduced by 70 per cent the death victims of male-based violence since its entry into force. Inform yourself a little before you come up to this rostrum. [[Applauds]] You spread anger over the victims of true human dramas, victims on too many deadly occasions. Machist violence is not a debate or a fetish of ideas for frivolous politicians like you. Talk to the State Security Forces and Corpses, talk to the branch prosecutors, talk to the government delegations. Look, knowing the real problems, meeting people involves a lot more than taking pictures doing ridiculously with a fur and a beret in Segovia. I was telling all of you that we have an obligation to be together in front of the far right. Therefore, gentlemen of the PP, on which side are you facing those who are talking about eliminating equality policies? On which side are you facing those who say that violence has no gender? All Spain, but especially the people of Castile and León, have the right to know these days which side you are on. In Castile and León, ladies and gentlemen, we need to know whether women's rights are negotiable, whether equality policies are a currency of change for you. We know that Luis Tudanca is not going to agree his investiture with VOX; tell us if you will, tell us the Castilians and the Lions if we run the risk of having an extreme right-wing vice president, tell me now, please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in conclusion, do not underestimate the women who eight years ago, a day like yesterday, crowded the streets with the arrival of the freedom train in Madrid. On 13 February, the Castilians and the Lionesses, the plains of the towns and cities that you claim to defend and that you use as a tool, let us again tell them loud and clear that we do not want a black and white community, that our rights are not being negotiated. Ladies and gentlemen, citizenship requires freedom and equality, and women are not going to take a step back. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u207	Thank you. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO PROTECT THE SPANISH TOURIST SECTOR. [[File number 173/000116]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u208	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect the Spanish tourism sector. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u209	Good afternoon. VOX brings to this House an urgent motion on the measures that the Government is going to take to protect the tourism sector. Yes, urgent, because since March 2020, the Government has declared the state of alarm, recognized as unconstitutional thanks to VOX, it has been two years, two years since they trampled on the Constitution, kidnapped Congress by paralysing legislative activity and curtailed rights and freedoms by prohibiting the Spanish from working, almost twenty-four months of prohibitions and restrictions that have harmed the tourism sector in particular and all sectors in general. They will go up to this rostrum saying that yes, they have helped them, they will say that they helped them with that royal decree that came late and bad, late because they presented it nine months after the pandemic began, and bad because it offered only indebtedness and postponement. They will say that the royal decree, that of the famous aid, excluding by the CNAE, with an insufficient amount that makes access to the aid impossible and that does not make an equitable distribution. And then you will have another royal decree, which generates discrimination between sectors and companies according to the community or autonomous city in which you live. While they are dedicated to complicating everything, not fulfilling their promises, there is cold and hungry out there, because while the PP and PSOE are in their dimes and direct, out there it is cold; it is cold because there are many Spaniards who cannot even turn on their stove thanks to the rise of light and it is cold because time runs against it and live it with despair, because they have been two years with falling billing, rising taxes, uncertainty, uneven regulations according to who governs, two years of prohibitions and aid that do not arrive. [[applause]] They were forbidden to work; what if they were compensated for it. They don't want help, they want to let them work and leave them alone. [[Applauds]] I am talking about the government of the nation, but I also spoke of autonomous governments such as that of Andalusia, with a Moreno Bonilla who imposes a COVID passport on us, undermining rights and freedoms, or that of Castile and León, led by the People's Party, which also imposes restrictions and where aid does not arrive. We said it months ago, they would have to have applied a very simple formula, which VOX proposed in this rostrum on the basis of a very objective criterion: the fall of the billing. We demand aid and compensation from any company in any sector that has seen its income lost. But, of course, they have to come and complicate everything, and it is such a ignorance that, for example, in their decrees, they have established as a requirement for access to aid that would not have been declared a negative result for economic activities in 2019, without taking into account that in these cases the negative results have different interpretations depending on the investment curve, the depreciation strategy and economic projections. I speak as a deputy of VOX - which is an honor - and as a tourism professional, and I am told by my colleagues in the profession: they can no longer. I read your decrees and listen to your interventions and we see that you have no idea what it means to lift a blind, to look at a door waiting for a client or to touch that cold door to attract you, you don't know what it is to liquidate VAT or the titanic task of managing and controlling a cost structure, be it a big company, a SME or a micro SME, and the sector tells you and you don't listen to them. In your padded armchairs you can spend another day, but for the self-employed, for the entrepreneur, for the workers, every day counts. That is why we urge the Government to act urgently in favour of a dying sector, because we are desperate and are told this by the hospitality representatives in Segovia, who said - I quote literally - that the time is coming to pay the ICOs and we do not have to pay. And we are told by the representatives of active tourism in Palencia and the hoteliers of Ávila: they can no longer. And they don't tell me just because we've been campaigning now, they've been telling me for months, years. But for that you have to step on the ground, you have to listen and you have to work. [[Applauds]] Tourism is employment, tourism is wealth, tourism is a smile. Tourism is Carlos and his travel agency; it is Teresa, who gets up at two in the morning to take his taxi at four o'clock - that to which they have now climbed, as to all Spaniards, fuel -; they are Mar and Elvira, who manage a fabulous museum in Malaga; it is Federico, with his audiovisual company in the management of events; it is Juan Carlos and his food distribution company; it is Julio and his consultancy; they are Reme and Gema, hairdressers; it is Carmen and his neighborhood trade; it is the whole value chain of tourism, and it is obligatory to protect it, to protect the tourist industry that contributes so much to Spain, because it contributes in terms of employment, happiness and image. [[applause]] Or aren't they happy when they see a sunset on the beach, a sunrise on the mountain or have a coffee on a terrace? Look, I could tell you about a lot of data: the INE Frontur surveys, the Egatur surveys, the EPA survey published by Turespana, which confirms the number of employed people, unfortunately, who have lost their jobs. All these figures, which show the loss of millions of euros, the massive destruction of jobs and the deteriorated image of Spain, have a face and have a name. But now what I want, as a tourism professional, is to send a message of hope to all the professionals who strive every day to provide the best of services. I know that this government does not have a plan or, if it has a plan, it is the destruction of Spain. I know that this government is encircling our rights and our freedoms, but out there and here there are a handful of brave people who do not resign and that we will continue to fight every day for Spain. And Spain are its bars, and Spain is its people, and Spain is night entertainment, its bulls and flamenco, our popular parties, the beach and the mountain, its fortresses and castles, its towns and cities, its spices and its exquisite gastronomy. Spain is the legacy of our grandparents, it is the legacy that we will leave to those who come behind. Spain is the primary sector, it is the industry. And it's not written that we have to resign ourselves, and we're not going to resign ourselves, to the policies of the usual parties, because now VOX is here and there's a battalion of millions of people who say it's okay, because they want hope, they want peace, prosperity, life, freedom and equality. Finished. 'Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices in the truth.' Everything you believe, everything you expect...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u210	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u211	...and love can do anything. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u212	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Velasco Morillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u213	Good morning, almost late already, ladies and gentlemen. Spain, as a tourist destination, has a consolidated image and international prestige, with a great potential for diversification and continued growth due to our geographical, climatic, historical and cultural variety. Mrs Rueda, we are separated from our tourist attractions, that of Malaga and that of Zamora, but we are joined by the tourist attractions of our diversity, of the tourism and the wealth of this country, of our Spain, a tourism that in Spain pre-COVER represented the first industry in the economic and social structure of Spain, 12.4% of the GDP, sector that generated employment, about 2,800 000, drag sector with remarkable multiplier effect in other productive areas. Almost two years after COVID-19 broke out throughout the world, our country continues to face the consequences of the course of a crisis of unknown proportions with unequal impact on productive activities and where the tourism economy has been one of the sectors most penalized by the effects of the virus and to which the Socialist Government has not, with its active policies, paid the attention that the sector deserved to consolidate the recovery of the first economic and social industry of brand Spain. Mrs. Rueda, you don't have to come from VOX, the People's Party has been actively working on it. From the very beginning of the COVID, the People's Party registered the first initiative in this House that referred to COVID and tourism, it was in February 2020. And there have been twenty-five more initiatives, in line with the support we give to the tourism sector when we govern. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs a comprehensive post-pandemic strategy for the tourism brand, which serves as a comprehensive roadmap to regain the competitiveness of our companies and tourist destinations; to renew and strengthen the world's leadership and prestige in tourism. And not only the product of sun and beach is important, but also the tourism of the interior, where Castilla and León stands out as leader in the whole of Spain. Castilla y León is the largest region in Europe and the Spanish Government needs more attention and resources: in tourism, in communication, in tax incentives for the self-employment of young people and other preferred groups, or that the distribution of European funds is not based on the political colour of its rulers. It is a community with characteristics linked to natural spaces, cultural, historical and gastronomic heritage distributed by the nine provinces and the 2248 municipalities, thus increasing the attractiveness for national tourism thanks to a wide, accessible, safe and high quality offer. It could highlight the fifteen roads of Santiago, the nine wine routes, also a gastronomic tourism or an exquisite cultural and heritage offer. And if I put as an example my province, Zamora, would highlight the Romanesque of the city, the collegiate of Toro, the arrivals of the Duero or the Lake of Sanabria, to put just a few examples. The tourist attraction is also thanks to magnificent professionals who in the most difficult times have been able to give their best from the different fields: travel agencies, active tourism, restoration, guides. Ladies and gentlemen, for my community, Castile and León, tourism development is a real lever and revulsive for those more populous cores that require specific measures for those territories, with measures of silence for inland destinations and especially for those more populous areas, such as my land, Zamora, land of opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, enhancing from public institutions the promotion, marketing and accessibility of inland tourism for all the villages, regions and cities of the nine provinces of Castile and León is a clear bet to fight for this land, my land. For the People's Group, the commitment to tourism is clear, we have and will continue to do so. That is where our amendment is going to improve your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u214	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. The questioning of the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism again highlighted the inability of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to take advantage of one of Spain's great economic and social resources, such as tourism. We already knew the disdain with which one of the ministers of quota, Mr Garzón, responsible for consumption and personal opinion in the British tabloids, referred to tourism in the parliamentary seat. We also know that the Government attaches little importance to the sector's growth forecasts, which, unfortunately, are not only hit by the COVID-19 pandemic but also by the escalation of inflation, as well as by the increase in fuel and supply jams. I hope that the consequences of the tension in Ukraine and its severe impact on the European and world economy will not be added to these difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, I support the seventeen points in this non-legislative proposal that Mrs Rueda Perelló has explained, to which I should like to thank for the extension and detail of the very worked-out explanatory statement accompanying the text of her initiative. We cannot fall into the trap of the government's reports on the alleged goodness of our economy and employment, and even less so when Spain continues to be the most remote member of the European Union from the recovery of its GDP and employment, both in which tourism plays a crucial role for our country, and hence the need for the reinforcement measures raised in this initiative of the VOX Parliamentary Group. It should be recalled that the World Trade Organization, in its last annual report, made express reference to the fact that both trade in services and tourism will continue to be depressed, which justifies the adoption of all these emergency remedies. The Government's propaganda must be accused of concealing the great difficulties of the tourism sector, which are reflected in the reduction in the number of airport operations and in the level of expenditure paid by tourists, which is still far from the data prior to the emergence of the pandemic, but above all it has left us behind other countries similar to Spain, the case of France and Germany, which have advanced us as issuers. In fact, the restrictions on mobility, which were eaten in some autonomous communities, were used by other countries to attract travellers, and there are qualified reports that attribute a decrease in income from foreign tourism of the order of -59 %. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to miss the opportunity offered by this tourism initiative to point out the colossal disappointment that the Hermitage Museum has given up setting up one of its headquarters in Barcelona. It is difficult to understand the repudiation of the city council of this great project, because we were faced with a great opportunity that transcended the local sphere. I repeat, it was very good for Barcelona, for Catalonia and for Spain that the Hermitage had a headquarters among us, because precisely one of the great attractions of our country when it comes to attracting tourists is the quality and quantity of our cultural heritage. The movement of international travelers who come to Spain motivated by their culture is of the order of 21%, and both the promotion of our heritage and the diversity of cultural and artistic activity have a great effect on the tourist industry. And not only the culture, also the sports activities, case of the winter activities, where we have a magnificent network of ski and mountain stations. In this sense, the differences of political order that are being raised in order to promote the candidacy of Aragon and Catalonia in the organization of the Olympic Games of Winter 2030 are worrying for this subsector of the snow. Lost for Barcelona the Hermitage Museum, I hope other Spanish cities can regain the option. It also has traces of adding the Olympic candidacy of the Aragonese and Catalan Pyrenees. One wonders what this Government, which is unable to intervene in the support of these matters, is dedicated to, which would be a plus for our tourism and for the image of Spain. Finally, I would also like to echo in this debate the concern aroused in the past 2021 about the information about the move to another country from the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization, which has been here for almost half a century, in Madrid. Fortunately, this change has not materialized, but we are facing a warning for navigators and the Government should take it as another sign of the gradual loss of leadership in tourism, which is very bad for Spain's interests. I shall vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u216	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Denial]] Give up the intervention. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u217	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, today we are presented with a motion following an inquiry to the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, who we certainly believe is a missed opportunity. I want to tell you, first of all, that it is an extensive motion, but at many points we believe it is empty. It is true that many of these points we could support, but, as I say to you, we believe that it lacks concrete content in many points, in addition to the fact that many of its points are contradictory, because there are many competences that are delegated to the autonomous communities and here there is a mix of points, often meaningless, that makes it difficult for us to see them as a good opportunity to support tourism. In Citizens we have been defending necessary measures for the sector since the beginning of the pandemic crisis, which has been such a hard blow for a sector dependent on mobility and vital for our gross domestic product - it contributed almost 13% to our gross domestic product, before the pandemic. We have called for and recorded many measures, such as the acceleration of the resumption of the social tourism programme of the Imserso, to approve the implementation of specific packages and aids for SMEs and rural establishments and, through an amendment to the general budgets of the State, to declare tourism as a strategic sector of our country. Also, where we govern, the tourist sector indices show a committed management with this sector, from the support for the Gigantones, Gigantillos and Dancers of Burgos to the launch of tourist bonds in Andalusia and Castile and León. We have always committed ourselves, at all levels, to the tourism sector. We have helped bring great events, for example, in Andalusia, like the Sail-GP this summer, great tourist events that move a lot of money in the area where they are established. Thus, with concrete measures, where we govern, we have always opted for the tourism sector. In Andalusia, with all these measures that they have taken and many more have achieved a historic milestone by closing the year 2021 as the first tourist destination of the country for the first time, surpassing the rest of the communities, including Catalonia, the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, and being the one that most contributes to the increase of jobs of the Spanish hospitality, with 45,900 of the 183 000 new jobs. Reviewing his initiative, we find points that we can support; for example, the criticisms he makes of Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, an incomplete royal decree that had a weak amount and very difficult to comply that, thanks to advisors like those we have in the autonomous communities of Andalusia or Castile and León, we have been able to translate and help access many of the companies that stayed out. But, as I tell you, they always try to use their initiatives to introduce those extreme ideological measures that their party promotes. In fact, the point that develops the most is that of talking about immigration as you usually do, at the extremes. When they ask to promote and encourage certain aspects of tourism in our country so that other people or citizens from other countries can come, they do not include concrete measures; Citizens, yes. We promote and register initiatives to ensure that they have tax benefits, that there is a real attraction and that they can come here to work, as they say in one of the points, so that that teleworking of foreign people who also want to do tourism can do so. He also talks about extending and making them more flexible ERTE, something that attracts my attention because on two occasions - one in February 2021 - they voted not to extend ERTE and to help the self-employed, but here they do want to help the self-employed and ERTE, surely because you are also in the campaign and want to gather votes wherever you go. But, as I say to you, we believe that it is an empty motion, because normally when a motion like this is registered, it must lead to matters that, above all, the sector wants. Why haven't you made that request? A few weeks ago, from Exceltur, even a PART was requested for mature tourist destinations, something that has been asking for and requesting the sector from the ministry for a long time, but does not heed them. That is right: this ministry and this Government have not listened to the tourism sector. In short, I say to you that it is too broad and not very concrete, and in the end they are falling into the same way that this Government falls: in advertising measures that often make no sense and that remain empty, simply to drag some votes into the next election campaign. We will therefore see what it looks like if they accept any of the amendments of the People's Party, but we cannot yet tell them what we are going to vote on this motion. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u218	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u219	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one better than the people who live in communities with virtually a tourism monoculture to know the importance of the sector, but we also know that we have suffered the worst pandemic in the last hundred years and that, fortunately, this has happened with a decent government, a government that has put the health and lives of the Spanish ahead, because we must also reiterate that there was no better option, because without health there is no economy. [[Applauds]] And the Spaniards wonder what VOX's proposal was to deal with the virus. Don't do anything? Tell the Spaniards. Tell them that you would have preferred to have the brutal results of death that the United States has had. France, Germany, Italy and, by force, England bet on confinement, on sanitary and quarantine measures to fight the virus. I guess these countries will sound like you because they're our biggest tourism emitters, and VOZ knows perfectly well that he's lying. They lie constantly. They lie when they say that the measures taken by the Government have led tourism to an unsustainable situation. What this Government has done is to create a social shield to protect people, self-employed people and businesses. It has invested more than 52 billion in ERTE, in exemptions from social security payments, in benefits to self-employed people, and the measures it has taken have been the right ones. Look, in the 2008 economic crisis, while Mr. Abascal was warm in the chiringuito set up by Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre, with the right-wing austerity policies ruined businesses, self-employed people and workers. The number of the unemployed was shot to the limit of the unbearable. It has taken us ten years to recover from its disastrous management. Today, even in spite of the pandemic crisis, we are less unemployed than in 2019, and VOX hurts. It hurts them that we are below these 2019 unemployment rates. It hurts them, yes, and it hurts them even more than it is thanks to Yolanda Díaz's ERTE. It hurts them that it is in consensus with the unions, that it is in consensus with the business organizations. It hurts them that we have, without a doubt, the best Minister of Labour in Spain, and they talk about the results. VOX always drops his face at the moment of truth. It has voted against protecting the employment of millions of Spaniards, against the extraordinary benefit of self-employed people, against the rise of the minimum wage to enable them to live decently, against the rise of pensions. VOX has opposed - or abstained - all measures to support the sector. They voted that they did not - or abstained - in the various votes in which the ERTs were established or extended and now call for an extension. They abstained from the 4220 million urgent measures to support the sector, voted no to extraordinary measures for corporate solvency that injected 7 billion into businesses. VOX lies when it states that it is practically impossible to obtain such aid, when the Balearic Government has already granted it. Ladies and gentlemen, VOX is not ashamed to question aid to the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, two of the communities most affected by the pandemic precisely because of their economic dependence on tourism. Tell the Baleares entrepreneurs, tell them that they would have preferred more aid for Andalusia or Murcia at the expense of the Baleares and Canarias entrepreneurs. In passing, tell the canaries why they refrain from helping to alleviate the damage caused by the eruption of the volcano of La Palma. [[Applauds]] If you separate the envelope from the motion, your unconstitutional tuft, your hatred of the autonomous system, your xenophobia and your spirit of privatization comes out. VOX cares about two peppers because if it does, it would support the measures proposed by the Government and favour the sector; because if it did, it would support policies that fight the law of climate change, which is what endangers our beaches; if it did, it would bet on sustainable tourism over time, respectful of the environment, which is what will ensure that it has continuity. But you are the party of falsehood, of lying, because if you told the Spaniards what your real proposals are, they probably wouldn't vote for them or their families. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u220	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Pérez Abellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u221	Thank you, President. Look, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the Government of Spain has set up a protection network to protect companies, workers and workers through different mechanisms and tools. I'm going to put some examples on the table. The ERTEs have given certainty to some 3.5 million workers; at present, less than 120,000 workers are still in this situation. More than 340 000 self-employed persons have benefited from the cessation benefit. The ICO lines, which have facilitated financing worth more than EUR 18.3 billion, have helped save more than 130,000 companies in the tourism, leisure and cultural sector, says Rueda. More than €7 billion has been transferred to the autonomous communities in direct aid to SMEs and self-employed people, from which the tourism sector has benefited widely, with particular attention - as the partner who preceded me said - to Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands for its high dependence on tourism. A Royal Decree on Urgent Measures to Support the Tourism Sector, Hotel and Trade, and Tax Matters, has been adopted. The various interventions of the Mechanism for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience have been launched, such as the deployment of 59 million euros for twenty-two destinations, new tourist experiences plans, the Xacobeo Plan 2021-2022, tourism sustainability plans, Turespana campaign and a long range of initiatives promoted by the Secretariat of State for Tourism. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, all this is in spite of you. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain has been working to save our workers and our companies, while its ladies and gentlemen from VOX have taken advantage of this crisis to make a policy of confrontation that lacks rigour, of scientific solvency and away from all European governments. By reminding you, you have voted against the ERTE, the extraordinary benefit of self-regulation, the mortgage moratoriums, the guarantee of the supply of electricity, water or gas, and the rise of the minimum wage. I could go on. What love for Spain is, they don't have. If you really wanted to improve the lives of our citizens, you would have voted in favour of these measures, but we already know that your priority is not this, but to constantly confront the government and dispute the right-wing hegemony of the People's Party. They are more concerned about votes than about citizenship. On the other hand, the Government of Spain and our parliamentary group are focused on working for a just and sound recovery. We have a future plan, which is endorsed by the European Commission, which will drive our country towards a greener, more digital, more cohesive and more egalitarian Spain; a plan with EUR 3400 million, with a strategy that responds to the challenges facing the tourism sector in the medium and long term, and that will enable you to make progress in the recovery of international tourism, the transformation of the tourism model at the environmental, socio-economic and territorial levels and boost its competitiveness and digitalisation. Finally, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the action of this Government is contributing to the growth of our country's employment, economy and economy. Even in spite of you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. The Spanish economy closed in 2012 with a 5% growth, the largest in two decades. Spain closed the last year with the largest job creation since 2005, created 840 600 jobs, and the unemployment rate fell to 13.3%. Also, more than 90% of the target population is vaccinated, thanks to the efforts of our health care providers and the work of the Government and the autonomous communities. To add a recent data, from a few days ago, the Plan La Palma Renace, endowed with 9.5 million euros, to launch to the market twenty thousand bonds for better air connectivity. Therefore - and finally, Mr President - I advise you, Mr de VOX, to abandon your irrational and apocalyptic rhetoric and to base your parliamentary work on the rational debate and the will to work seriously for the sector and the citizenry. Of course, our position is against your motion. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u222	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda Perelló, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u223	We're working on a transactional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u224	Okay. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the non-existence of humanitarian corridors to safeguard the fundamental rights of migrant persons in transit within the borders of the European Union. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 173/000117]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u225	We turn to the next point, a motion following an urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the lack of humanitarian corridors to safeguard the fundamental rights of migrants in transit within the borders of the European Union. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u226	Good morning, almost afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The heading of the motion that we are presenting today states that, apart from the debate on migration, its origin or legal characterization, the substratum of the human condition of migrants underlies it and therefore the need to ensure their fundamental rights. It continues to point out that the lack of common policies on migration and its internal movement within the European Union is the result, inter alia, of the lack of political courage to confront with humanity and solidarity the phenomena of xenophobia and anti-Europeanism underlying the positions of some States that impede the formulation of common policies on immigration and asylum. It is also true, and I believe so, that we are all responsible for all of this: governments, legislators and I would say that even citizenship. The EU Government is also responsible for its lack of courage and leadership because it has not previously promoted the debate on a pact on migration and asylum, knowing for sure that the demographic and economic evolution of Europe and of the continents that surround us condemn us to be the target of this phenomenon, since the absence of regulation - or, rather, the concerned deregulation to which it has led the intention or position of some States - amounts to areas of discontrol where, as always, the weakest is the one that suffers. It is also the Government, which - despite the fact that what Mr Álvarez said was true that Spain cannot do so alone and that there are countries in Europe that are moving in a different direction towards the solution to this problem - has not shown the necessary or sufficient leadership, despite being a country, as he himself said - he said - of the first entry, because, without prejudice to the fact that such a position is increasingly shared, this would require those most affected to take a more proactive position, which has not been proved to date. But we are also responsible for our legislative and control role, but by omission, so, without prejudice to our guilt, we come here today to try to correct it in part and to promote government action in a certain direction, because that is the task of this motion - in the area of sharing responsibilities to which I referred earlier - to urge the Government to encourage measures leading to the regulation and protection of internal migration in the European Union and to the design of migration and asylum policies that respect the Community acquis on fundamental rights. He warned the minister in the interpellation that the axes of action in this matter must be the responsibility, adorned with solidarity and humanity, and the truth is that we can rarely agree more on that expression, but the problem is to translate it into reality. That is why this motion seeks to act in that direction, to translate into reality those commitments of solidarity and humanity. Firstly, to this end, it promotes the existence of corridors, which are typical human highways by which such migration, apart from its legal status, must be able to pass through the most extensive and undisputed pillar of the common European building, which is that of the free movement of persons, and this even leaving aside the scope of control of their regularity and of the sharing of responsibilities between all countries, which must be addressed but in another area and through other measures. Because that is precisely the key, if there is an undisputed area of unprotectedness, insecurity, infraction of order and risk to the life and integrity of many of these migrants, in our view, it is the result of the inability of the European actors-Commission and States in the main - to outline a common policy in order to control the regularity of their access, in order to recognise and the clear and unequivocal consequences of the situation of irregularity, and also and above all in order to implement the commitments of solidarity and humanity, as a pillar on which to build a genuine European policy on migration. And to this is added the scope of responsibility because there are many actors called upon to intervene in the solution of the problem. First, social actors and local authorities, as first and closest connoisseurs of the individual and human dimension of the problem. And, secondly, collectives, and with this I want to refer not only to those known in the health or educational fields or to the basic social services, but also specifically to the police, because it is their responsible participation, that of all of them, which can best protect the fundamental rights of each of these migrants, and even that of the correction of abuses, when they are to be given, and without their assistance, we also understand that there can be no effective solution. In addition, it is the regional institutions and autonomous communities that are responsible for the ownership and exercise of social measures and therefore the assumption of their cost, which gives rise to the understanding, first of all, that no solution will be effective without their assistance, and therefore a call by the territorial council is urgently needed so that they can contribute to this process proposals derived from their experience, secondly, to express or request that cities and regions be able to participate in the decision-making process of the European Pact on Migration and Asylum. But it is also the States and the European Union that are going to be the main players; they are supposed to be the necessary actors in the pact, although today they are the main remorse for its momentum. Apart from the clearly supranational dimension, the rules for shaping the will of its bodies called upon to take decisions in this area have now become the greatest obstacle to the agreement, and it is therefore necessary to urge these institutions to modify this decision-making process in the interests of the general supra-Community interest and even in the work of guaranteeing the most basic rights. That is why the attitude of the States and of the European Commission itself deserves our most serious criticism. We therefore call for the approval of this motion and of the measures it envisages. These are measures that we understand to lead the Government in a certain direction, in a direction that we believe is the right one, because it is aimed at providing legal security, on the one hand, the context of the field of emigration, but also at giving effective protection to the field of fundamental rights that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights preaches for all beings, for all people, for all men and women; by the way, be, as the song says, clandestine or illegal. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u227	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Oramas González-Moro spoke by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which also adopted a position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u228	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I think it's terrible that an immigrant died in the Bidasoa trying to cross France and that in recent years six other immigrants died, for imagine when a week ago, on the 15th, 17 people died in the Canary Islands or when last year, trying to get to Europe, 4,000 people died in the sea that separates us from Africa, four thousand people! We share with Mr Barandiaran that immigrants do not arrive in the Canary Islands or in Spain, they arrive in Europe, and you have to think about what they leave behind to get into that sea. Canary Islands and the political spokesmen of the Canary Coalition in the Senate and in Congress have cried out to this government, which was looking elsewhere at a terrible humanitarian drama, four thousand dead in 2021! We say that the Canary Islands can no longer do so. Indeed, there must be a European policy, but there must also be a determined policy of the Government of Spain. They no longer come from the Sahel, Morocco and Mauritania alone, they already come from Sri Lanka and Cameroon, because the Mediterranean route has been closed. Yesterday the vice-counsel and the councillor, of Podemos, of the Canary Islands, little suspect, have said that they no longer admit or welcome a minor, that from now on the Ministry of the Interior takes over because there are no resources left in the Canary Islands. Lanzarote and Fuerteventura no longer have the capacity to welcome anyone, and the Government is absent, and with deplorable conditions of recollection. I end up saying what Iratxe Serrano, of Podemos, says: A real shit the management of unaccompanied foreign minors. We don't take any more. That's the reality. We will support his motion, but we would have liked it better if we went to the southern border and said that the problem is not to go to Europe, but even that the problem at the moment is that the Canary Islands is not outside this country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u229	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u230	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We are grateful to talk about these issues in this House, we welcome the demand for safe entry routes and we think it is essential to take the general picture, focus a little wider, and the general picture has a name and the name is Europe fortitude. What is strong Europe? It is the externalisation of the borders of the European Union. I've been reviewing a security for sale investigation these days, which I think is from a Dutch university. Between 2014 and 2016, the European Union spent €17 billion on externalisation of borders, and every year companies like Indra or Airbus take about €30 billion; all that to manage borders with a business perspective, of course. In fact, the same study speaks of the European borders as deadly directly, institutional structures that kill, that produce death. Europe's strength is also the detention centres for foreigners, prisons for people without papers, who have committed an administrative offence. Europe fortitude is also being drawn up with ethnic criteria or, said colloquially, with racist criteria, carried out by the bodies and the security forces. Europe's strength is also deportations; the Spanish state between 2010 and 2019 has carried out more than two hundred thousand. Look, the next weekend will be the anniversary of the Tarajal - you will remember, fifteen dead people - and one of the survivors of the tragedy said: The Civil Guard was shooting in a jar. On the anniversary of the Tarajal we want to claim today the right to migration and the right to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u231	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u232	Thank you very much, President. Today we are discussing a proposal by the Basque Group on the absence of humanitarian corridors. [[The lady]] We have no doubt that we are talking about a very serious and very serious problem that sometimes costs lives and that, in any case, it always costs a tortuous pilgrimage for people who decide to flee their countries and leave their homes. In recent years it has been thousands of people who have died trying to reach Europe in search of protection, fleeing from misery, conflict and situations that threatened their lives. The lack of legal and secure access continues to cause many deaths today that could be avoided. We know what it means to be Europe's border and, in this regard, it is essential - we want to stress - to promote a commitment by the countries of the European Union to the activation of humanitarian corridors from countries that are suffering from conflict and that are generating displacement. It is also necessary to think about what is happening today on the border of the French State, which is gaining more and more prominence. The migratory flow from Africa, with the intention of these migrants in transit to reach neighbouring countries, passes mainly through this border, passes mainly through Irun. This border has long been under border control, which we can call racist and repressive, and is being exercised by the French State. The problem is growing day by day. The number of migrants arriving at the border crossing has doubled; in Irún they are arriving at an average of 25 or 30 migrants a day; more and more women arrive, accounting for 30 per cent of these migrants in transit in November. The Red Cross device in Irún served more than eight hundred people in January, many of them women, pregnant women and women who arrive with very young children, with babies. This is a touch of attention to a serious situation that needs to be resolved, because all these people need to be attended to. In this respect, my group has tabled a number of amendments with content which we believe complement the motion put forward by the Basque Group, with which it has already advanced that we certainly agree. On the one hand, we call for changes in the approach to access to the reception resources of migrants. In recent years, a tremendous effort has been made in Irún and there are many measures that have been put in place to try to provide some support to these migrants, to these people in transit. They have, of course, a contingency plan that contemplates the activation of different resources, but what we are told and denounced by the comrades who are managing this problem on the street and who are in the municipalities, is that there are different realities, and these different realities leave out these criteria of access to many people. These devices are aimed at people who have to meet a number of requirements: to be less than a year in the state, to have entered the state by the coast and who do not exceed three days in the night, but the reality, as I say, is very, very complex and there are many people who remain outside, who cannot cross in those three days, as former guardian minors. All these profiles remain outside and are therefore forced to wander, to stay and spend the nights on the street. That is why it is also being accepted that all these people can enter the cold device that manages the welfare area of the city hall. Therefore, I think we need to pay a little attention to it. The second amendment we are presenting is also about a problem that is becoming more and more apparent. We need specific resources for people with special vulnerability, taking into account gender, age and sexual orientation from a cross-cutting perspective. We are seeing more and more women, mothers of babies in many cases, who arrive, as I say, to the border of Irun. If these transit routes are, of course, unsafe for all people, the more they are, especially for women, and it is therefore very necessary to take this gender perspective into account. I ended up saying that talking about borders right now is talking about deaths. The Basque people have been, remain and want to remain, a host people. We must therefore make every effort to ensure that these terrible events do not recur. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u233	Thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guijarro Ceballos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u234	Eguerdi on, president. Eguerdi on, ladies and gentlemen. I will start with the important thing, what we are dealing with here today, which are the people, in this case the migrant people. Any death, it was said a moment ago, by a migration project is a tragedy and above all a collective failure; obviously, it is a failure for the victims, also for their families and for the international community. I insist, they are people, and that is why, even this morning again, it is so shameful to hear certain clearly racist and xenophobic speeches in the parliamentary seat. [[Applauds]] Foot on the wall, ladies and gentlemen, foot on the wall not to feed, not to endure as a country, speeches that embarrass us not as Spanish or Spanish, but as members of a human community. So, not a step back. For these migrant people we work, for that is also this rostrum, to work for all those people. The Government of Spain also works for them, with actions in migration policy that support us: resettlement programme for people from Syria, Iran, Afghanistan or Iraq; opening and maintaining many reception centres, resettlement of Afghan families in Operation Antigona. But, focusing on Euskadi, there are places for the international protection program, comprehensive reception managed by the Red Cross and, of course, also relief and rescue work by the security forces. Our migration policy is based on a comprehensive and cross-cutting approach, on a balance - it was said - between responsibility and solidarity. We are convinced that the Government takes the humanitarian tragedy of irregular migration very seriously, even more so in the times we live in. It is a great challenge, a great challenge that must be based on an inclusive look and on values as basic as respect for human rights and international treaties. We must continue to work on a dignified welcome in our country. That does give us a country mark, that does give us a Spain mark. In the cross-border issue raised by the PNV in its motion, measures must certainly be taken to prevent future tragedies. The creation of humanitarian corridors requires a number of circumstances that are different from the reality at the moment of the border between France and Spain, but it is true that we must continue to work on the negotiations in the European Pact. The Socialists and the Socialists defend the freedom of movement provided by this Schengen area that we have and Spain does not participate in the decision by which it has chosen France to re-establish border controls, it is a unilateral decision in which the Government of Spain, I insist, does not participate, and there is also a permanent dialogue with France on this issue. There is still not enough majority in the European Union to be able to establish humanitarian corridors, but don't hesitate, my party is already working in Europe to face this challenge. It was said, but it is true, that it is a European challenge, and that is why answers are needed in Europe. We need common rules for resettlement and humanitarian admission, an asylum policy that guarantees international protection, which also reviews the Dublin system, which is fostered by solidarity-based measures that promote the necessary equitable distribution for asylum-seekers. With regard to the sharing of these powers, we agree to facilitate the participation of cities and regions in this decision-making process under the new Immigration and Asylum Pact. In the case, for example, of the border between France and Spain, in Irún, in Hendaya, there is coordination between the Government, the autonomous community and the Irún City Council, which is, by the way, a city council which has turned in terms of reception with numerous resources, with tables of dialogue and permanent work. We must also be aware that on the border the stay of these people is a short stay, between a few hours and three days, because these people have their decided migration project, Spain is only the way to access their final destination, which are other European countries. We have been, are and will be a country of solidarity. We have European values that we share and practice, such as responsibility, humanity and international cooperation. Our legal and moral obligation is to continue to regard them as what they are, human beings to whom they were assigned a different fate in a completely unequal world. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u236	Eguerdi on, president. Ladies and gentlemen, last year, Spain had a sad record, it was the year in which the highest number of deaths of immigrants occurred trying to reach Spain. It's true that figures dance. If we look at the IOM report, it points out 1225 identified people who have died on that route, on that route, especially on the canary track, but if we go to the Walking Frontiers report it raises it up to four thousand. In that dance of figures one sees exactly one of the realities, and it is what happens on those routes when people are put at risk to try or improve their lives or to flee situations in which they cannot continue. While it is true that the phenomenon of migration is polyhedral - it is said in the motion, and I agree - it is also true that all these deaths are preventable. Because when we talk about humanitarian corridors - which we also agree - the fundamental humanitarian corridor that is needed and that is possible is the establishment of legal and secure channels. All those deaths didn't have to have occurred, no one has to be put at risk for trying to migrate. When we talk about legal and safe ways, we don't talk about a difficult concept, we talk about that in the Spanish embassies and consulates humanitarian visas can be applied for to Spain and apply for asylum and international protection without playing with life. The same applies to family reunification, another request for common sense, which is constantly being prevented both at home and within Europe. And what about work visas in order to be able to migrate to Europe to work without having to play life. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has several international conventions signed and has a responsibility. All these deaths are not a meteorological phenomenon, nor are they something that can be said to be avoided. No, as I say, means can be established in search of legal and safe ways, and also a posteriori before dramas such as that mentioned by Mrs Oramas last week in Lanzarote, when hundreds of people arrived in Lanzarote on a ship that was geo-located and, curiously, hours later, when they were able to call Maritime Rescue media, unfortunately, eighteen people had already died. We must take action, of course, and improve the protocols in rescue, but above all, as I say, we must encourage, and it is not a utopia, legal and safe routes. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not just to reach Europe. As the motion rightly points out, once there are migrants who are on European territory, when they move they are again put at risk by the closure of borders. We are seeing deaths on the Channel, in Poland, in the Alps and also, unfortunately, in Euskal Herria. There have been seven deaths throughout the Bidasoa border area in recent months linked to border control. That closure of some of these steps is producing a second drama: border closure is hampering the normal lives of cross-border people, but it is also violating the right of European citizens to transit. And then, these ethnic and racist checks are also causing more damage than the one they are trying to prevent, people in irregular situations crossing the border, are causing deaths. That is why we believe that this motion is necessary, but we see it as a patch, because we believe that we need to improve and focus on the origin, on those legal and secure ways. I ended by recalling that this situation of vulnerability is not only experienced by people in an irregular situation, but also by asylum-seekers. I therefore welcome what Mrs Garrido said, that the Dublin system is also causing a problem for people who have applied for asylum, so it should be opened up and migrants can apply for asylum anywhere and not just in the State of arrival. Without further ado, I insist again on legal and secure avenues. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u238	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months we have seen an increase in migratory pressure in Bidasoa, a situation which unfortunately - as has been said - has cost the lives of seven people over the past year and has led to an increase in border controls in France. The first thing we want to do from Citizens is to show solidarity with this drama. As liberals, we have always made it very clear from Citizens that people are holders of inalienable rights, precisely because of their status as human beings, and that these fundamental rights and freedoms must be guaranteed regardless of the situation or the place in which that person is located. The increase in migratory flows is highlighting how important this matter is, even on the most secure continent in the world, such as the European one. The tragedies experienced last year in Bidasoa, but also those experienced in Ceuta and Melilla, which we are seeing in the Canary Islands or on the Andalusian coasts, exemplify the saddest face of the inability of the members of the European Union to properly manage migratory flows. Faced with this challenge, we have traditionally encountered two positions. On the one hand, that of a certain goodism that does not want to look at this reality and that bets to say a lot and do nothing. The best example of this - and I want to remind you - was the management made by President Sánchez of the ship Aquarius - I do not say it myself, said the current vice president - that went to take the photo and then left them to their fate, without any kind of amparo or itinerary of inclusion. And on the other hand, we meet those who see in each and every one of the migrants who arrive in our country a threat and those who launch stigmatizing messages and what they do is criminalize the migrant population. A position that is more concerned with how to expel than how to host, that prefers to have migrants without opportunities in our streets than to have them with jobs and income statements. Liberals know that there is no need to choose between closing our eyes and closing our borders. In Spain and in Europe, from Citizens, we have always defended that there is a third path that is committed to an intelligent, efficient, safe and of course human migration policy. What we want is to study the case of each migrant and not collectivize, not give collective solutions but take into account the individual position. We want measures to be put in place to clearly distinguish between those fleeing war and persecution and those who decide to migrate for economic reasons, and it is not to give better treatment to one or the other, but to deal adequately with the handling of each of their files. We need to take steps to improve cooperation with countries of origin and transit, using our cooperation and trade agreements to generate opportunities in these regions, improving their stability and eliminating the root causes of migration flows. These agreements must also be accompanied by a return commitment to effect the return of persons, so that there are no irregular persons in our country. It is about offering new safe alternatives for those who decide to leave their homes. It cannot be that the only option these people have is to invest all their savings - be it many or few - in paying a mob trying to move our country on a journey that endangers its integrity, that endangers its life. From Citizens we do not want to condemn anyone to this horrific fate and we therefore bet on the opening up of these humanitarian corridors, in case of conflict or the search for alternatives to avoid the need to travel in order to apply for asylum. In short, we cannot understand how a debate on the left and the right is intoxicated which is absolutely necessary, especially in an ageing country like ours, which suffers a great deal in order to maintain the sustainability of pensions. Migration is not a threat but an opportunity, but it must be managed properly, with clear routes of inclusion and strict compliance with legality. Liberals have shown, for example, in the Government of Castile and León the power to host a land with so many opportunities and so much need for young people. It is now up to the Government to fulfil its responsibility and avoid an episode similar to that of 2015, when the national interests of the governments prevented a common migration and asylum policy in Europe that would also protect our borders. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u240	Thank you very much, President. There are some Pharisees who seem great to pray at the door of a clinic, but who stigmatize mercilessly people fleeing wars, people who simply seek a better life for their children. No one is illegal. My mother-in-law, according to these Pharisees, was an illegal woman who spent seventeen years in France working illegally to bring her children forward. I repeat, no one is illegal. In 2021 we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the Convention on the Status of Refugees, held in Geneva in 1951, with the painful contradiction of seeing how 68 million people in the world are forced to flee their homes in search of a better life or simply to save their lives. Less geniuses and more getting on these people's skin. With these figures, we cannot talk about our commitment to asylum. The absence of humanitarian corridors pushes thousands of people to seek irregular access. That is why concrete and ambitious commitments are needed to improve the protection of persons seeking asylum or who are simply refugees here in Spain. Finally, and finally, I would like from here to support the tireless work being done by the Regulatory Platform Ya, now with a popular legislative initiative to regularize the thousands and thousands of people who are here. As I have started, with a message addressed to the Pharisees: no one is illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u242	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, but I did want to set some key ideas. First of all, I would like to add to the recognition that these tragedies, of course, call upon us all. In the tragedy of migration deaths, we often talk about people who have migrated, as sometimes we also talk about people with disabilities. People are talked about with some adjective and, ultimately, I think we have to focus very consciously on what we are talking about people and that, therefore, the noun of people is much more relevant than the adjective or the characteristics that can follow. From this approach, the perspective that forces us to take this issue is that of human rights and, as has been pointed out here, that of a complex reality - polyhedral one was pointed out - in the question of immigration. But surely the best favor we can do in addressing a complex reality is also addressing it with the complicity of all. The motion also points to the participation of the different public administrations of cities and regions. I think it is a great good thing that in this polyhedral problem, in this complex reality it is necessary that all public administrations, all cities and regions involved also have a relevant role in determining the measures to be taken. The new Pact on Migration and Asylum is certainly an ideal tool for which to bet, but at the same time it should also be an appropriate tool for the legal realities that we have. Freedom of movement within the framework of the European Union and the Schengen Treaty should therefore be applied rigorously and not with arbitrary discrimination, applying clear criteria. There is no doubt that some thought should be given to this. I believe that there are complementary options, some very complex, as pointed out in the previous plenary, and others that are much more affordable. The issue links many European Union partners to many balances, but it is clear that there is a clear bet or a clear bet must be made on these humanitarian corridors. The complementary line of work is all that depends on the Spanish State, lines aimed at ending the uncertainty, both in the crossing of borders and in relation to the regulations governing the migrants. One last point: certain debates do nothing to help. Let the Campaign close the CIE - let me refer to my city, Barcelona - becomes the slogan...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u243	You have to finish up, Mr. Boadella.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u244	Yes, President, very briefly. That the Campaign We will close the CIE will feed the electoral campaign, although then it remains unfulfilled promises, it does not help in any way to address these kinds of immigration issues either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u245	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u246	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we talk about humanitarian corridors for people seeking refuge, and I want here today to remember and make a nice and meaningful tribute to the young Congolese refugee Moïse Mugenyi, killed this week by various people punched, kicked and tickled for claiming two days of non-payment at the kiosk where he worked in Rio de Janeiro. Moses found death in the country that his mother chose to seek refuge, live and raise her children, but they met with institutional racism, with a very violent society marked by centuries of slave domination that continues until today in the form of black, indigenous, gypsy, LGBTI, migrant genocide. Certainly, a humanitarian visa - humanitarian corridors- could have avoided this brutal racist and xenophobic murder of Moses: justice for Moses. [[Applauds]] As for the motion, we voted yes, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV. The main objectives of the humanitarian corridors are to avoid journeys with pateras across the Mediterranean, for example, which have already caused a very high number of deaths, of many boys and girls, as well as to prevent the exploitation of traffickers who profit from those fleeing the war or to allow persons in vulnerable situations to enter the territory of Spain legally with a humanitari visa - humanitarian visa, article of the Spanish State Asylum Act - and to have the possibility of submitting a subsequent asylum application. That is, humanitarian corridors are primarily a safe way for all people seeking refuge. And I say more, it is a safe way, because the issuance of humanitarian visas provides for the relevant controls by the Spanish authorities. The Minister of the Interior and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs are well aware that the Spanish State adheres to the Pact on Migration and Asylum, which strengthens a system that has been failing for years, with terrible consequences that put the lives and security of migrants and refugees at serious risk. A few political forces here in Congress have registered a Net Host PNL in this regard. The legal and secure avenues considered in the Asylum and Migration Pact are a fake, and that has to be said. They are very limited in scope, use resettlement in a very restricted manner and use humanitarian admission as an apparent substitute for the humanitarian visa system. That, no. The Migration and Asylum Pact proposes a set of procedures aimed at blocking foreign access to European countries. The Pact on Migration and Asylum supports and maintains Europe's strength. The data sing: the hot returns here in Spain - let's remember El Tarajal -, the CIEs, the xenophobic and discriminatory legislative and policy measures of countries such as Hungary, Greece, etc.; the summary and collective expulsions of asylum seekers to whom they systematically, illegally and violently send themselves to the borders of Bosnia, Belarus and Herzegovina; the criminalization of NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I have very little time. Adopt rescue and rescue policies for lives at sea, comply with the law of the sea, remove rescue and rescue restrictions on vessels and, please, urgently increase the Marine Rescue staff. Increasing its budget line, the Republican Group has been submitting amendments to this effect in the State General Budgets to demilitarize the patera bailouts because they generate delays, and delays at sea, in rescue, means a very specific thing: death. Stop militarizing because - I finish - while you with your amendments try to remove humanitarian corridors in a motion in this house, those on the far right are quoting Hannah Arendt. Please note that anti-racism is very grateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u247	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u248	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, open your eyes for the umpteenth time. Indeed, when you realize the reality of what is happening in this country and on this continent, it will be late. I know you don't like to talk about demography. They speak permanently of the planet, say such, say which, and never refer to the configurative element of states, which are people. People, demography, is what influences economies, is what influences culture, social configuration, political organizations. Once I mentioned here - I am going to do it again today - the wonderful Leopold Abbey who said: 'Do not ask what world we will leave your children, the question is which children we will leave this world'. [[Applauds]] I think it is one of the phrases that best describes the gravity of the situation and the significance of the situation we are experiencing. The demography of the nations also has another revealing phrase that my dear José Javier Esparza recently quoted at the meeting Southern Frontier, which we organized with the group of conservatives and reformists on the island of Gran Canaria Precisely to claim the protection of the southern border, which is the border that Spain has completely abandoned. He said that states are not empty containers, that if we put 80 million Nigerians in Germany, they don't make Germany, they make Nigeria. Nations are determined to be a populated territory. They are people with their culture, with their religion, with their political configuration, with their norms of coexistence. And all that is to replace those populations is necessarily to put an end to those nations and their identities. Ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon we are witnessing is not a minor migratory phenomenon, which of course has always existed throughout life. They're massive movements. They are true invasions that are no myth, that have also existed throughout history and have changed the course of it, even though perhaps this is the first time that the original Government has starred in it. Minister Escrivá has said that he wants to repopulate uninhabited territories of Spain abandoned with immigrants. It says this in its 2050 Plan, which they want to bring in 250 000 immigrants in the coming months; it is said by their media, like El País, that Spain needs 7 million immigrants in three decades to maintain prosperity. That is to say, they want to bring in 7 million immigrants by 2050, when their own media, as they publish in Moncloa, say that foreigners living in Spain now exceed 5.8 million. Ladies and gentlemen, there are not four refugees fleeing a war, no. There are millions that you need because Davos orders them, because the World Bank orders them, and because big capitals order them, and that's the reality. [[Applauds]] Because what you need is slave labor for the maintenance of economies, and that in a context of aging of birth and unprecedented non-indigenous birth. Ladies and gentlemen, look around, open your eyes and look at France, look at Germany or look at Sweden. The multicultural religion that you are expanding around the world, that eventual system in which we are all going to enrich each other's cultures, is a lie. Peaceful multiculturalism does not exist. Cultures have been imposing on one another since the beginning of time, and France is one of the best tests in our environment. In France there are more than seven hundred municipalities in which French law does not apply. It either applies the Islamic Shariah or the law of the strongest. There are more than seven hundred departments in which law enforcement can neither enter nor apply the law of that country, and that is going to happen sooner than later in Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that for your theatre you need the story of goodness, which is hypocrisy, but all the immigrants who die at sea is your fault, because you are the ones who throw them into the sea, who collaborate with the human trafficking mafias and with the NGOs and those responsible for their consciences, all this tragedy. And all that, because a number of billionaires are badly affected by Europe's demographic decline for their economies. But the rapporteur is one thing and the reality of the streets is another, and the reality is that mass immigration loads our neighborhoods and creates Spain's machetes, which is what you are creating. And we saw him the other day in Murcia with the amputation of his hand; we saw him with the machetes in Barcelona; we saw him with the boy who also beat machetes in Carabanchel; we saw him with the massive rapes; we saw him with so many situations that create insecurity and load our neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u249	You have to finish, Mrs. De Meer.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u250	But I have good news - and I am finished - for the Basque Nationalist Party, a message of hope, and it is that it will be a great Basque, from Amurrio specifically, who will end all the policies with which you are charging Spain. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u251	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u252	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, to say yes to this motion as a result of the questioning of the PNV is to say yes to irregular migration; that is to say, to non-compliance with the migration laws that we have adopted here; that is to say, non-compliance with the international agreements that Spain has signed, and that is to say, to the shameful business of the mafias who make money dealing with people. The People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote no to this motion. We only say yes to regular, orderly and labour-market-oriented migration. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion seeks to urge the government to take a number of measures on the sidelines, and even against the European Union's immigration policy, which the People's Party is in favour of. With this motion, the PNV seeks to promote an open border migration policy of free movement between the States of the European Union of irregular migrants, even when security itself has been forced upon entry. Are you aware of what you're asking for? Which country can be in favour of this? Irregular migration brings only problems, including more than 4,000 dead who drowned at sea in 2021; also the collapse of public services in many autonomous communities and municipalities, and also brings insecurity. Yes, insecurity. These days I have visited neighborhoods in Sabadell and Tarrasa that are very affected by irregular migration, and we have spoken to the neighbors. You know what they tell us? That if they do not have food, they have to steal to eat, and if they do not have housing to sleep and live, they occupy housing; and so there are entire neighborhoods in this country, because the migration policy of this government has increased in 2021 the arrival of irregular migrants by more than 51% compared to 2020, when it was already chaotic. The migration policy of the left, to which the PNV is now surprisingly added, is: I invite and you pay. Let us open borders and bring irregular migrants and seek life. By the way, I make a parenthesis: in Catalonia we meet with regular migrant groups. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that municipalities such as Sabadell, where the Socialist Party governs with Podemos, as also happens in so many others governed by the Republican Left, all immigrant groups that do not support the sovereignist process are being denied subsidies and subsidies? [[A honourable Member: Come on!]] In the People's Party we tell him that not one more lesson in terms of humanity and solidarity with migrants. What they do is racism. [[Applauds]] But in this motion the PNV goes even further. It calls for the Government's support for cities and regions to participate in the decision-making and implementation of European Union migration policies and, at the same time, for the establishment of humanitarian transit corridors to cross internal borders within European Union countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, I understand that you present this motion because you believe in it, don't you? And you present this motion because where you rule, you apply it, I understand that it is, right? So why do the streets of Irún have a lot of irregular migrants after the closure of France's borders, which has done its job, unlike the Spanish Government, of curbing irregular migration? [[shows a photo]] Municipalities such as Irun, in the Basque Country, are taking on the costs of opening pavilions and social assistance to host the avalanche of irregular migrants, and NGOs such as the Irungo Harrera network are denouncing the inhumane treatment being given in the Basque Country to irregular migrants sleeping on the streets, blaming the Basque Government. [[shows a document]] Where is the Basque Government? Where is solidarity with the PNV? Why don't you charter buses from Irún to accommodate us in those cities where the PNV governs? I think I'd be a good humanitarian runner, right? And I am sure that you will be grateful to the neighbours and neighbours of Irún who with their taxes are paying the immigration policy of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and also that of the Basque Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left and the PNV, your humanitarian policy of helping migrants is a policy of banner, and I refer to the facts. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what the PNV really wants? For a solution for irregular migrants who are in the Basque Country to leave, and for that they resort to UN Resolution 45/100, which is only for situations of armed conflict or persecution, which are not given here. I'm on my way, President. Stop deceiving and assume that the only migration policy is that which respects our laws and our borders, within the framework of the European Union, which cooperates with the countries of origin, which is committed to development cooperation and supports the State Security Forces and Bodies. All that is not this is betting on irregular immigration, which always brings problems. That is what this motion is proposing as a result of an inquiry to which we say no, as would also be said by the majority of Spanish society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u253	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u254	We're on it. As soon as we can introduce him.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u255	Thank you very much. - of the parliamentary group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, on the measures and promises of the Government to counter the disordered price of light. [[File number 173/000118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u256	We then move on to the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group concerning the measures and promises of the Government to deal with the unorthodox price of light. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u257	Thank you very much, Madam President. Get out of the way. We have a motion that is a consequence of an inquiry that comes to address a reality that has been accompanying us in many plenary sessions, in many working sessions in this Congress for a year, which is that of the unorthodox continuous increase in the price of light. One might have the feeling that in the end the increase in the price of light is like the famous cap, which tells you that it comes to your life or to your home for a few days and ends up settling for months, but years. And what we are proposing with this initiative is that we continue to take steps. We do not deny that some have been given, we have different readings about all of them, but, in any case, we value everything that has to do with the social shield and everything that has to do with ensuring that no one is cut off from the supply of electricity, water and electricity by simply not being able to pay for it. That seems to us to be a positive element. It is also a good thing that this Government is beginning to make progress on what has to do with the capacity to store electricity so that it can have its own reserves, or the stake for renewables. Similarly, we could talk about the local electrical marketing companies that have been working for a long time and in different places, especially in Catalonia and Euskal Herria, but also in other places, have been working for a long time, not exempt from difficulties, for legislation that makes them increasingly difficult or that has always made it very difficult for them to carry out their will to make a bet on electricity, renewable energy and, moreover, away from the control of oligopolies. They are all positive initiatives. Others, from our point of view, are not so much so, as, for example, attacking the rise in the price of electricity only through tax cuts, because while it is true that the reduction of taxes on citizens has something to do with the fall in VAT from 21 % to 10 %, it is no less true that companies also benefit from the fall to 0.5 of one tax and from 7 to 0 of another. Ultimately, and ultimately, what that also means is less resources for the State itself to be able to then make a more effective redistribution of those resources. So, we don't think that's enough. As we said, we believe that more is needed, because - and we point out at the beginning of this intervention - we are facing a global and structural problem, and we are also aware that we are facing that problem. But we also know that while we are doing these measures and we are seeing that none of them succeed in stopping it and evicting this problem from our lives, what we find is that energy poverty continues to grow and that energy poverty continues to install between us and ourselves. It's not because we and we, the people of Euskal Herria Bildu, say it, it's not because an observer or a critical observer with the electric oligopoly says it, it's because the FOESSA report of Caritas says it. That same report, which just two weeks ago had a high impact on the media, pointed out, together with the most well-known figure of the ten million people on the poverty line in the Spanish State, that of the ten indicators used to measure the risk of poverty of a person in relation to the reality in which he lives, three have to do with access to basic goods such as light, water and electricity, and that, precisely, of those goods was the most being cut off by citizens in order to maintain a decent living capacity. Therefore, we are faced with a reality that continues to challenge us directly, and I would say that it forces us to do much more. That is why we have presented this initiative, because at the same time we also continue to denounce - and I will not fail to do so either in this forum - how the electric oligopoly prefers nothing to be done, because when it is not dedicated to blackmailing the government by threatening me with power cuts to certain industries so that it does not touch the regulations, it is dedicated to continuing to amassing benefits that, of course, it does not intend to redistribute. That is why we tabled this motion. It is a motion that consists of eight points and proposes things such as, for example, proposing the organizational and legislative changes necessary to inspect, more agilely, and to increase sanctions to companies that may be exercising market power to alter the price of electricity and thus increase its profits. Nor is this a precaution or a preventive action, it is that we already know that electricians have been convicted by Spanish courts for making a position of market abuse, and thus inflating electricity prices. They have been convicted and have been sentenced to pay costs and sanctions which, incidentally, fall far short of what they have achieved by doing so. Therefore, if that is not changed, if we are not able to raise the sanctions, any electric will have the temptation to continue to resort to this cheat to then pay, because what they earn by failing is much more than what they have to pay for having done so. We also plan to carry out a thorough audit of the electricity system during 2022, detailing the actual electricity generation costs of the different technologies currently in place. Similarly, we propose that the measures taken in Royal Decree 17/2021 of 14 September for urgent measures to mitigate the impact of natural gas escalation on retail gas and electricity markets be reviewed, so as to put an end to the overpayment or falling profits from the sky. We also plan not to allow participation in any project from European funds, from the European Union's Transformation, Recovery and Resilience Funds to companies that have altered energy market prices, because if this has happened - and I have pointed out and I have found that it has happened, and it can be seen in the hemerotheque - it does not seem very reasonable that these companies can access to take the manna of millions that everyone says will come from the European Union. We are also promoting a Community change in the marginalist pricing system within the Council of Europe and in all the institutions of the European Union, because it is still outrageous that people have to pay the most expensive price for electricity as a whole. There are already those who explain it with much more accurate analogies, such as the price of meat and why you have to pay everything to the single mile and so on, but I think it is quite well understood that it is neither logical nor receipt. We also believe that the creation of an energy public enterprise must be promoted through legislative changes, that is, we do not give up the involvement of the public authorities in the economy, let alone that we do so in a sector from which benefits can even be reaped that could be paid back to the general public. We believe that we must bet decisively on achieving a climate neutrality scenario as quickly as possible, just as we believe that institutional campaigns must be carried out to promote a reduction in consumption not only among citizens and between consumers and consumers, but also among businesses, because we believe that we need to move towards a just, planned and democratic transition, and that to do so we need a public commitment, which means the full recovery of energy generation, transmission, distribution and management. That is the position that we have been moving and that we are shaping through this motion today. We know that there is an amendment, we are studying it and we are willing to try to reach some agreement. The only thing we raise and ask is that we be made clear a little bit more about the paragraph which gives rise to point 1 because, I sincerely say, the same problem is only mine, but when I read this, I referred directly to the Marx brothers and to the contracting party, because when it is said to push the necessary measures to address the issues that identify their conclusions, the non-permanent Commission of Congress for the study of the price of light and the improvement of the electricity system and, in particular, those relating to... I think that we could have a wording that is more precise, that is clearer and certainly more intelligible because, in the end, if we are accused of something to which we are in this policy at the moment is not at times too clear. Eskerrik milesker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by your groups, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia intervenes first, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u259	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, as the speaker says, we have been talking for many months about the need for measures to reduce the price of light. In fact, many measures have been taken: from the issue of tax reduction - which we have recently ratified its extension with a real decree - to other real decrees relating to energy policies, the two draft laws that are under way - that of the National Sustainability Fund and that of CO2. In short, every effort is being made to deal with a problem on which we also have to reflect, that is, why the price of fossil fuels is constantly rising. I believe that this is something that is behind all this problem and requires deep reflection, because it is not in our hands, in the hands of any government - at least so far - to curb this permanent increase in the price of fossil fuels. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, in this debate we have heard too often that the rise in the price of light - whose origin, as I say, lies in the rise in the prices of fossil fuels - is taking advantage of the energy transition, when the reality is that it is the energy transition to renewable energies that can only get us out of this spiral. Our country is tremendously dependent on those fossil fuels. However, thanks to the energy transition policies, a gradual reduction of this dependence is being achieved, which is actually what will finally make us control prices in the medium term. Just recently, a report published a few days ago valued that Spain is the country - within the European Union - which is in a clearer way reducing its dependence on fossil fuels. He spoke of the recent European Electricity Review, which reflects how wind, solar and other renewable energy sources have produced 46% of the total electricity consumed in our country this past year. We are therefore leading the way for fossil fuels, with a reduction of 8 percentage points in their share of our energy balance. The study considers Spain as a key driver in the growth of solar energy and wind energy in the European Union. In fact, it sets as an example the solar strategy developed in Spain that has almost doubled its solar energy production from 2019 to 2021, a period in which it has gone from 16 terawatts/hour to 26 terawatts/hour. This is indeed the right strategy, although, of course, from the point of view of our parliamentary group, there are structural problems which we must also address. For us, there are three key issues. The first, that the energy system is an oligopolistic system and, therefore, is not much less a perfect market system, at all. We have a number of companies - concrete, four - that dominate energy production and that also dominate legislation. In fact, as the intervener has mentioned, when it is not done to his liking they even launch messages that we could qualify as blackmail, as when they recently threatened with nuclear shutdown if it went ahead with the reduction of the fallen benefits of the sky. The second aspect that concerns us is that of the revolving doors, an issue which unfortunately continues to occur and which has a decisive impact on this collusion between politics and energy companies, something which we believe needs to be addressed. And, as a third aspect, we believe that it is very important that there is a public energy company in our country. We have said this repeatedly - it is an issue that we bring back over and over again - but we believe that it is essential; that is, a public enterprise would break that oligopoly that we currently have. And it should be remembered that, in most of our European environment and in the countries in which we live, public enterprise or public participation in energy companies is normal, as we are talking about a strategic sector. These are deep issues that also need to be addressed, that we have to address, and of course continue to move forward with the measures being taken and that are having a direct impact on the maintenance of the price of light. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u260	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u261	Thank you, President. Energy prices are of paramount importance in our economy, as in any other; we see how they impact on the CPI, we see how they impact on virtually all of our country's products and services. It is therefore very important to be able to contain these prices, energy prices, and to be as low as possible, which at least meet the reality of the costs of generating and transporting them. It is obvious that there is a problem with energy prices today, I believe that no one can question this reality; and when we know that there is a problem, our mission, our obligation is to find a solution, but to solve a problem it is important to diagnose them correctly, to analyse the origin of the problem, and we must propose measures to solve that problem. Mr Matute, in the motion you have put forward, you are proposing some measures with which we do not agree, some measures which we think are unrelated to what we believe to be the real problem we are experiencing; but you are also proposing some measures with which, on the other hand, we might come to agree. That is why we have tabled an amendment, because we believe that it is important to discuss them, because at the moment the biggest problem we see is that the price of electricity and the cost of it are not going hand in hand. The Government has promoted measures to curb the effect of wholesale prices on the receipt of consumers, and this, despite all the demagogy we have experienced from the right in recent months, is an unquestionable fact. In 2021, it is true, we have experienced the highest wholesale prices in history, in fact these wholesale prices have been twice as high as in 2018, and yet this has not been transferred directly to consumers. Look at it, the average of the receipts of light has been similar and even lower than those of 2018, however much they strive to deny it. The Government's measures have managed to prevent this excessive price rise from being transferred directly to the citizens of our country, in addition to protecting especially the most vulnerable individuals and families, but we know that this is not enough. We have a need-driven wholesale electricity market design; it has been used to boost the installation of renewable energies and has allowed them to be competitive and cost-effective. It is a market system that makes each offer for its opportunity cost, and that those electricity generators, with a lower opportunity cost and that it is precisely those that will allow us to lower the costs of electricity in the medium and long term, are benefited. And the current market has fulfilled that role; we have seen how renewable energies have been deployed massively, while the electricity generation, based on fossil fuels, has paralysed its growth and is clearly falling back. However, the price we see daily in the wholesale markets - and in this I think we have all become experts, in seeing exactly how much megawatt/hour is - is related to fossil fuels-based energies, not renewables, which are already majorities in our country. The cost of generating a megawatt/hour by photovoltaic or wind solar energy is no longer comparable to that of generating electricity by burning fossil fuels or by nuclear energy, it is much lower, and this is something that is not going to change, rather on the contrary, this difference will continue to increase over time, and this type of market where we mix clean renewable energies with CO2 stations, manageable energies with non-manageable, perhaps no longer the most appropriate. That is why we believe that a debate should be opened within the European Union, a debate that serves to link prices to energy costs again. Of course, it does not seem reasonable that a crisis in the natural gas sector, with which in Spain we produce between 15% and 20% of our electricity, should trigger the prices of all the technologies that are much cheaper, and this is something that does not happen only in our country, this is something that we have seen in all the countries of Europe, regardless of the energy mix they have. We believe that further progress must be made in our decarbonisation objectives. We listen to the right and the right constantly bind decarbonisation with high energy costs, bind decarbonisation with unemployment, bind decarbonisation with depopulation, and there is nothing further from the truth, quite the opposite. Decarbonisation and energy transition will give us real energy sovereignty. It will not be past times either the homeland coal or any of that, it will be our energy transition, because really what we do have are renewable resources, wind and sun, and that is what we have to continue to work on. The energy transition is a great opportunity for sustainable development, as the country's own business fabric constantly tells us, and it coincides with us; we just need to listen to them, really. We are clear on the way forward. We want that debate to open. We will continue to work to improve our energy system and continue to work to make it affordable, accessible and sustainable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u262	Thank you, Mr. Renau. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, first spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u263	Thank you very much, Madam President. The content of the motion defended by Mr Matute García de Jalón can only be agreed with his label. Indeed, there is an unorbited price of the price of light, which is what has put up the economy of Spain and dragged into growing social impoverishment. However, many of the eight blocks of proposals of this initiative are not the solution, on the contrary; if launched, it would complicate the objective of reducing the electricity bill and, moreover, do not respond to European cut-off measures, where, by the way, they have just incorporated the temporary green label into nuclear energy and gas. What is our government going to say now? Are they going to declare themselves insumious? Ladies and gentlemen, the governments of Pedro Sánchez have been formed since 2018 with the help of EH Bildu and, since then, the Spaniards have been suffering a colossal deception, which leads us today to be the Europeans who pay the most expensive electricity. In this period of more than three and a half years, Spain's energy sovereignty has been irresponsibly renounced, causing coal mining, our only indigenous fossil fuel, to disappear. So radical measures have been implemented that the Government has shut down power plants and is buying thermal plants from other countries - the case of Morocco - at the price they set for us. Jobs have been created there and we are left with the destruction of work here. In short, the energy evils come from a policy of which EH Bildu is a participant and supports. In 2018, the government threw away the magnificent report recently prepared by a qualified group of energy experts, freely proposed by all parliamentary groups. Today we suffer the consequences of the arrival of Sánchez and his minister Ribera, who are responsible for the disaster that seriously threatens the economic recovery of Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u264	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u265	Thank you, Madam President. In the debate that prompted the motion and in what some of the previous speakers have said about the reasons for the increase in the bill for light, it will have to be said that there are some private companies that, fundamentally, are looking for profit. We therefore support the motion insofar as it is pointing in the right direction and pointing out the responsibility of these private companies. The theory we know: free market, lower prices, competitiveness, etc. In the 1990s Minister Piqué said he was starting an electric revolution to start lowering prices. That's the theory. The practice is also known: oligopolies that control the market, enrich themselves and, moreover, what they do with these benefits is to accumulate an economic power that allows them also to have political power, through the revolving doors, through huge law firms that to any initiative of the democratic powers pose a series of impediments for them to move forward, also through their influence on the media, since these large energy companies conveniently water the private media. In the first half of 2021 the electric companies had 2847 million in profits, the three main energy companies, which means 11,000 euros every minute of profits.And where do these profits go? We already know that the social bonus does not want to be allocated; precisely these law firms are dedicated to raking up and making claims not to pay and have to assume the social bonus. Where do these benefits go? For dividends for shareholders - what I was saying - because what they are looking for is profit, and also a few very few salaries from their management teams. I have found data for 2020: the managers of these three companies - Iberdrola, Endesa and Naturg Y - will take 32 million wages in 2020 - I repeat, 32 million in a year -. Only a third of this 32 million, about 12.2 million, was taken away by a single person, the president of Iberdrola, Mr Ignacio Galán. That's five hundred times the average wage in the Spanish state. How can it be claimed that there is equality in a society when someone earns five hundred times more than the average earns? And let us not forget that they profit from a basic good such as electricity, necessary to live. We are therefore in favour of lowering the price of light and for equality and democratic health, and for this we must limit these energy companies and ultimately opt for their nationalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u267	Thank you, President. It is obvious that we are all concerned about the price of energy and its impact on the bill, but the truth is that from this motion I expected something more. You say that it is up to us to take measures of silence, but the truth is, Mr Matute, that I see no measure of silence which affects the formation of the price and, therefore, to reduce that energy price permanently, structurally and in the short term, and also in a context in which we are going to continue to see extreme volatility, because that is what the markets are predicting. They do not even propose a concrete measure to reformulate the tariff of the small consumer, the domestic consumer, who is indexed to the spot market and, therefore, is shifting all the volatility of the market price. They are only urging a third party, Europe, to change the marginalist system, which we believe needs to be revised, because the costs of technologies are far apart. But we cannot be at the expense of Europe, because Europe has already said no. This marginalist system is the same for all countries, but the main difference here is that most of the supply is indexed to that spot market and in Europe it is not, allowing them to diversify and obtain better prices. We are asked to review the measures of Decree 17/2020, but they do not say in what sense. I understand that it will be to go back to the initial drafting, so that the big electrics can pay more for the overpayment. But it is a measure that has not disappeared from that decree, but has been nuanced by the consequences of it. The return would pose problems for the industry, such as closures, ERTE or ERE, and that involves destruction of employment, something nobody wants, but also closure of renewable plants, because this was denounced by the association of renewables. Moreover, this measure does not really affect the formation of the price and, therefore, neither does it affect a fall in the market price. It is true that if it is on pay it is destined to the tariff deficit lowers the invoice, but not because they lower the prices, but because it decreases a part of the invoice that has nothing to do with the price of energy, but it is a part that is paid for a political decision. Then we would find that one part would mean a drop, but another part the price would continue to rise. However, I am surprised that they do not say anything about a measure that exists in that decree and that it can affect the formation of the price, such as that of the primary energy auctions, a measure that the Government has not taken out and that should have been done until 31 March, and neither do you urge it to be complied with. It involves putting on the forward market, a market with little liquidity and residual, a percentage of that energy of those dominant companies, which do not lead to that market because they operate on bilateral contracts with their traders outside those markets in the future. This could be interesting for them to put in that energy and for us to reduce those prices and achieve much more certain and, moreover, more competitive prices. They are also planning the creation of a public energy company and public marketing companies, I think assuming that they are per se more efficient and that they will affect prices. I think this is a lot to assume, but it would have to be thoroughly analyzed. I do not believe, as many say, that it would be an intervention of those assets that are intended to be withdrawn when there are concessions that end, because we will have to consider what we want to do with them. But I do believe that the creation of a public energy company does not directly imply a reduction in electricity prices. Because what assets would I count on? It is that between 2024 and 2029 865 megawatts expire which would account for 0.5% of the capacity of the Spanish system, and it is in 2040 when the permits of the larger plants begin to expire. For the time being, therefore, it would not serve to cushion such short-term prices or to affect that price. Then we'd see. As for marketers, experience tells us that they do not have lower prices, and that the marketing strategy, regardless of whether it is public or private, would have to be based on competitive market standards if we do not want to have losses and that then those losses have to be borne by the citizen, if it is a public enterprise. Moreover, the trading companies do not have the capacity to influence the price simply because they do not participate in those energy markets. Finally, they propose to establish a decarbonisation horizon for the year 2040. This issue was already discussed in the Climate Change Act, with a very ambitious road map to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. As far as the rest of the measures are concerned, we can share them even if they do not lead to a break in the energy price of the invoice, which can be deterrent to inspection and sanctioning measures. As for not allowing participation in any project from the European funds of companies that have altered prices in the energy market in recent years, we might agree; in fact, it has already been done in the Waste Act. It must also be said that it is true that two companies were sanctioned for altering prices, but right now, in these exceptional circumstances, it is up to the CNMC to carry out these inspections, although at the moment it has found absolutely nothing. We can also share the need for a cost audit. And as far as institutional campaigns are concerned, it must be said that the IDAE and the Autonomous Communities are already doing so. We would have liked to see here also some much more concrete measure. That is why, given that there are many points, we would also like to see whether they are going to accept any amendments and see what remains of the motion put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u268	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u269	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, since January 2021, more than a year ago, there has been no debate in this Congress on the unstoppable rise in the bill for light. [[The lady]] Personally, I have already lost count of the times I have come up to this rostrum to talk about this subject. And you know the worst? That, in spite of everything, the price of electricity remains at unsustainable levels. The old parties, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, complain that citizens say politicians talk a lot and do nothing. This long year we have discussed the decrees that the Government has brought, while the Spaniards continue to see how their bills keep coming up. Ladies and gentlemen, we live on the day of the marmot, but there is one fact that, unfortunately, never remains the same: the Spaniards, every time they wake up, see how the light is becoming more and more expensive. That's a nightmare. Liberals have been proposing for months in different initiatives, including in the amendments we have tabled to the General Budgets of the State, that an energy table be created where we really work for solutions to the rise of the bill of light and where the various involved in the sector and the political parties can work for a common objective, that energy access is not a luxury for families nor a burden for our companies, and we also do so by respecting and fulfilling the objectives set out to eliminate CO2 emissions. But no, because this government can more ideology and meet its partners than the real needs of Spanish families, businesses and industries. Government gentlemen, no one believed their promise that the Spaniards would pay less this year, that they would pay the same as 2018, but using a captivating calculation not to assume reality is to take us for fools. His Government also abolished at the end of the year the extraordinary reduction of 96% of the electricity bill charges it had applied since September, and beyond that, to what we have forced since the opposition, they have not proposed any concrete measures to alleviate the price escalation that continues in 2022. I turn to the content of this motion. We share the general objective of the motion, of course, that the price of light should not continue to rise and take action. However, seeking to do so on the basis of applauding the intervention of markets perpetrated by the Government in September only goes against the real interests of citizens. The European Commission informed the Government of this by its letter of 25 November, in which it expressed its concern about these interventionist measures. But, after all, we cannot expect more of a formation like Bildu, and less when we talk about energy or the European Union, issues that require a deeper approach than the national populism that characterizes them can provide. In the fifth point of their motion, they make a proposal which clearly indicates that they do not know what the marginalist pricing system of the European Union is or that they do not care, because they know that their proposal is impracticable. This absolute disinterest in matters other than separatism or radical anticapitalism should temper it, at least to keep appearances in this House. Your proposal to reach the Council of the European Union at the European Council would be received with even less support than those that the Government had at the time, but it would be received with surprise, to say the least, within the Council of Europe, since there are no Community changes in the marginalist pricing system, as you ask. The Council of Europe is a body outside the European Union. We know that Bildu does not care much about the issues dealt with in the Council of Europe, such as human rights, but that is no excuse to ignore his duties. If you're going to make such radical proposals, at least know where you have to address them. We all know their service history and the general interest of the Spanish, and we are seeing it with their attitude towards labour reform, but if they make proposals that affect both households and businesses, not only Spanish, but the whole of the European Union, we ask them not for moderation, but for some seriousness. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u270	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u271	Thank you very much, President. Inflation was 6% in January, which was the second month with the most expensive electricity in history. Also the last year has been the most expensive electricity in history. But the benefits of electric oligopoly, equal or'overcoming. They're obscene benefits. Even if there is a crisis or no crisis or inflation makes us poorer, they always win, taking advantage, of course, of the fallen benefits of heaven and darkness and the affluence of an absolutely opaque and advantageous pricing system. Compromís, Más País-Equo and Nueva Canarias submitted an application in August for the creation of a commission of inquiry in order to know the causes, the reasons and the fixing of the price of light. We wanted a serious,rigorous debate, but above all we wanted to find solutions between all the Members and the people who appear. We wanted to put some light on in such a dark market. Finally, the commission was not approved, because the Government submitted a working commission on 28 September and made it clear that the commission would be set up during the session at which its establishment was approved. [[Pause]] We don't know anything anymore. Not only has the light not been made, but the noise also went away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u272	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the same group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u273	Thank you, President. From the 95 euros megawatt/hour of Filomena, exactly a year ago, to the 384 euros megawatt/hour - historical maximum - of December, the government has gone urgently putting patches in the form of real decrees to a wheel that takes too many punctures and that only makes it delay, if what we want is to reach the solution for the electricity market. We already know that too often the urgency ends up postponing the important. There we go, riding a bike, when we should stop to reflect if what needs to be done is to change the vehicle. What Bildu proposes is precisely a technical stop, which we share, albeit not in all its points, but in terms of controlling the companies that run the market, auditing the market itself or reviewing whether the patch that was put in place to curb the fallen profits of the sky has leaks. There is much agreement, especially if the stop serves to modify the marginalist system so that energies such as hydroelectric or nuclear power, for example, are left out of it, at least in part, as France does with nuclear power, establishing a fixed selling price compulsory for all traders on the basis of their market share, without distinction, without privileges. The energy market system needs to be reformed from top to bottom, as was done in 1998 with the Electricity Act, and also urgently. It is also important to do so from the new energy model of the Energy Union Framework Strategy, which presents a citizen-centred vision, so that - and I quote - they take on the energy transition, take advantage of new technologies to reduce their bills, participate actively in the market and are protected in the event of energy poverty. But what's the real situation? What customers assume is that they have to pay the bills, if they can, that they fail to take advantage of the technologies to reduce costs for the old-fashioned ones and that they are dragged away by an inflexible marginalist market, which they cannot access. They therefore need a government willing to turn the ministry's bicycle into a tandem in which to ride together. In many cases, the measures that thrive are not those that we agree in this House, but those that validate oligopoly. Measures of general interest are not approved, but those of interest to the generals of the system. Because how long did the oligopoly take to put the cry in the sky when the CO2 payment reduction was approved, not issued? If even the nuclears threatened to shut down! Even if we do not agree with the creation of a public energy, we will vote in favour of this motion and we will do so with a Tandem mentality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u274	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u275	Even at the risk of tempting luck and not in the spirit of forcing Murphy's law, I want to begin by celebrating that no spokesman has referred to the Castile and Lion campaign. [[Applauds]] He invited spokespersons and spokespersons to intervene to imitate us. I would like to thank Euskal Herria Bildu for raising this debate. I also appreciate the good tone and, from the differences, the contributions, some very intelligent, that have been heard here. Don't expect mine to be too much, because I'm only going to repeat speeches. That is why it is timely and ironic that this debate takes place just on the day when the European Commission - I would say bad day - has published the European Union's final complementary delegated act on the taxonomy of sustainable activities and has given the final approval to the text that labels fossil gas and nuclear as green, with a view to private sector investment. We see this as a step backwards in the fight against climate change and the ecological transition, as well as maintaining the marginalist pricing system, to which Mr Matute's motion refers. He said that the position of Esquerra is less known. Energy policy must meet a threefold objective, what we call the energy trilemma: ensuring security and quality of supply, achieving decarbonisation objectives and maintaining competitive prices. Because of the current situation, it is imperative that those who pursue the common good, in particular the public authorities, focus on the third aspect of the mentioned trilemma. The exponential increase in the price of electricity and gas is a global phenomenon, but with additional implications in the Spanish case, because this phenomenon is aggravated, as has been said, by the lack of competition in the energy sector. In the Spanish State there are de facto territorial monopolies, dominant companies in the sectors of generation, distribution and marketing divided by zones, which allows, among other things, to make use of captive hydraulic energy that does not help to control the price of energy at exceptional times such as the current one. All this, Mr Matute, was already proposed by the Republican Left, not only to you, but to all the spokespersons of the Ecological Transitional Commission in a non-legislative proposal with eight cost-free measures for taxpayers and we understand that silently. Modestly and seeing that a new opinion is being raised, we intend to present it again. Where to act to lower the electric bill? Basically, where I have told you, increasing competition in the Spanish electricity market; avoiding the concentration of a few business groups; effectively separating activities from large companies; with greater intervention in the regulator; with taxation, with harmonisation of taxation in all final energy sources; giving long-term economic signals for investments in clean technologies; establishing intense, progressive and fiscally neutral CO2 rates; and implementing the 11th final provision of the Climate Change Act, which will turn one year in May and which obliges us to have a new electricity sector law by May. And a lot more than in a second I can't tell you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u277	Gentlemen of Bildu, only those who have the vocation to serve Spain should sit in this House and we all know that you are not here for that. [[Applauds]] You have no moral authority to defend any cause in this House, because the first cause that any good politician should defend is life and you do not do so. You continue to think that there are causes that justify death, that your causes did justify the death of innocent people, and that is why we cannot argue with you as if you were another parliamentary group. It is absolutely impossible for us, because we cannot forget where you come from, who you are, why you are here and how much innocent blood was shed so that you could get to where you are. [[Applauds]] So no, gentlemen of Bildu, you have no moral authority to go up to this rostrum or to talk about the price of light or to talk about anything, because the mere fact that you are here is a stab at the back of democracy and those who died to defend it, is a stab at the back of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But, as much as this cruel injustice hurts us, the reality is that you are here and that today you come to reproach with your small mouth, to scold only a little bit the government you support, the government that could not carry out any of your projects without you and that has not kept your promise to lower the price of light. They'll forgive me, but you have to be a hypocrite. Does the Lemoniz nuclear power plant sound like anything to you, gentlemen of Bildu? The 1970s were going on and then we didn't even know what climate change was; however, theirs were already used thoroughly to paralyze their construction. Up to three hundred times it was attacked and on 17 March 1978 its predecessors, Lords of Bildu, planted a bomb that failed to paralyze that nuclear project, but which took forward the lives of the first two victims of their ecological struggle, which they have been colonizing since then. There were two humble workers, Andrés Guerra and Alberto Negro, and there were fourteen others wounded. A year later, in 1979, they planted a second bomb that caused the death of another worker, Ángel Baños, but, as they still did not achieve their goal, on 29 January 1981 they kidnapped José María Ryan. The following day they issued a communiqué in which they conditioned their release on the decision of the Spanish Government to demolish the nuclear power plant within seven days. Remember, gentlemen of Bildu? Because thousands of people went to the streets to ask their terrorists, those whom you protect and honor, not to fulfill their threat, but for nothing, as it did not serve years later with Miguel Ángel Blanco. On the night of 6 February, he was shot in a jar and left his body abandoned on a forest road. He was thirty-eight years old and five children and he was killed only because he worked as a chief engineer in the construction of the Lemoniz nuclear power plant. [[Applauds]] They did the same thing weeks later with their heroic substitute, Ángel Pascual Mújica, in front of their own son. In total, five murders. It was the blood of five innocent people that served them to achieve their goal, cruelly considered then as one of ETA's great victories to which the Socialist government of Felipe González sadly contributed by approving its famous nuclear moratorium three years later in 1984. But the dismantling of the Lemoniz plant not only cost us the lives of five innocent people, something that could not be paid even with all the gold in the world. It also cost us EUR 6 billion, to which we must add what cost us the dismantling of other power plants that were being built in those years. Don't you think that in today's light receipt we're not paying for the consequences of your yesterday's decisions? Well, of course we're paying them. And not only that, but if all the nuclear power plants that were planned had been built, those whose energy is now being considered as green energy, we would probably not see ourselves today as we see ourselves: poor and energy-dependent, unable to achieve for our citizens a fair price for the light they consume. [[Applauds]] You, with your political, selfish and murderous opportunism, are directly responsible for the high price we pay for light. You, like the Socialist Party, have since contributed to the loss of our country's energy sovereignty, which has led us to the situation that now has the defachability to denounce. How can you come here to say to the Government - to your Government, to that Government you support - that your measures have not served to end the energy poverty that you have contributed to generating? You, that the only thing you have brought to our country and your own land has been death and ruin. Gentlemen of Bildu, for us there is only one thing you can do in this House: go up to this rostrum and deny what your predecessors did. publicly acknowledge that this was monstrous, that they would never have had to resort to crime to achieve their goals, that they sincerely repent, that they are hurt by every innocent victim they caused and that they will contribute to the clarification of the pending attacks and the reparation of the victims. If you do not, we will have no choice but to keep reminding all the Spaniards in each of our speeches what you are and where you come from, because we simply cannot allow the death of so many innocent victims, for all of us and for our freedom, to have been in vain. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u278	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u279	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today Bildu brings us here a motion concerning the unfulfilled measures and false promises of the Government of Sánchez regarding the excessive electricity cost that we are unfortunately paying all Spaniards, and it does so by the hand of a reflection that we have denounced in my group and that the Spaniards suffer in our pockets: the breach of Sánchez's promise, which was that all citizens with an average consumption at the end of 2021 would pay a similar amount to that they paid in 2018. That, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen, and despite what Mr Renau has said here, is a new lie from the President of the Government of all Spaniards. In addition, the Member of Parliament for Bildu says that the energy cost is due to neoliberal policies and remains so wide, when reality shows us that the energy cost comes from the harmful policies, also in the energy sector, of the Sanchist Government, which you have put in the direction of the State. So don't come up with accounts or stories about the bill of light, because Sanchez's failure and lies are Bildu's failure and lies. You, Mr Bildu, in your question to the Vice-President, and to the greatest dishonor of this House, emphasized the marketing of the basic rights of the Spaniards, when you, Mr Bildu, were the political arm of the ETA assassins, who have trampled on the fundamental right to life of more than eight hundred and fifty innocents simply and plainly for not thinking like you. [[Applauds]] You, Parliamentarians of Bildu, tell the truth: here all you are concerned about is the imprisonment of those fifty murderers who mistreated and destroyed the lives of hundreds and hundreds of Spanish families. Ladies and gentlemen of Bildu and the Socialist Party, if you really want to lower the energy price for all the Spaniards you only have to pay attention to the measures that my political group has been proposing since the start of the parliamentary term, such as passing those 4143 million of the regulatory costs to the general state budgets; or lowering the VAT on the electricity bill from 21 % to 4 %; or abolishing the tax on electricity generation; or lowering the VAT on gas supply from 21 % to 10 %; or lowering that 50 % of the tax on hydrocarbons for domestic consumers. They are coherent and sensible measures such as those implemented by European Union countries such as Poland, France, Germany and Italy. But the problem with this government is that in order to implement these measures, and thus lower the energy price, they would have to fasten their belts and that with them we already know that it is impossible. What you, gentlemen of the Government, prefer is that, on the basis of more taxes, we Spanish people suffer from the abuse of their policies in our pockets. Hence the high energy cost of our country has risen much more than in any country in our environment. My political group intends to have a competitive energy price, a security of supply 365 days a year and a sustainable energy. But a few days ago, you - your Government -, contrary to the decision of the rest of the European Union, rejected the European Commission's proposal for the application of green taxonomy to invest in gas and nuclear energy with European funds for ideological prejudice. By the way, as has already been said here, today Brussels has just turned its back on them and approved it definitively. With this, as I said, investments could be made, such as the expansion of electricity and energy interconnections, all of which are necessary to decarbonize energy and maintain security of supply, which would make us converge towards a competitive energy price with the countries in our environment. [[The lady]] That is key, because only in our country's intensive industry has its harmful policies meant an increase in energy costs three to six times more than it had been paying a year and a half ago. They are sectors such as metallurgical, pharmaceutical, chemical or automotive, in which only in my community, Aragon, or in the Community of Castile and León there are more than 65,000 indirect jobs that, because of their harmful politics, are today in grave danger. In short, gentlemen of the Socialist Party and partners of Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u280	Mr. Herrero, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u281	I'll finish it, President. In short, as I said, Socialist Party gentlemen and ultra-left Sanchez partners, stop experimenting with their ideological transition and really work for a fair ecological transition, because the Spanish, employment and industries in our country will thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u282	Thank you, Mr. Herrero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute, you asked whether your parliamentary group accepts the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u283	Yes, Madam President, we are working on the possibility of a compromise amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u284	All right, thank you very much. When you have the text, please send it to us. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the constitutional observance of the Government's legislative agenda. [[File number 173/000119]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u285	We moved on to the last item on the agenda. Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the constitutional observance of the Government's legislative programme. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u286	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Our motion denounces and calls to reverse the serious institutional and democratic deterioration caused by the action of this Government, which must be stopped and to which they must respond. Today they have put images to this motion. The shameful control session they have been taking has shown the degree of deterioration in which they add to this House, the lack of respect for it and, more importantly, all the Spaniards we represent. [[Applauds]] The spectacle of the ministers of the Government of Spain - who are constitutionally to be of all - launching unbridled electoral rallies plagued with bulls and introduced by socialist deputies as teloneros has no match. You are well aware of the ill-treatment of Castile and León since Pedro Sánchez arrived in the Government, with budgets that have cancelled or delayed essential investments, with decisions that drown our territory by blocking railway communications or attacking the sectors that are supporting our rural areas and without which neither 400 nor 10,000 sheets written from the carpet will be able to stop depopulation. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, you are filled with democracy as you repeatedly attack each of the basic pillars of our democracy. You have left nothing standing at this time: equality, freedom of expression, respect for the media, transparency, attacks on the powers of the State and the institutions, that is to say, on anything other than you and your convenience. With what self-congratulation the Minister of the Presidency spoke the past plenary on the laws passed, when they add up to their one hundred and fifteen royal decrees-laws since they came to the government, scorning the Legislative Power! This is also said by the Alternatives Foundation, not just the PP. What the President-in-Office has not spoken about, but what I will remind you of, is those bills on urgent processing fraud, because they are still blocked. He was also forgotten that at the worst time, at the most painful time of the pandemic, they used this emergency as a smokescreen to hide non-urgent reforms outside the pandemic. The Constitutional Court has said so and has affected them by the use of an exceptional instrument such as the Royal Decree-Law, just as it has annulled and declared unconstitutional two states of alarm. Of course, he also ignored a thousand and two hundred breaches of the Transparency Act or the multiplication of advisors in order not to respond to our requirements or to refer us to the websites. Nor did the Minister recall having turned the courts into individual legislators or executives through a reform of the Law Regulating the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction; by the way, the only one who have been able to deal with emergencies from a legal framework adapted to the reality of this terrible pandemic without injuring fundamental rights. Obviously, he ignored the permanent veto of the government on any initiative of the opposition and, more importantly, the veto of the legislature, leaving the gains of a democratic vote to no effect, as has happened with the VAT of hairdressers. Of course, what was he going to talk about the mockery or the attack on the judicial, advisory or technical bodies, because that allows them to follow in the utmost arbitrariness. The list would be very long and I do not have time, but I believe that you, those who believe in respect for the institutions and the Constitution, will agree with me that it is essential that we continue to denounce your authoritarian ways - that is, with makeup of progress - and that we continue to demand legal certainty and instruments that adapt to emergencies and the pandemic. So let's say no to the VOX amendment, because you say that you do not know what appears there, that claim - let's call it what we call it - of a suitable legal instrument. I can give you many quotes of authority: academics who have written to the full in detail; higher courts of justice over and over again, in terrible obiter dictates demanding that the legislator perform his function; the Council of State, without going further in Opinion 213/2021; the Supreme Court repeatedly, but, to quote one, in Judgement 719 of the same year. So, of course there's that cry! Then we can call it what they want, but it is imperative that we have legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen who support the Government, there is no purpose of amendment and this is very serious. The most important thing that Minister Bolaños said - and probably the only truth - in the inquiry that he brought about this motion in December was: We to ours. Indeed, because President Sánchez will pass with his Government to be the one of me, me, with me, so long as he stays in Moncloa for his own sake. They will not hesitate - they have not - to betray their voters, the rest of the Spaniards, the institutions and, in short, democracy. Others democratically give the voice to the citizens. Take note, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u287	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u288	Thank you. With the venom. Mrs. Moro Almaraz, yesterday Mrs. Pastor came down from the co-governance donkey - Sánchez's interested fantasy - after more than a year in which you have been talking about her in terms of unwavering adherence. You, starting with Mr. Married and following Mrs. Cuca. But, fortunately, that accession has broken, and then I think I can see that our teachings against that pilgrim ideation have not been in vain. Now, you insist again on the law of pandemics, which is like a nervous tic of Mr. Married that you repeat - I tell you with the utmost affection - what striped record and that we have to amend by opposing that point four of your motion. [[laughs]] Everything you say about doctrinal and jurisprudential authorities is not true; nor is your quotation distorted by the opinion of the Council of State you have quoted. I will read to you what the judgment of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court of 14 September 2021 says: The normative coverage of the measures that the health authorities consider urgent and necessary for public health and imply limitation or restriction of fundamental rights is found in the health legislation, in particular in the Organic Law 3/1986 on Special Measures in the Field of Public Health, in the General Law on Health and in the General Law on Public Health. You should be aware of this sentence and your group as well, and you should stop changing the name of that ridiculous plan B, that all you intended was to reform a line of one paragraph of an article of a law with purely exploratory scope for this now megalomaniac, pretentious and crazy pandemic law name. Moreover, for this group it is somewhat inconclusive that Sánchez is a despot, a despot in the sense of Tocqueville, who says of the despot that he is the one who, while considering the excellence of freedom, only wants it for himself. [[Applauds]] Or, in more classic terms if you want, he is a tyrant in Plato's terms in his Gorgias dialogue: Since someone has to rule the city, either acts tyrannically or, on the contrary, is a follower of the legitimate constitution. This is Sanchez. But Sánchez's attacks - which, as you have said, are concentrated in less than a year and have given rise to five rulings by the Constitutional Court that leave him in this ignominious figure of the despot or tyrant - are ways that his party fights timidly and partially, without conviction. Only the determination of VOX has succeeded in discrediting them through the above-mentioned rulings of the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] However, today we propose to approve a motion that relates to and complains about such abuses and abuses, and you reproach yourselves, in reciprocity with the Socialist Party, that of the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary or of its blockade; that of your mismanagement in the matter of the health crisis or of the lack of cooperation that the PSOE reproaches you in an extraordinary situation; that of the prison policies that the PSOE practices while being led by the Government by Sánchez and that you, says the Socialist Party - and rightly so -, which you also practiced in the governments that you led, etc. All these accusations and mutual reproaches are circumstantial and contingent because the substantive reality is very different, it is another. The substantive reality is that you agree on the issues of Spanish politics, and you do so despite the fact that it is a convergence that has cost you 5 800 000 votes since 2011 and 4 400 000 votes since 2008 to the Socialist Party. [[applause]] You have lost 50% of your electoral balance and the Socialist Party has lost 40%. However, they are recalcitrant, they do not react, they are slaves to that 2030 Agenda, which is an affront to all Spaniards, because the only thing they pursue is, because of ideological objectives, the depopulation of the nation. In addition, you have practiced during the government of Mariano Rajoy the same fiscal policy that Mr Sánchez has practiced since 2019: to lower growth, greater fiscal effort. It is a disappointment that it is not in the head, except of inepts, who are what you are as you have just recently remembered the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 22 January, which said that Mr Montoro's reform on model 720...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u289	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u290	... does not respond to compelling reasons of general interest and is also extremely repressive. Not to mention that of 2014 in the matter of imputation in income of surplus profits resulting from real estate transmissions, in which the reductions due to time and also the corrections due to the increase in the price of the money were abolished. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u291	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Sánchez, while quoting Plato, I do not think it is appropriate - and I hope you will agree with me - that it should be stated in the Journal of Sessions that the Presidency of the Government has received the qualifications it has received. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u292	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I will go directly to the reasons why we cannot support the motion put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group: for the arguments that were degenerate when the inquiry was made and that have also been quoted here today. I have heard the reasonings, but, of course, accusing someone of something also requires some legitimacy for having done or being doing exactly the opposite. I am not going to tell you that there are attitudes that I do not like, of this Government and of the previous ones, of these colors and of the former ones and that they have been repeated successively, but I am going to tell you why we do not agree. Of course, not with criticism of the alarm states. We have to get there, time is passing very quickly here and many things are happening, but we have to get there at the time when they were done, and there was no other legal instrument to deal with, nor was there any knowledge of what we were facing. To criticise now why the decisions concerning the states of alarm were taken seems to me timeless - as I believe was the ruling of the Constitutional - and, of course, unobjective with regard to what actually happened. It is criticized that the debate on the state of the nation has not taken place. Indeed, since the first time the President of the Government took office after the motion of censure, he has not done so, although a pandemic has passed. But if we look at what Mr Rajoy did from February 2015 until he left the presidency of the government in May 2018 - more than three years, almost three and a half years - then he did not hold any debate on the state of the nation. Therefore, they have had similar times, and, by the way, in this case there has been a pandemic. With regard to the fact that some reports are hidden and that no information is sent, I can tell you firsthand that I have also suffered from the color governments of your political party. With regard to the abuse of decree-laws, I absolutely agree with you, it is a real mockery of parliamentarianism. But, of course, considering the six years of the PP, even with an absolute majority, see, there were 73 decrees laws - what need was there? - and, in total, there were 102 decrees-laws in six years; nor was it that the People's Party failed to sign decrees-laws. Therefore, in reference to criticizing the 110, although it seems excessive to me, a barbarity, an absolute abuse by the government what it is doing in these four years, even though it is understood that there are some who are obliged, as in the case of La Palma or on subjects related to the COVID-19, is that in the comparison they do not come out very different, what do you want me to say to him? As for paralysing processing as draft laws and when certain initiatives are admitted, I believe so, I suffer with this Government, but I have suffered with you too in a multitude of laws. Many times you agree to the alimon, even when there is no one asking for an extension; you still do, because you do not want to decide on the subject, you paralyze them, and I can give you some example, like what happened this week in the Bureau. On the non-legislative proposals of opposition parties that are not met, they are absolutely right. But, look, the Basque Nationalist Party in 2017 proposed a reform of the regulation so that this would be controlled by the Chamber and that, if not complied with, explanations would be given by the government. What happened? Do you take it into consideration? All in favor; yes, you too. But what happened? That the legislature ended and you in two years did nothing to move that reform and that was possible. Why? Because they were in the government. And, in fact, the PSOE didn't move anything either. He says today's control has been slick, and I give him the reason. But I also remember when the People's Party asked questions to its own government, that we called questions PP but in the sense of questions ball because they were to gold the pill to the corresponding minister. And, of course, today was nothing upbuilding the control session, in which I agree. By the way, see that for once there was talk of Castile and Lion at the top, there was nothing else to talk about. How curious!, it is forgotten less when we have elections around the corner. And attacking the rule of law is also blocking constitutional bodies when you want to if you are not going to have a majority. Read the Constitutional Court and read the General Council of the Judiciary. I'm done, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u293	Yes, Mr. Esteban, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u294	And about the fact that no court decisions can be attacked, I believe that the opinion on court decisions is free, it cannot be that they are out of criticism. Another thing is that they must be within an acceptance framework. But, for criticisms, I could tell you a few of your criticisms. On judicial decisions, I give you a name: José Ricardo de Prada. Finally, the pandemic bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u295	Mr. Esteban, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u296	We believe that it is not necessary, that health legislation may have to be amended somewhat, but that a law as such is not necessary. That is why we are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u298	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Yes, we are here on an initiative by the opposition, and perhaps the first thing would be to explain to the Spanish Government what the opposition is. The opposition is the one that controls the government, and in the control session it tries to ask the government questions so that it, by virtue of its confidence in this House, will answer it; not to do what you have done this morning, which, indeed, as Mr Esteban has said, you also did when Rajoy was President of the Government. And, of course, it is regrettable that every time someone takes the floor here, you start to shout, with a truly embarrassing bad education. Then we will ask ourselves why citizens have a disaffection with their politicians, why we have so bad regard for politicians. But if we turn this into a circus, into a stable, where everyone screams when someone talks, we're gonna run into that situation. And it can be constructive opposition, as is the opposition of Citizens, with a sense of state, that has already promoted the possibility that the government of Pedro Sánchez would not rely on the populists and separatists through the 221, which you and you did not want, as in the support of the states of alarm or in last year's Budgets Act or in the labor reform that we vote for tomorrow. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] You prefer to reach Moncloa at any price, even if it is to govern what is left of Spain. You are not, therefore, to teach anyone about democratic legality, separation of powers or institutional respect, but, of course, we agree with you that this government is indeed very allergic to control. No one from the Government or practically no one from the Government in the face of events that are of national importance calls for attendance at his own request and we have to fight on the Board of Spokesmen and on the Bureau. With regard to this year's Budgets Act, when we were dealing with it here, there was not even a minister. Abusan of the royal decree-law, says the Report on Democracy in Spain: thirty-nine royal decree-laws - the record - in the year 2020. We are being blackmailed yesterday, including the addition of pensions with the use of the mandatory mask in public places. Turn all kinds of lies, such as, for example, the last one, which would be truly ridiculous if it were not for the effort that is costing Spanish households, that we pay the light at the same price as in 2018; well, if we discount inflation, right? That's what they're going to tell people who don't arrive at the end of the month and have to pay the price of light. And about the advisors, we have 785 positions whose merit is to be friends of the Socialist Party. Both you and you have become workplaces - let's hope temporary -, real ETTs, where you put your friends. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] They do not summon the media who are not friends of their own, who play a fundamental role in controlling the Government. And, finally, they use institutions in a very partisan way. This morning's control session, of course, has been a clear example of how this House is being used for purely propaganda purposes in the Castile-Leon campaign. But Mr. Sánchez has the dubious merit of having been the first president of the government sentenced to a fine by the Central Electoral Board for using Moncloa in an election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you claim that there must be counterweights, that there must be balances, that there must be control of the Government, but the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman are divided. [[Applauds]] They do not respect the merit competition of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and are distributed Spanish Radiotelevision. If it is you who are cooperating in the absence of these controls on the government! You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, say that we must have institutional respect, but, in fact, we find that you are flying through the air a government that worked on the Junta de Castilla y León by ceasing the best doctor in the world as a health counselor in the middle of the sixth wave and in the middle of Christmas. You defend the debate of the state of the nation and say that it has not been held for three years. No, it hasn't been held for seven years; the last one was celebrated by Mr Rajoy, and there are parties now in the House that we haven't been in that debate. Finally, you defend a law of pandemics, but, Mrs Moro, with all the appreciation and respect I have for you, you have already heard my opinion on this law of pandemics. Ambulatory freedom cannot be restricted without parliamentary control, according to the Constitutional Court, through the state of emergency, nor can the rest of the rights be limited simply by referring the citizen to the subsequent administrative appeal for a judge to give him or her the reason after the years. Gentlemen of the PSOE, please submit to the rules of control to the democratic state. Gentlemen of the PP, stop being hypocritical. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u300	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth analysing the key points on what the People's Party is bringing to debate today. It speaks of the deterioration of the democratic state, of the states of alarm, of the debate of the state of the nation, of the decree-law and of the ideological bills, and then adds that petition on the law of pandemics, and it is worth analyzing point by point this enumeration of topics. When talking about the deterioration of the democratic state, I don't think the PP remembers that famous whatsapp that said: Let's control the judiciary from behind. If the famous rule of law and democracy is based on the division of powers, it is not that the PP gives much example in relation to this episode of November 2018 on what is respect for the democratic state and the separation of powers. The same is true of the current blockade on the renewal of constitutional bodies, as has already been pointed out, since there is also a point of undemocratic the persistence of people who are in office and who know that they should have been renewed, and renewed with the consensus that sets this Constitution that they so much like, that they so much preserve, that they so much believe that it is immobile. I therefore believe that, with regard to the deterioration of the democratic state, some contribution to the cause has been made here by the PP. Regarding the state of alarm, it is that of pointing to when everyone knows the solution, because, on the first three extension authorizations, the PP voted in favour on 25 March, 9 April and 22 April, and even on the fourth decided to abstain. Therefore, that now the state of alarm was not the right configuration and that we have all read the ruling of the Constitutional Court and that perhaps the legal architecture should be another, okay; once the legal analysis is done thoroughly, it is very good, but, how contextualizes at that time, even the PP considered that it was necessary to extend that state of alarm up to three times, or even to four, and therefore that it was a legal solution to the actual situation that existed. Therefore, it is not worth pointing out that the state of alarm was a bad decision at the time. On the debate of the state of the nation and parliamentary controls, as was also pointed out earlier, the last debate on the state of the nation of President Mariano Rajoy was in February 2015, and therefore, from February 2015 until the motion of censure of 31 May and 1 June 2018, no debate on the state of the nation. On the decree-laws, it is also worth looking at the hemeroteca and the reality of the BOE. In April 2012, of the sixteen laws passed by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, fifteen were decree-laws; in the first hundred days of the Government of 2012, fifteen of the sixteen laws passed were royal decree-laws. In fact, one can observe how in 2017 there are even twenty-one royal decrees-law, and in 2018, which already share PP and PSOE, there are twenty-eight royal decrees-law. I sincerely believe that the abuse that exists in the use of this legal instrument, which was for those causes of extraordinary and urgent need, is more than a palm, but it cannot, given the previous reality, be used to put it in the face of the Socialist Party government. I do not want anyone at this point to think that I come here to save the dishes of the Socialist Party. I very much agree that today's monitoring session has not been satisfactory, that a debate on the state is necessary. You know that we believe that we have our own nation and that this is a plurinational state. Sometimes, when they say this about the debate of the State of the nation, they do not seem to respect the Constitution and the configuration of the plurinational State. That the democratic State could go much further, of course, but trying to appeal to the Government to make ideological laws is also not the great argument to dismantle that the Government is doing it wrong. Were not the law called gag, the law on citizen security, the law on permanent reviewable imprisonment or the amendment made to the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court in 2015 to give the Constitution some functions that it had never had since 1978 to 2015, and, instead, the PP Government considered that it was necessary to change them, according to its own interest and benefit? Therefore, it is wrong for me, but we will vote against the initiative, of course, because it is not that we want to give the Government the reason that they are doing well, because they have a lot to improve on, but, no doubt, in addition to rights, here you have to bring the initiatives, to my understanding and with all respect, with a clear awareness of what you have done in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u301	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u302	President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wanted to send a message of support to a Catalan Member, Pau Juvillà, who has also suffered injustice, who has taken his seat, and today we know that he is seriously ill. From here we send him our love and hope he recovers soon. [[Applauds]] And speaking precisely of illness, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that someone stays home for having the COVID, as happened to Minister Garzón today, is not cowardly, it is to be responsible, just the opposite that you did at that famous rally. That became a totally irresponsible viral rally. Mr. Garzón did what he had to do today. Speaking of this motion, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I was reminded of the work done quickly and of the students who have not studied, who are talking about everything and nothing and are plagued with errors, lies and nonsense, and I will point out to you some. First of all, we are told that to remind the victims of Francoism in the law of democratic memory is to open the wound, which divides it; you, who go to Mass to remind the dictator, as did Mr Casado; you who modify, who erase the names of democrats from the streets and put those of franchisors. Mrs. Ayuso recently removed from the street, erased the name of Barco Sinaia, who was the one who took refugees to Mexico, and placed the Baleares Cruise, which was the one who precisely bombed those who fled the dictatorship. You are not even equidistant between dictatorship and democracy. They take sides, and that is one of the great differences between the right in Spain and the rest in Europe. You don't come from an anti-fascist culture, and that's why we have half the country left and that's why you want to agree with your extreme right split. And, if we don't stop it, in Castile and León you will make that candidate vice president who despises women, homosexuals, black citizens with their tweets, typical of a Neanderthal, and who wants to go back to the time of the Cid. Today we heard Mr Sánchez de VOX say that the President of the Government was a despot, a tyrant. It is no wonder that what happened in Lorca happened later, because, if since VOX when they say that they were better the government of dictatorship than those of democracy speak of tyranny, it is normal for people to think that valet. Then happens what has happened in Lorca, where a mob of violent people tries to burn down a building. From here, too, our solidarity with the workers, the mayor and the councillors of Lorca. Secondly, you - and you have done so today, Mrs Moro - speak of a lack of transparency; you, who have opposed the creation of a transparency office such as the one we have in Barcelona; you, who are the most corrupt party in Europe, with more than three hundred accused or convicted; you, who have been described as a criminal organization by the courts and the police, who have used the institutions, the cloacas of the state to finance themselves illegally, rigging relationships, avoiding the formation of democratic governments or covering up their cases of corruption; you, who are opposed to ending the corruption of the Catholic Church, who want to send to prison those who shout 'free and free abortion' in an church or who are offended when feminists sing or talk about boobs. So scared of boobs? Do you know what offends us? That you pass a law so that the Church can steal buildings and buildings, you may want to impose your religious beliefs on us, such as when you voted against divorce, abortion and euthanasia, or now against a commission of inquiry into sexual abuse of minors in the Church. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is not going to have faith in God, whether it is Catholic or not, this is going to be about children's rights, democracy, transparency. Put yourself on the side of the pope's victims, and not of those who want to cover up these abominable facts. They also speak to us in their authoritarian motion of government, when you only respect the rules of the democratic game when it suits you, if you serve them to access or retain power; if not, you break them, and that is why you are entangled in the apparatuses of the State, as you are doing with the General Council of the Judiciary. Similarly, we are told about judicial independence, today that 1156 days ago judges have been abducting the Government. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are the real threat to the judicial independence and democracy of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Narváez Bandera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u304	Thank you, President. The PP presents this afternoon a purely populist motion, empty of content, with a sober and improper language of the decorum that this House deserves, full of unfounded accusations and falsehoods; it is not even necessary to reach the Petitum to reject it. And this motion presents the People's Party without even blushing; the party of corruption, the party of the Gürtel, of M. Rajoy; the party that does not want to renew the organs of the General Council of the Judiciary, the party we will now control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court from behind, the party of cuts in rights and freedoms to citizens when they rule. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do you not realize that you yourselves are discredited by these things? Can't you see that they're falling through the ravine of the far right? [[Applauds]] I'm showing it to you because it's democracy that we fight so much for - forty years of struggle, and some more than others, and that's why it hurts us - the one that loses with that polarization that you do. And I will make it clear to you: the Socialist Group is proud of our Government and proud of our country, proud because this Government has been able to face the greatest pandemic of the last century, and has done so with courage and sensitivity to the problems of the citizens, deploying the greatest social shield in history. The royal decrees passed by the government that you criticize have saved lives. They saved thousands of Spaniards from enlarging the lists of unemployment thanks to the ERTE, approved with their vote against; they saved thousands of self-employed people from having to close their businesses thanks to the benefits for cessation of activity, they saved hundreds of families from having to go to the queues of hunger thanks to the approval of the minimum living income. The Spanish and the Spanish have seen how you can get out of a crisis by strengthening the welfare state, and not cutting it, as you did in 2008. It can be legislated for people, and not make the weight of cuts fall on them. That is why we are not the same, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, fortunately. It is not the same thing to freeze pensions, as we have seen done by the People's Party Government, that to raise them in an average of 70 euros, as this Government does It is not the same to cut in dependence, which is what they do where they govern, as in Andalusia, that strengthen the care system and also approve new rights, such as minimum living income. [[Applauds]] It is not the same thing to sell vulture-backed housing as to pass a housing law and help young people with a rental bonus. It is not the same to freeze the interprofessional minimum wage as to raise it to a thousand euros and continue to create employment; twenty million occupied, Your Honor, the highest level of employment since 2008. It is not the same to govern to cut workers' rights, which was the result of their labour reform of 2013, that to approve a labour reform resulting from the social dialogue with trade unions and employers to return those rights to workers. Go and tell the Cadiz Bay workers now that they do not want to support this labor reform and that they no longer believe in ultraactivity. It is not the same thing to create precarious jobs as to bet on stable employment. It's not the same, ladies and gentlemen, we're not the same. That is how the Socialist Party understands that we have to work for Spain, that is how a country is transformed, and in Europe they know it and they have already said it as active and passive. The European Commission endorses the transparency and accountability of the Spanish Government and has given the approval to the allocation of European funds. Stop being ridiculous for Europe. Don't send Mr. Moreno Bonilla to fuck with you anymore. If he is not able to manage the 21 billion that Andalusia has received from European funds, the community that has received the most money in funds, let him go, let a progressive government take care of Andalusia moving towards the path of growth and employment. Finished. This Government meets its stated objectives, meets the road map of the policy plan and, most importantly, meets the people. This is the policy that citizens expect, the useful policy, the high policy, that affects people and that you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, are so far from practicing; you do not practice it when you rule or when you are in opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-02-CD220202.u305	Thank you very much, Mrs Narváez. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was five o'clock in the afternoon.
