ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the point on committee opinions on legislative initiatives, in particular on the draft law on the creation and growth of enterprises. To defend the amendments - and, where appropriate, the particular vote - made to this legislative initiative by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u2	Thank you, President. Egun on, Vice President. I am speaking on behalf of the Basque Group to establish a position on the draft law, as well as to defend the amendments to the draft law on the creation and growth of businesses that we keep alive. It is a law whose aim is, of course, to improve the business climate through the promotion of business growth, and to this end a series of measures are taken to speed up the creation of businesses, such as: improving the regulation and removal of obstacles to the development of economic activities, reducing commercial slowness and improving access to finance. All this deployment of measures is done through the amendment of twelve laws. [[Rumors]] With regard to measures to speed up business start-ups, reduce commercial lateness and improve access to finance... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u3	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary has begun.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u4	We can say that the amendments incorporated by both our group and the other groups have improved the text proposed by the Government, although I also have to say that the text could perhaps have been more ambitious in some of these respects, because it does have a great impact on the part of creation and not so much on the part of the growth phase, which is vital for companies to stay on track. With regard to lateness, some reforms are included, but little focus is on public lateness. In the area of business finance, the text has been improved through the amendments of the various groups that we have supported and which will, of course, facilitate and speed up financing measures. My group has also focused an important part of the amendments on the part of the law on the guarantee of market unity, which, according to the Government, included measures which it describes as aimed at improving the regulation and removal of obstacles to economic activities; a law with which we have never agreed and which, in fact, we resort to the Constitutional Court, giving us some reason. In this regard, we must recognize that the draft law adapts the text of the LGUM to Judgment 79/2017 of 22 June, eliminating, on the one hand, the references contained in the text to the principle of effectiveness of the actions of the competent authorities throughout the national territory-Articles 9 and 17-, content declared null and void by unconstitutional Article 6, and, on the other hand, removing the automaticity of the precautionary suspension requested by the CNMC in the course of the special administrative litigation procedure for the guarantee of market unity. We also welcome the explicit need for tax matters to be excluded from the scope of the application of this law - a matter which had caused some controversy with certain actions of the tax authorities - and this amendment is finally clarified. However, we have not just understood that certain aspects are regulated that were not necessary because they did not pose any problems and because neither has Europe required the amendment of this law. A law, the LGUM, with which the Socialist Party disagreed and which, when Esquerra requested its repeal through a PNL, voted in favour on the grounds that it was a law that had not resolved the problems of market unity in Spain and that did not respond to the territorial model of autonomy. However, you in this draft law disqualify yourselves because the draft law proposes, among other things, to extend the control measures to the various administrations by exceeding the mechanisms already provided for in the original text of the LGUM and, of course, exceeding for us the supposed inter-administrative cooperation in this matter. It thus establishes a system which, rather than cooperation, should be regarded as both a priori control and control of the actions deployed by the various public administrations, entrusting such a function to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, through the Secretariat for the Market Unit, and to the sectoral conference for the regulatory improvement of the business climate, recognizing to them the ability to enable the above-mentioned procedures for the protection of operators, which, of course, become a kind of centralized political-administrative control, alien to the supposed cooperative spirit proclaimed in the preamble to the law. For my group, the proper functioning of the relationship between the competent administrations must be ensured by means of means of collaboration; not by legal imposition or by application of schemes, at best state, hierarchical and control between the different administrations, between different institutional levels, but by making policies more effective and efficient through collaboration. In this regard, we have proposed amendments to minimize that impact. Not all have been resolved satisfactorily; however, I have to say that we have been negotiating until the last moment, and in this regard I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his efforts to bring forward positions. Finally, and in this regard, we have reached a satisfactory agreement in three amendments for which I am asking for your support today - I do not know what number the transactions are, but they are on Article 10, Article 11 and Article 28 - because they minimize some of the issues raised by my group with regard to the LGUM. That is why today, despite the fact that we have left things in the dark, although it is not the law that we would have drawn up and approved, especially in this part concerning the Law on Guarantee of the Market Unit, but we understand that it contains positive aspects to encourage the creation of enterprises and because we have managed, as I said, to minimize that impact on some of its proposals regarding the LGUM, we will abstain in the whole of the law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u6	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In politics we all always have SMEs in mind, I could constantly say. At the time we discuss an initiative that mentions companies, there is always some group - we too -, when not all of us, that will often amend to add some kind of vest: especially SMEs or something similar. The problem is that the vast majority of times this is the only thing that is offered to SMEs, Good words. Everyone, everyone, we say support for SMEs. Who's not going to support the SMEs? More than 90% of the Spanish business fabric is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, so no one in their right mind would say otherwise, but not all SME support is equal. From Citizens we understand support for small and medium-sized enterprises not as support for immobilism, but as support for its growth. We have to be honest with the citizens, we have to tell them the truth, and the truth is that SMEs, on average, are less productive than larger companies. This is due, among other reasons, to the fact that they do not have sufficient resources to export and innovate; on the contrary, large companies have higher economic performance, are more productive, as they pay higher wages, earn more profits and invest in the continuing training of their workers, are more competitive internationally and have a greater capacity to resist market changes and economic crises. Of course no company is obliged to grow if it does not want to, and as liberals we will defend that each company chooses its project, but also as liberals we believe that we must do everything in our power as a legislative power to remove the regulatory or market obstacles that today, ladies and gentlemen, exist and hinder the growth of companies that do want to grow and create more jobs. We have said this in public and we have repeated it in private: Citizens fully share both the spirit and the purpose of this law. That is why we regret that a bill that could have turned the Spanish business landscape in the end remains at another missed opportunity. This law suffers from a chronic problem in Spain, and it is a rule that is more intended to facilitate the work of the Administration than that in which the Administration facilitates the lives of citizens and businesses. Let's look at some examples. Example one: this law supports the regulatory improvement and business climate - it says in its explanatory statement - and establishes a procedure for the formation of companies, a procedure - it will forgive me that I would - that is born out of date, since before passing the law we know that it will be modified in the coming months by another bill. Wouldn't it be easier, ladies and gentlemen, to start this law with that new procedure and not have to wait a few months for it to change? It would be simpler and much better for businesses as well, but here the priority is to maintain the share quotas between one ministry and another. Example two: the reform of the Market Unit Guarantee Act, which this Act also refers to. It is not that it is not an ambitious reform in this respect, but it is clear that the main target of it is the Administration itself, but the Administration speaking to itself. The government is excited because they change advice for a sectoral conference and everything is more orderly within the house. Ladies and gentlemen, the rule is not to change the name of the bodies; the rule is to give effective tools to businesses and citizens so that they can exercise their rights without relying on the goodwill of the administration, because if something depends on the administrations in charge and that this administration is good, it is no longer a right of citizens and businesses, it is a favor that the administration does us. Third and last example: the elimination of thresholds, steps or regulatory leaps that make it difficult for companies to grow. In our amendments we asked for these thresholds to be changed, and we were told from the Government that they would not accept it because this really did not affect the growth of companies and, moreover, they told us that no one had asked for it in the public hearing procedure. [[Rumors]] But, of course, as a liar is caught before, you go to the summary of the contributions made, to the analysis of the contributions made by the companies in the consultation process and read... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u7	Mrs. Muñoz, wait a minute, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you again to remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u8	Thank you, President. He said that, as a liar is caught before, one goes to the contributions made by companies in the public consultation process and reads - I open quotes -: The vast majority of contributions are shown in favour of increasing the regulatory thresholds. But not content with that, the Government has manifestly unconstitutionally vetoed those Citizens' amendments that talked about raising regulatory thresholds; the Government says that because they involve an increase in spending or a decrease in income, but, listen, that we are only changing the step to make one statement or another, we are not depriving the Treasury of collecting more. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill that is designed to ensure that companies are at the service of the administrations and not the administrations at the service of the companies, and the best thing you can say about the project is quecupple, it is a check on one of the milestones of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, but, moreover, it is another missed opportunity, and I, our group, the liberals, feel sorry for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u10	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Vice-President, this is an important law, and I sincerely believe that in the parliamentary procedure we have substantially improved it. That is why, given their importance and these improvements, we are going to vote in favour. I would like to thank all my fellow Commissioners, especially, if I may, Pedro Casares and Txema Guijarro, who are part of the groups supporting the Government; I would also like to extend the thanks to Monica Moreno, the lawyer, for the work she has done and, if I may, apart from the leadership of the Vice-President, Gonzalo García, the Secretary of State, and also to some tax plumber, who sometimes makes things happen. [[Applauds]] In any case, we have introduced 30 amendments, which are an important improvement for a group of four Members. Of these thirty amendments, twelve have been incorporated into their literality and eighteen have been negotiated. I will not have time to explain them all, but of these thirty that we have incorporated, nine refer to the fight against lateness. I would like to greet and thank the President of the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity, Antoni Cañete, and also his manager, Pilar, who will follow this plenary from here. This is a struggle that does not end, that will be long and, in any case, although we have not managed to incorporate the sanctioning regime or the modification of the LORCOMIN, you know that I am a constant and persevering person and we will continue to try it throughout the legislature. In these nine amendments relating to late payment, we have amended five laws: the General Subsidies Act; the Electronic Bill Act; the Unfair Competition Act, incorporating late payment as a practice of illegal competition; we have amended the Public Sector Contracts Act - among others, section 216.4 and, above all, section 217.2 by which contractors must provide a certificate to the current payment with subcontractors whenever they certify works; we have also improved the late payment observatory; we have incorporated representatives of the anti- late payment entities into the SME State Council and made some substantial contributions in other areas. There will be future regulation of socially committed companies, such as B Corp. In any case, congratulations, Madam Vice President. Today he's going to hear that they've been cut short, I'm sure everything is better in life, but this is a good law that will bear good fruit. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u12	Good morning, President. Thank you. This law was baptized as a law of creation and growth, but seeing how things have gone, it could be called: a law of creation and growth, and if you succeed, to see how you survive. This law is a good example of how the Government faces economic challenges at a snail's pace and without courage. In addition, the most progressive Government in history has in the coming year eleven laws passed directly without going through the Courts. The parliamentary technique of lentils: if you want to eat them and, if not, leave them. A government is expected to be more rigorous and serious when it comes to legislation, from the SME sector they have raised the banner of entrepreneurial activism, that brave and exemplary. And in these courts it has not been worthy of that activism, which creates wealth and jobs. And when a government plays to the minimum, no country advances. Do not tell us on the side of the conformists. According to the Government, this law set great goals, reducing late payment was one of them, but how is it going to be credible that this Government has rejected - and we have been confirmed in the negotiations - the sanctioning regime for late payment, after having voted in favour of its processing? They don't dare, they don't dare anything. In business terms, we bet on courage, which is one of the values of the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur, the tireless worker. And you have bet, on the other hand, on fear and conformism. The Balance: the law does not effectively - not as it should - promote the creation of businesses and the use of the electronic invoice. Moving forward in terms of digitization was imperative - especially for SMEs - to facilitate the traceability of payments as well and only in the world of the Lazarillo de Tormes it is possible to survive and even progress by failing to comply with what should be sacred in a commercial transaction: the payment deadline. We understand that a great opportunity has been missed to reduce commercial lateness and, once again, the reverential fear of large companies has made a legislative initiative smaller. We will not have effective and efficient instruments to enforce the law against late payment. Linguistic subtleties through, it will continue to be possible to escape from law enforcement; but, once again, the great headlines have covered the small letter. We do not want to amend the Minority Trade Organization Act because it would alter the status quo of the larger ones. They will be blushed to hear their own interventions criticizing the centralizing measures of Rajoy's PP. The law they propose, far from fulfilling the commitments they have made, deepens what they were denouncing at the time. Do you remember what you were saying before the PP's market unity law? We remind you, October 25, 2016, right here: Law 20/2013, of December 9, Guaranteeing Market Unity, is the result of the nationalist, centralist and homogenizing vision of the State maintained by the Government of the People's Party. The only objective of this law - you said - is to laminate the powers of the autonomous communities by subtracting from them any area of decision subordinated to the dictates of the Government of the State. The aim is, ultimately, to reduce the autonomous communities to mere delegations of the General Administration of the State dedicated to the implementation of the policies developed by the Spanish Government. That's what you said. They have forgotten who they were, they have betrayed themselves and far from the reasons - their reasons - which motivated the repeal of the law of market unity to deepen decentralization, the damage to autonomous competences and an economic model of uniform intervention - which you call harmonising - in favour of the State, which we have so many times since Junts have denounced or confronted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u14	Well, it looks like this is going to prosper. I start at the end, thanks. Celso Delgado, president, a model of serenity and courtesy. Letrada Monica Moreno, her legendary patience and sympathy are only surpassed by her competition, and her team. The services of the House are so discreet and efficient that we often forget that they are always there. The rapporteurs, on the part of the Government, led by Pablo and Txema and more, who have often pushed the rest beyond their possibilities, sometimes with the complicity of a secretary of state and the help of the plumber, quoted by Mr Bel. I also thank the fellow speakers, who have consistently and tenaciously defended their own, but without the blood reaching the river and always getting some things to change. And I can't come down from this rostrum without thanking my people infinitely, this time Marta Moreno, without which my legislative performances would wipe out the ridiculous, I guess many of you do the same, we would hardly be without our teams. Give it up if you agree. [[Applauds]] When the creation and growth law began, we set ourselves a very simple goal: to adopt a law that would respond in a real way to the needs of SMEs and that would be a law that would put an end to the main handicaps that they suffer. In the Republican Left of Catalonia we carry in the DNA the pyme spirit, in fact one of those of the pyme foot speaks to them. Because we know that the key to economic growth and, consequently, social welfare is largely in the health of the productive fabric. And we know that this productive fabric is made up of 99% by small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers and that it accounts for 70% of the occupation. And we also know that these small businesses are competing in an inequality of conditions with large companies in a land full of difficulties aggravated by the COVID pandemic, by the current price crisis - 10.2% of inflation we knew yesterday -, conditions that have only accentuated these inequalities. We also know that the Spanish State and its repeated governments have systematically mistreated SMEs, ignoring from their high towers in Castellana that SMEs are the light cavalry of the economy, are the marginalized of public procurement, designed to favor large companies. They are the main ones affected by the scourge of corporate lateness, which triggers the financial asphyxiation of thousands of SMEs, and they are the main forgotten policies of the Official State Gazette; policies of the BOE mainly designed to favor those who have the most power and influence. Faced with the opportunity offered by this law, Esquerra has put forward in that spirit thirty-one amendments to improve all those aspects of the law that we considered to be very short, and we have to say that we have not turned the sock around, but almost. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the work of organizations such as Pimec and the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity, which for years and years has worked to provide data and arguments. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] The road to fighting corporate lateness has not been easy and is not being easy. Let us remember the proposed law that implements a sanctioning regime paralyzed for months and months by the Table blessed by PSOE, by Unity We can and - pass - by Citizens and, obviously, with the approval of the People's Party. We regret the enormous opportunity lost for years when the reform of the law of lateness was blocked in Congress to apply a sanctioning regime to the late companies, and we reproach those who have prevented it by serving the oligopolies, the extractive, oligopolistic, latifundista economy, yes, BOE and Bernabéu stage. We remind them and reproach them for the cost of economic, social, personal opportunity of God knows how many companies that have gone bankrupt as they are asphyxiated financially by this scourge of lateness. [[Applauds]] How many dreams, Vice President, how many dreams, how many efforts, how many projects have not prospered because they did not charge for their work, their products or services when they corresponded. To forget here today to dedicate a sentence to them as a funeral prayer would be not to do them justice. For them we have worked as well as we have known and so that circumstances are not repeated we have worked and we will continue to work. However, today we can talk about certain improvements in the text that will make Esquerra give it support, with the awareness that we have much to improve and warning that we will not cease in our efforts; improvements in the representativeness of SMEs in the concertation bodies, mainly the implementation of a regime sanctioning lateness, the modification of the LORCOMIN. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u15	Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u16	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Liberal thinking has always been prone to exalting the virtues of the market as a mechanism for allocating resources. So much so that some have come to elevate to the category of pagan god and secular what does not cease to be a tool of economic relationship between people and institutions, with their virtues and defects. That is why from the left it has always been stressed that only through efficient regulation of these mechanisms by the States can these advantages be taken advantage of. In this sense, I do not want to fail to mention the work of a Cambridge economist - brilliant student of John Maynard Keynes and teacher of teachers - Joan Robinson, in which he warned of the lack of self-regulatory capacities, as well as of the tendencies towards cartelization and oligopolization, increasingly accused in modern capitalism. In Spain this has had a very concrete translation. Here there has never, or hardly ever been, 'Manchesterian' capitalism; the major strategic sectors, the economic engines of the country have always been in the hands of a few, a few privileged and linked in a customer-like way to the State, especially from the late-offranchism, which have imposed on the rest of the sectors and economic actors their own rules. In many ways it is regrettable to see how Spain has never ceased to be the courtship of some gentlemen of composite surnames, who have sustained and multiplied fortunes by parasitizing the State and, therefore, at the expense of the development and well-being of their compatriots. As has been pointed out in recent months, can we speak rigorously in Spain about an electricity market, a banking market, a telecommunications market? Is it not a sad euphemism to classify so that they do not cease to be oligopolic capitalsaccumulated, not by the continuous effort of an entrepreneur made to himself, but by the State, that is, by the combined effort of all, who did not hesitate, however, to privatize these capitals and hand them over to a few families and to foreign capital? It is very revealing that for almost the first two decades of democracy the Spanish employer was presided over by a high Franco official who in his life had opened a blind. Contrary to what some preach, here never commanded the entrepreneurship understood in liberal terms, but rather the IBEX, that is, the owners of the courtship. The question of lateness in Spain is the playing field, the perfect field of maneuvers to understand these imbalances that tear our economy apart. As you know, our country has historically presented high levels of lateness compared to the rest of Europe, which is undoubtedly an obstacle to the normal functioning of economic activity. But the pattern of the late has a peculiarity, let's say, minister, very Spanish: while the large companies of the IBEX charge an average of sixty-eight days - that is, close to the sixty that marks the legislation of the year 2004 - they pay to their suppliers, that is to say to the SMEs of our country, one hundred ninety-three days, according to data of the CNMV; that is, three times more, and against what the law establishes, by the way. Of course, to see who's the handsome one who risks reporting a big company, right? Look at you, not even 1 %, 61% of the long-term enterprises are large enterprises. According to the latest survey... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u18	Thank you, President. It stated that, according to the latest survey of the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity, 92 % of suppliers did not demand legal compensation for recovery costs in case of delay or default, 83 % never or almost never demanded from their customers the interest of delay, and 66 % were required to pay longer than allowed by law. This is not only an unequivocal symptom of this imbalance, but is in many cases an insurmountable loser for the development and economic viability of many self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises. I wonder, as Mr Capdevila was asking, how many SMEs managed with care, professionalism and depth have gone to the train station in recent years for having had to de facto finance, in this spurious way, the big Spanish capitals. And worst of all, during the pandemic, the figures of lateness have not improved, although large companies have increased their cash and liquid assets in this period by more than 20%, i.e. they have the money but do not release it, and thus drain our economy at a time when a powerful irrigation system is required. Well, from my parliamentary group we believe that the time has come to legislate, to regulate, and in this sense we are convinced that the problem of late payment in Spain will only be solved definitively with the implementation of a sanctioning regime that enforces what is already law since 2004, as we have done with the transport sector not long ago. In any case, we could not fail to take advantage of the Government's opportunity to deal with this issue through this law, because if we wanted to provide our SMEs with muscle and economies of scale, as the project creates and grows, the question of lateness could not be left out. I honestly believe that the Ministry of Economy has been able to understand this importance and, even more importantly, has been able to listen and interact with those who do represent the self-employed and small entrepreneurs of our country. In this regard, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr Gonzalo García Andrés and his team, as well as Pedro Casares and the PSOE colleagues for facilitating this understanding. As a result, public administrations'recruitment tools, as well as grant programmes, will now serve as powerful incentives for law enforcement and time-bound compliance. Even different measures are envisaged depending on the size of the enterprise, so it is more demanding with large enterprises. For us this distinction is fundamental, because the problem, as has already been explained, is explained from this differentiation. The effects of the so-called confirmation on payment periods are also taken into account, so that the debts will be considered settled only with the actual payment of the debts and not through dubious financial instruments that end up transferring the charge to the creditor. There is also significant progress in monitoring, the establishment of the observatory against lateness is a faithful witness, as well as in the recognition of all actors in civil society. Finally, I cannot fail to mention and thank the effort and involvement of Pimec and its president, Antoni Cañete, as well as the Multisectoral Platform itself in the elaboration of this law. Honestly, I think the text is more faithful to its initial objectives, it responds better to the interests of Spanish SMEs thanks to this contribution. I am also grateful, of course, for the work of Mr Ferran Bel, who has put his extensive knowledge of the subject at the service of a common interest to facilitate a broad agreement; and of course, Mr Capdevila, Mr Esquerra and the other colleagues in the paper, who have contributed to a frank discussion and exchange of ideas and proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, Madam Vice-President. We will support this bill and the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation coming to this House, although there are logically many things that we will amend and some that we will add. First of all, I would like to thank the work and the good atmosphere of the Commission for all the groups and, logically, its chairman, Mr Delgado, and the lawyer Mrs Mónica Moreno; and in particular, I would like to highlight the work of my colleague, Miguel Ángel Castellón, who has tried to improve this bill with great generosity and effort. [[Applauds]] This draft law on the creation and growth of enterprises is a little like its way of governing, lords of the Socialist Party, a rumbling name, grandiose objectives, a way of legislating adapted to their interests, using the Courts for their purposes and not to improve the legislation, a text that does not achieve its objectives and that worsens by having to admit amendments from some of their partners, that is, because of their weakness. This, which with minor things and in times of good times is a problem, on an important issue such as this law or in times of crisis such as the current one is very serious. As our spokesman, Mr Castellón, and others put it, the hasty procedure in the process creates the possibility of making mistakes, and that will be paid for by businesses and citizens. More thought has been given to fulfilling the milestone that came in the Next Generation, basically in order to be able to present it to Europe and demand more European funds, than in the opportunity that opens up to make a more effective regulation in the face of the problem that we present of creation and growth of our companies. This project is very important to our economic system and should have really been used to reduce bureaucracy and obstacles and to further improve the conditions for access to finance, but it has not been achieved. As I said at first, little substance and a lot of marketing. This law is not our law and we will present another that facilitates the conditions of growth of companies, because this is the main deficit of the project and, curiously, the main need of our productive system. The small size of our companies makes them less productive, with less investment, digitisation or internationalisation capacity, they have worse conditions for employees and less capacity to cope with crises, which, as we see, come one after another. There are sufficient studies on the benefits of business growth in more and better jobs, in more investment and more business, so we do not understand how the most important thing has not been properly legislated, and they have focused only on improving financing capacity. Everyone who knows the business world knows that the accumulation of barriers at certain levels clearly disincentives the growth of our SMEs, and that has not been addressed by the Government. We also miss a real reduction in administrative procedures and obstacles, a real loser for companies in our country. That is why we wonder where measures have remained such as generalizing or beginning to take a step forward in the positive silences of the Administration, which are claimed by many companies in certain sectors, or how, for example, to make more extensive use of the responsible declarations. These are liberalizing measures that undoubtedly transform the business fabric and the regulatory framework in which our companies compete. On the contrary, because of the negotiations between the Government and its partners, the measures that have been adopted through amendments are introducing even more bureaucracy into the business relations with the Administration. Nor do we intend to legislate on corporate lateness, it has nothing to do with the purpose of this law, and we have a specific bill that groups supporting the Government have been paralysing for the past year and a half. We believe that lateness is a sufficiently important debate that affects too many SMEs and too many self-reliant people to have provoked a calm, calm debate in which, as I said earlier, it does not steal from the House, from groups and of course from civil society its participation in a serious and serene negotiation on how to tackle lateness, and not eradicate it in 48 hours, as has been intended. Nine amendments of the People's Group have been incorporated and others have been negotiated. I thank the spokesman for the Socialist Group, Mr Casares, and the entire government for doing so. But they have not accepted any of the measures we proposed to improve the financing of SMEs through the creation of sustainable investment figures and their tax treatment. This would help finance small and medium-sized enterprises, and hence this law, to improve access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises so that they become larger and larger. Nor have they accepted the amendment to resolve that the draft law does not explicitly reflect the tax regime applicable to FILPEs, the automatic authorisation of companies managing collective investment institutions or the atomisation of the XBRL format, this language that has been adopted by the European Union as a reference language in the creation of financial reports, or more improvements in the market unit on the entry into force of certain parts of the law that were absolutely necessary. We believe that many companies can be created thanks to this bill, but we do not know how many Spanish companies will have the capacity to grow thanks to it. This bill, in the opinion of the People's Parliamentary Group, is not a bill that remains, remains, but does not add up to what it should, and Spain is not to let go of opportunities, let alone those that have to do with the strengthening of our business fabric in an increasingly competitive area, both in Europe and the rest of the world, and in an increasingly globalized economy. With increasingly robust and strong companies it would be much easier. I told you at first, this way of legislating is like your way of governing, and we are seeing it with the management of this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, Madam Vice-President, we are in a very serious crisis and I do not know if you know what needs to be done in the face of a crisis, but I believe that even if I did, they would not be able to apply it either, because they have several problems. The first of them is their ideology, they are tied to their demagogy and their ideology, and it does not allow them to apply some of the appropriate solutions. The second, the lack of agreement of his Government, two groups that each go a different way and that, instead of agreements, end up taking decisions by imposition or by pressure. And the third, its dependence on political groups such as Esquerra Republicana or EH Bildu, parties with interests contrary to Spain and which, logically, press for action against the country. With these positions, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we cannot govern and we cannot take appropriate measures in times of peace and growth, let alone in times of war and crisis such as the present. If you really thought about the Spanish, I think you would leave the government now, and I hope you will soon do so for the good of all. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Paniagua. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u22	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today the climate is being very calm, everything is going well, until Mr. Capdevilla called me Pablo, although I have to say that we have improved because earlier he called me Married. So, Mr. Capdevilla, we're doing better. [[Laughter and applause]] Jokes aside, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to live times of uncertainty, times that are not being easy, with the consequences of a pandemic and now of a war that has changed our lives and our economy. That is why, at such difficult times as these, it is important that we provide certainties and solutions from politics, and in that the Spanish Government is committed, and this is a good week to prove it. On Saturday, the Council of Ministers approved a package of measures to address the consequences of the war and the rise in prices. These are measures that are already in the BOE, such as the EUR 200 support for vulnerable families, the aid and increase of non-contributory pensions of EUR 60 per month or the decrease of VAT from 10 % to 5 % in the receipt of light to all Spaniards. On Monday the European Commission approved the payment to Spain of the second disbursement of European funds worth EUR 12 billion. Spain has been the first country to apply and the first to charge for this second fund. On Tuesday and Wednesday we saw how the government has the support of international leaders and how even US President Joe Biden told President Sánchez that we were doing well and with leadership. Today Thursday, this Congress of Deputies will pass two important laws to generate a future of opportunities and progress for our country, as the competition law and the law creates and grows, which we are now debating. And soon, on Monday, we will know the extraordinary data of the labor market for this month of June, which we beat all the historical records of membership in Social Security. [[Applauds]] And I don't go on with the days of the week, because I think they're getting too long, ladies and gentlemen. Today we lay the foundations for developing a better economic and productive model for our country, but above all for those who each day make country with their companies, with their factories, with their industries, with their SMEs, with their businesses, and generate economic activity, wealth and employment. The law creates and grows is the main axis to boost the creation of businesses and facilitate their growth or, in other words, to make it easier to launch an idea, a project, a company, helping those in our country who decide to undertake. It is a pioneering, advanced standard with a transformative spirit that responds to the challenges of companies and SMEs, allowing them also to increase their size and competitiveness. This Act, together with the other two business climate improvement projects, reinforces supply in an environment such as the current one, where restrictions on growth are concentrated on this side of the market. Therefore, those who vote in favour today are launching a message of hope and future for millions of Spaniards and businesses. We are putting SMEs at the centre of economic policy. We are creating wealth with facts and not words. We are saying yes to reduce and speed up the procedures and conditions for setting up companies. We are saying yes to the opportunity for a Spaniard to form a limited liability company with one euro instead of the current 3000 euros. We are saying yes to establish a single window that guarantees a reduction in time and costs to set up a fully telematic company. We are saying that yes to a determined struggle against the lateness that so much damages SMEs and the self-employed. We are saying yes to the obligation to issue electronic invoices in all business transactions between companies and self-employed. We are saying yes that companies that do not meet legal deadlines are excluded from public subsidies. We are saying yes to financial support measures; driving alternative financing, such as crowdfunding mechanisms, collective investment or venture capital. In Definitively, ladies and gentlemen, we are saying yes to something as important as being able to set up a company tomorrow in an easier, faster and less costly way; yes to thousands of entrepreneurs, young people, who want to start a project with illusion and currently find themselves with a lot of obstacles; yes to thousands of small entrepreneurs and self-employed people who now see with uncertainty when they are going to pay a bill or not; yes to Spaniards and Spaniards who want to give the best of themselves to society as a whole so that they feel that the Administration is an ally on a path that is not always going to be easy. This country, ladies and gentlemen, needs many yeses, it needs many shared efforts, a lot of joint work. We're not to be saying whenever we don't or to look somewhere else. I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking all the parliamentary groups in this House who are going to support this bill for their responsibility and all the work we have done during these weeks; all the rapporteurs who have shown the best of politics these days; all the staff in this house, the lawyer, who always makes it all the easier; the whole Ministry of Economy and its vice-president for leadership. Ladies and gentlemen, we have worked together to add ideas, proposals, listen to us, dialogue and propose improvements to this bill by the Government of Pedro Sánchez which looks to the future with the determination necessary to improve it, changing everything that does not work. Our country has always been a land of entrepreneurship, a land of men and women who have not been afraid to make their way. That is why this law also comes to do justice to all of them. It is right that today, in your home, in the House of Congress of Deputies, in the seat of national sovereignty, we open the door to a better country, with more opportunities and more hope, and that is what we are doing when we vote on this bill. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u24	Good morning. Madam President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this is a good law, but like so many others, it should be subject to the improvement that would be granted by the rural guarantee mechanism, that is, passing through the rural filter, the rural proofing that we have often talked about in this House. The creation and growth of enterprises is much more difficult in the unpopulated provinces and regions, marked by the atoning economy and the demographic crisis. This law must be adapted to these conditions of rural entrepreneurs, to small enterprises which are in many cases located in the rural world of this emptied Spain and which have particular characteristics, such as their specialization in agri-food activities, in rural tourism, in the care of the elderly, in the services sector, in retail trade or in construction and renewable energy. In these provinces, in the creation of enterprises, in addition to the simplification of the institutional framework, the reduction of administrative bureaucracy and in the improvement of coordination, communication and collaboration between administrations - which this law already establishes - two additional measures are essential: on the one hand, the implementation of the processes of territorial management and environmental assessment, which are unimplemented or remain in the role, in the face of such serious issues as the massive deployment of renewables or the installation of micro-ranges; and on the other hand, proactive action by the State to stimulate the creation of innovative enterprises in dynamic sectors, on endogenous resources and human capital. In other words, there is a need for a change in the focus of extractive sectors, which take precedence over the predatory approach to opportunities in rural areas, such as disorderly renewable energy or massive livestock farming, which I have mentioned. And we say extractives because we see no commitment on the part of renewable companies, for example, neither to generate jobs in the territory nor to remove the installed wind turbines when their production cycle is over, nor to compensate the landowners. Lease contracts, for example, do not usually meet these conditions. Moving from this extractive approach to a proactive enterprise economy focused on endogenous rural resources, with a circular economy that generates jobs and products of differentiated quality, must be the objective and to this end, aid with well-directed public incentives is very effective. This would be the case, for example, of regional State aid approved by the European Commission as operating aid for companies located in areas with serious depopulation problems and which, as the Commission itself points out, could be applied in the provinces of Cuenca, Soria and Teruel, whose population density is less than 12.5 inhabitants per square kilometre. This would help SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises. Alongside the structural measures of this law, which we value as appropriate incentives, it would also be necessary to promote measures of a territorial and sectoral nature in order to give specific attention to the enterprises of this rural environment in the unpopulated areas, since this is where it is most needed and where it is most difficult. For example, we believe that small businesses should be helped in digitizing their business and also in rules derived from the law, such as the application of the electronic invoice. By providing some data, only 35% of small business and self-employed enterprises use e-invoices in Spain, and this percentage is reduced to just 4% in the primary sector. Therefore, if the electronic invoice is implemented, these companies need the Administration itself to help them carry out these procedures by creating portals or computer tools to facilitate these procedures in a simple way. In other cases, the situation is even worse because companies do not have access to the Internet, as the Internet does not reach many empty areas of Spain. [[The Lord]] They will hardly be able to complete electronic invoices that do not have access to the Internet, and that is another competence of their ministry. The same applies to the allocation of subsidies, and we have reflected this in our amendments. Small businesses often suffer financial imbalances as a result of delays in payments by large companies or by the public administration itself. When this happens, the little financial muscle of small businesses makes them incur delays in their payments, which puts them in a situation of lateness, and this is derived from the first default that they themselves are suffering and from the lack of capacity to deal with this problem. For this reason, we believe that the invitations to tender should not be excluded for small businesses that are in a situation of lateness, but rather that we should look at where this lateness comes from. If that debt is motivated by the fact that the company is a creditor of other companies or the public administration, it should not be excluded from the calls for subsidies; precisely, it should pursue financial incompetence and reward those companies that are bearing the financial incompetence of others. Similarly, it would be necessary to establish other territorial and sectoral aid for the rural environment in Spain which has been emptied, by providing incentives and support for sectors which are at the heart of economic activity and job creation in this rural environment. For example, it would be necessary to promote a plan for the rehabilitation of housing and energy efficiency linking the PRE 5000 aid with housing rehabilitation aid and the creation of rented housing. A plan to extend designations of origin and protected geographical indications could also be promoted to highlight high-quality products that are marketed without distinction. In addition, and generally for the rural environment, to accompany these incentives with the public action of fiscal measures to encourage the rehabilitation of housing in the rural environment, with deductions from the IRPF for purchase, rent or rehabilitation, so as to boost the activity, facilitate the rehabilitation and maintenance of the residential park, which is a limiting factor for repopulation. Similarly, the reduction of the tax on transmissions for the purchase of housing in rural areas, the reduction of VAT in works of rehabilitation and energy efficiency or support services and forestry exploitation, such as the implementation of the forest cent. In emptied Spain, despite the difficulties, there is also entrepreneurship, but it needs specific and intelligent public support. Spain cannot waste entrepreneurial talent, resources or 70% of the territory, and we therefore call on the Government to commit itself to the SMEs of the rural world. Do not allow the project of rural entrepreneurs to be lost because the State has not invested enough. You will know that phrase that says that perhaps the cure of cancer is trapped in the mind of a child who cannot pay for his or her education, a phrase that is usually used to exemplify that access to education must be free, but we can also think that perhaps the next big business project is trapped in the mind of some entrepreneur who cannot grow his or her business because he or she does not have the Internet or transportation infrastructure in his or her people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u26	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs. We will discuss the Business Creation and Growth Bill. The truth is that you, who are so fond of propaganda, in the end you have appropriated it in the expression "Create and Growing Law", that the same applies to what concerns us at this time as to a law of birth promotion. A law with which I imagine you will try, if approved, to transmit to the population that practically from tomorrow Spain is Silicon Valley, and nothing is further from reality. The law they propose is a collage of reforms. You in a text amend eleven laws and a real legislative decree and what you do in the background is change fifty-eight rules between articles and provisions and, by the way, create a couple of observatories, which never come wrong for friends. [[Laughter]] In order to promote the business climate, Minister, legal and economic security is important, and its latest actions in Indra through SEPI and its lack of respect for the goodness of statistical information do not go in that direction. We'll see if this affects us among investors. Then there's the language. You always use corrupt language. They talk about entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship because they find it difficult to use the word enterprise and entrepreneur. It is not the same as an entrepreneur as an entrepreneur, because what we need is not people with initiatives only, that that is an entrepreneur; we need an entrepreneur, that is an entrepreneur who also risks his assets. [[Applauds]] As I have told you, it is practically a law of cuts, where you update corporate, commercial, financial and register aspects. In the end - which has been the most important - they have made a constitutional fit of the problem that we had with the law of market unity and that is why they will get the support of the independence groups. They present as a star measure the possibility of creating a company with 1 euro, and they miss what is important. The minimum social capital - in an economic, non-legal sense - is not 3000 euros or raise them, it is the minimum investment that the entrepreneur needs to make. It is true that the law requires it to be 3000 if it wants the form of society. The entrepreneur could already perfectly make that minimum investment below 3000, what happens is that then he could not have the corporate form. And why did he take the corporate form? For two reasons that we totally forget. One, to delineate his patrimonial responsibility; that is, so that his personal and family heritage would not be affected by society. This could have been achieved by allowing individual entrepreneurs a delimitation of their professional assets that was the limit of what they could lose if they failed. And the second reason why you were doing it - you know - was because of a tax problem, because there is a strong tax arbitration between declaring income tax when you have an economic activity by natural persons that by corporations. Basically, what you don't solve is a problem that Bertrand de Jouvenel warned us about in The Ethics of Redistribution in 1951. You are asking the individual entrepreneur when it would not be necessary to do so; it would be much better if you allowed the individual entrepreneur to be an individual entrepreneur. On the other hand, you say that you eliminate the 3000 euro requirement, but it is not true because you put an implicit endorsement in the members' rule to society. The other issue is lateness. Morosity is not solved by creating observatories. I understand that someone will put you there, but no. Neither with sanctions nor putting problems to public procurement for those who have some outstanding obligation; really, it is solved with incentives, and we have proposed many incentives during this legislature. The universal application of the cash criterion for the settlement of income, company and VAT taxes. It only pays taxes what is charged and only deducts what is paid. [[Applauds]] Public morals don't even treat it. He's been told several times, and even his partners have put it in his face. Public lateness seems to exist, but you might well, if the state of the art permits, create a single taxpayer account for which we could charge against any debtor balance of an Administration the obligations we had, regardless of which adversary was. That would indeed be a country project for the Reconstruction, Transformation and Resilience Plan - yes, sir - to create a system of multilateral compensation for all taxpayers against all public institutions. For the umpteenth time they promote the unique windows. Well, what are we going to tell you, but let's hope the e-government works, Minister, because it's not working. Market unity requires value: to believe in Spain as a project. You have a very large part in this House that does not believe in the unity of Spain as a project and, therefore, it is impossible for that to work. [[Applauds]] Business financing requires less mistrust of those who ask for money, and then there is the bureaucracy. The bureaucracy, which you - some have told you - have failed to solve, reduces the productivity of our companies, lowers wages and generates part of the inflation differential that Spain has. Some of the inflation is of monetary origin, the fault of the European Central Bank, and another - we are not going to deny it - is due to external events, but another part is purely of this government and of the previous governments because of the many obstacles that Spanish companies have to operate. You are the last - you lose everything and you are also the last in employment, which was the only thing you lacked; unlike Nadal, you are really your reverse - and, as you are demonstrating with your last maneuvers, you have very wrong to lose. What Spain needs - I conclude, president - is that the government respects the law and interferes less in the activities, that requires less taxes and social burdens, that liquidates the taxes according to the current of charges and payments, that eliminates tax arbitration between natural and legal persons and limits the property responsibility of individual entrepreneurs...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u27	Mr. Manso, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u28	... to the patrimony affected by its commercial activities. None of this we see in this law of amply name and low flights. Thank you very much, Minister. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u29	Thank you. - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/1985, OF 1 JULY, OF JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, IN THE MATTER OF MERCANTIAL JUDGMENTS. [[File number 121/000083]] - DRAFT REFORM LAW FOR THE REFUND TEXT OF THE COMPETITION LAW, APPROVED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION 1/2020 OF 5 MAY, FOR THE TRANSPOSITION OF DIRECTIVE 2019/1023 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 20 JUNE 2019, ON PREVENTIVE RESTRUCTURING FRAMEWORKS, EXEMPTION OF DUTY AND INHABILITATIONS, AND ON MEASURES TO INCREASE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RESTRUCTURING, INSOLVENCY AND EXEMPTION OF DUTY PROCEDURES, AND AMENDMENT OF DIRECTIVE 2017/1132 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL, ON THE DETERMINED ASPECTS OF THE RIGHT OF SOCIETY [[DIRECTIVE ON RESTRUCTURING AND INSOLVENCY]] [[File number 121/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u30	We turn to the opinions on the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 6/1985, of 1 July, on the Judiciary, on commercial courts, and to the draft Law amending the consolidated text of the Competition Law, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2020, of 5 May, for the transposition of Directive 2019/1023 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019, on frameworks for preventive restructuring, debt relief and disqualifications, and on measures to increase the efficiency of the procedures for restructuring, insolvency and debt relief, and amending Directive 2017/1132 of the European Union, of the European Parliament and of the Council, on certain aspects of company law, which will be discussed cumulatively in accordance with the agreed by the Board of Spokespersons. [[Restructuring and Insolvency Directive]] I would remind you that the amendments to the Commission's opinions will be voted on at the end of this debate. To defend the amendments to this legislative initiative, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u31	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on many occasions the limitations of existing insolvency systems have been pointed out. In other words, the slow and scarce use of the competitive instruments, the low utilization of the tender compared to the countries in our environment, the majority completion of these winding-up processes, often dragging the same creditors into insolvency chains, and, among many other limitations, the reduced use of the second opportunity. In this context, the transposition of Directive 19/1023 is seen as an opportunity to have rapid and effective competition procedures to ensure that insolvent debtors have access to the exemption from their debts, aligning with the harmonisation of Union requirements in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and also, on one occasion, to protect employment and the maintenance of business, by articulating preventive restructuring frameworks to avoid insolvency and ensure the viability of businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft laws that we are discussing deal with these issues with regulatory changes to adapt the division of jurisdiction in the jurisdictional sphere in order to facilitate the functional application of both the directive and the consolidated text of the Competition Law, downloading to the courts of the Mercantile of some of their current competences in favor of matters considered more relevant, such as the knowledge of the competition of creditors, of natural persons who are not commercial subjects, as well as the right, no longer only the benefit, of the exemption of the unsatisfied liability so that they are judges and judges specialists who know these issues, as well as the process of specialization of the first and second instance of the commercial specialists of civil jurisdiction, amendments that we share. Alongside this, and in order to increase the effectiveness of the procedure, the competition procedure is reviewed to speed up and make it more effective, although perhaps with an excess of voluntarism it is established its maximum duration in twelve months from the opening of the first phase to the closing of the fifth. Ladies and gentlemen, the average duration of 4.5 years is inexhaustible, but the new maximum duration will depend, as the Council of State points out, on the workload of the commercial courts, on the work of the competition administration, on the electronic means employed and on the functioning of the system in general. The same can be said of the provision for appeals to provincial hearings to be resolved within two months. In this same procedural area, one of the most relevant developments is the establishment of the special procedure for micro-enterprises in order to achieve in line with the directive a greater speed and efficiency of the competition procedure, in addition to ensuring, in particular for self-employed and small entrepreneurs, that they stop going through alternative procedures such as private debt negotiation, overcoming their reluctance to compete because of their current slowness due to the current difficulty of exonerating the debts of natural persons. To this end, Book III deals with a new procedure with less costs based on official forms, with a double itinerary and no face-to-face, since all acts will be carried out electronically, a procedure in which, following the acceptance of numerous amendments, including those of our parliamentary group, its scope has been reduced in line with the novelty of the new one and the postulation has been recovered, because its exclusion raises reasonable doubt as to the right of defence and effective judicial protection, and its entry into force has been postponed, since the effectiveness of the new procedure requires, in advance, the availability of forms, the operation of electronic services and the approval of the implementation guidelines, as well as the implementation of the settlement platform, which can certainly be complex. Without forgetting, for the proper functioning of the system, the need to approve the rules of competition administration in order to clarify the functions of the various figures that can converge in these procedures, such as mediators, experts and the same administrators, which must be remembered that it drags a normative slope since 2014 to verify the professional fitness for the access to the activity, their appointment and their remuneration, in order to be able to overcome the transitional validity of the rules contained in the Competition Law in its drafting to the entry into force of Law 17/2014, and without prejudice to the fact that last-minute amendments to articles 61 and 67.4 of the draft law have clarified some important issues. Ladies and gentlemen, another milestone in this reform is the most effective configuration of the second opportunity procedure to exempt natural persons who have acted in good faith once the liquidation phase has been opened, where it has not been possible to approve or comply with the agreement or, where appropriate, the continuity plan, and in order to allow them to reintegrate into economic activity, along the lines of the classic principle of universal patrimonial responsibility contained in 1911 of the Civil Code. In order to achieve this, the extension of the exceptions contained in article 487 had to be limited during the parliamentary process so that certain debtors could have access to the exemption from their unsatisfied liabilities when they had been criminally convicted or punished administratively. The same applies to the initial claim of the project to prevent the exemption from public credit. This has also been corrected in the parliamentary process. Ladies and gentlemen, public credit, both against state and foreign finances and against the General Treasury, will no longer be an insurmountable obstacle to the effectiveness of the second opportunity, since it will benefit in full more than 90% of natural persons, since, according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, referred to in the year 2021, from the competitive processes presented by those natural persons, only 7% have debts greater than EUR 5000 with the State Tax Treasury. And if we are talking about the self-employed, who were 3512 compared to 10,000 of the other natural persons, 75% did not have debts above 5000 euros, their average debt being 14 000. I would like to remind you that exempt public appropriations, following the amendments, can reach EUR 10,000 with state and non-state finances, and the same amount and under the same conditions with the General Treasury of Social Security. The failure to link public claims to restructuring plans, continuation plans or the same opening of negotiations has also been corrected, limiting the execution of assets and rights necessary for the continuity of the debtor's business or professional activity arising from public law claims. It has also been established that the approval and approval of the continuation plans will not require approval, provided that the withdrawals of ordinary credits under public law do not exceed 15%. Book II, for its part, deals with a complete transformation of the pre-competitions with a single procedure: restructuring plans, establishing for them a regulatory framework for completing the negotiations and protecting the interests at stake and with limited judicial intervention, so that debtors can detect their difficulties as soon as possible and take appropriate action, because the sooner they take them, the more likely they will be to avoid insolvency. In this connection, part of the legislation in force has also been amended in order to allow for the application of deferrals and instalments of credits with the State Treasury in a voluntary or executive period, without the need for guarantees, up to a limit of €30,000. Finally, Mr President, I welcome the intensive work of all the parliamentary groups to improve the draft - also that of the ministerial representatives and the services of the House - and regret the short time that we have had, since the deadline for transposition of the directive was urgent and the milestone at the end of the month linked to the recovery and resilience funds also expired. A reform of this stalemate needed more calm; we will see how it works. And he pointed out two last questions: the retributive limitations to the competition administration in contests to be known, which possibly retract the most skilled...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u32	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u33	It's over, one second. ...and the insaculation of the debtor competing as Administration in the special procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u34	Thank you. Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u35	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Today we have two laws: a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary on the competences of the courts of the Commercial and the issue of the Competition Law. Of course, we have had a lot of work on all the speakers in the Committee on Justice and we have brought these laws out in record time. The truth is, I'm very proud of the work I've done. Perhaps to those who are not of my world, to those who are not jurists, it seems this of the Competition Law or the courts of the Mercantile a little roll, unsexy, but the truth is that for those who like the law it has been a great satisfaction to have speakers of a great size in other parliamentary groups. Thanks to the efforts of all of us, we have succeeded in correcting that absolutely insufficient and completely disappointing bill, which the Government had submitted to us. The truth is that it is one of those moments when you expect Mr. Aranda to come up here, to thank the opposition for improving that thing that the Spanish Government presented to us, that bill that was jointly drafted by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. Finally, when the European Commission is in a hurry to establish milestones, you can see how quickly the government comes here to process the laws, taking the rest of the horsenails to process these things, while the law trying to protect the families who have an ALS patient is still there, in the box, and they are not taking them forward. With regard to the courts of the Mercantile, of course, we are going to vote in favour of this reform, because we believe - as the original law itself says - in the specialization of the courts of the Mercantile. This brings legal certainty, brings homogeneity of criteria and brings greater quality in resolutions, all very desirable things, but we find ourselves with the usual, which Mr Santamaría, the People's Party, myself and other spokespersons have shown. Great - Mr Legarda has already said - we are going to establish a competition in the natural person in the Commercial Court and we are going to extract a number of transport complaints that are going to go to the Courts of First Instance. Yes, but, as always, without a hard one in the personal and material media of the Administration of Justice. We're always the same. We're going to reform the procedural laws, we're going to reform the organizational laws, but we don't put money; more judges we don't have; more Justice Administration lawyers there isn't; more judges, more judicial offices we're not going to give them. In the end, everything falls under the responsibility of these public servants, who are behind their backs the functioning of the public justice service. For concessions to separatists or for the 1300 government advisors there is money, but for the courts of the Mercantile there is no money. We also keep alive, in this regard, our amendment that there should be a commercial court specializing in those places where there are five or more courts of first instance, and I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment that we keep alive. As far as the Competition Law is concerned, we find ourselves, as I say to you, with a chapucera law, with one of those laws that miraculously achieves when it appears as a bill is to anger all the protagonists of the competition world; then, one begins to receive here, in the Congress of Deputies, the complaints of lawyers, prosecutors, lawyers of the administration of justice, of the judges of the mercantile, of the competition administrators, of the economists, of specialists in restructuring, of the entities of realization of assets, of the registrars of property and merchants; all angry with this bill. In addition, we find that the ministries set out a timetable for the reform of this important law, since the competition moratorium ends precisely today - tomorrow we can have an alluvion of statements of contest -, presenting the project to public information in August 2021 - a text that can enter into force, according to how the Senate goes, in August 2022-. Today, as I say, we find ourselves overcoming the moratorium on the Competition Act and 17 July was the maximum date for transposing European directives. Finally, as you can see, an integral bundle, an absolutely infernal processing schedule, and yet we have cured all of the House's 607 amendments that we have had to deal with in two weeks. Indeed, everyone here is angry, but in the end we have managed to improve it. What happens to this text? That's a very unambitious text. This is the sixth reform of the Competition Law in ten years. We had the opportunity to have made a good text precisely for the time that has come for us to live, when from tomorrow there will be a lot of presentation of companies in competition, and the government has been very cowardly, very cowardly. I should have accepted many more amendments than we have proposed to you by the rest of the parliamentary groups. And, look, here I will tell you one thing clearly: in this Congress of Deputies, when there is no talk of Catalonia or when there is no talk of ideological content we all agree - VOX, Esquerra, Podemos, that Mr Uriarte has played a very important role in this negotiation - but the government, tied to which he is always right - the PSOE government - and with his peculiar and particular pride, has not wanted to give us the things we asked of him. Yes, as Mr Legarda says, there is important progress on the exemption from public credit, from BEPI, but we have also remained at the door of doing something much more ambitious, because the basis for the exclusion of public credit is to enable the second chance, where there are more companies and more jobs and, therefore, this justifies the sacrifice of public credit. Why is this a disappointing law? Why is it an unambitious law? I don't make it up. One is still in the chat rooms of the judges, of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, of the staff at the service of the Administration of Justice, of the lawyers who dedicate themselves to the competition, and everyone tells you the same thing. I, as a sample button, have taken an article from yesterday's Economic Journal Expansion, where a lawyer from the Administration of Justice, who is called Álvaro Perea, says: Look, gentlemen, so you can't legislate, with this calendar; the laws need quiet. And he says one thing that has made me very graceful, and I believe that Mr.Legarda also agrees with this: With this law, with this reform, in the halls of Congress are those who sanctify themselves rather than those who breathe relieved. Mr Legarda said it very well: We will see how this reform works. And so you can't legislate, you can't legislate by saying: there I launch this reform, you didn't empower the Justice Administration and see how this works! Maybe next month we're on another new reform project. Says this lawyer of the Administration of Justice - who will know something about justice - that the collapse is assured and that this law is a toast to the bureaucracy. And in case the president of the government understands that the expansion newspaper is a media terminal of the factual and political powers, I will tell you that the five-day newspaper, which does not seem to be suspected of being an enemy of the government, in its June 22 edition also expresses the same doubts. And yes, we have improved the micro-symes procedure, we have accelerated the out-of-court payment agreement, we have given a letter of nature to the so-called pre-pack for the viability of production units, we have improved on cross-border competitions, we have improved on the requirements of the competition manager, but, look, until the last day, until the last day!, the Socialist Party maintained Amendment 603, that amendment that offered the return of Dolores Delgado to the State Attorney General's Office. Do you believe that a competition law can thus be negotiated that affects all companies in this country or many of the companies in this country, maintaining that blackmail that we have to go through so that Dolores Delgado comes with a higher category when he returns from the Attorney General's Office of the State? I will tell you what amendments we are keeping alive. In the area of public credit, it is also important to regulate or rectify the privilege of public credit, the right to separate enforcement, the requirement that tax and social security claims must be made available to the public in order to benefit from certain benefits. No progress has been made in the early warning system and one of the participants highlighted the importance of hosting the Danish system. This must be very modern for the Socialist Party and very disturbing to them. There are also amendments relating to the procedure both the ordinary and the special, in relation to the requirements of the restructurer, in relation to public registers. I would therefore like to say to you that my group, in fact welcoming the fact that the Socialist Group has rectified a great deal and we find this law improved among all, are going to abstain as a result of this lack of ambition. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u36	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two initiatives at this stage, the proposal for a law amending in part the powers or scope of the Commercial Court and the reform of the Competition Law. Let me give you a little thought on each of these two issues. Firstly, with regard to the draft law amending the powers of commercial courts, this is undoubtedly a consequence of the adaptation to the State legislation of Directive 2019/2013, which has a side effect in the reform of the Competition Law, which we will then address. In any case, we understand that this adjustment in the competences between the courts of the Mercantile and the courts of First Instance to free the commercial courts from what issues is a correct adjustment and that, for our part, it has the approval and the favorable vote for it to prosper. In fact, this bet on the specialization of the commercial courts we see well, while we will defend it also when the draft law on organizational efficiency is processed for other courts. In this area, they are aware that the time limit under the Children's Act has already expired for specialized juvenile, family and capacity support courts. Therefore, this line of work in the specialization of courts, as has been done with the Commercial Court, we understand that it also has to be a line of work in other areas of justice to improve service, to improve ultimately the resolution of cases in the judicial field. This is going to be a line of work on the organizational efficiency bill that is coming. Turning now to the question of the draft law on the reform of the Competition Law, the truth is that, first of all, we must thank, how not, the work that has been done in the House by the parliamentary groups, the spokesmen, given the volume of amendments tabled - I must tell you that, without a doubt, the PeCAT was the one that presented the most amendments to this draft law - but we must also thank all the representatives and all the people who have helped us, outside these walls of Congress, to work the texts, to work the initiatives, to value the positions in relation to the work that was supposed to be a law of this magnitude. The truth is that here there was the temptation to make only one transposition of the directive, and we saw it not only as the duty to transpose the directive, but as an opportunity to address three issues that were strategic for us: one, the maintenance of legal aid; two, the question of SMEs and the special procedure, and, three, the question of public credit. In this area, our amendments and the compromises and transactions that we have come to support support the mandatory interception of defence counsel in procedures that we understand to be complex and with very relevant consequences, for which it was not logical that the project should come out without this legal assistance in the processing of these competition projects, as well as the definition, characteristics and profile of the competition administrators. We understood that it was necessary for those professionals who would accompany the persons subject to the competition procedure to be qualified professionals in the field. The SME issue, a procedure that was called special but ended up affecting virtually all the companies that went through a competition. We have managed to reduce the scope of the special SME procedure so that it is indeed a special procedure for SMEs, with levels of turnover and levels of the number of workers who comply with the reality of a special procedure. Finally, there is the question of public credit, which was incomprehensiblely overprotected in the bill. Today we are convinced that this access to the second chance is going to be possible for more than 90% of natural persons, even for more than 80% of natural persons who carry out some kind of economic activity, increasing those discounts to which the Administration -1000 euros of Social Security and 1000 euros of Finance - rising up to 20,000 euros -10 000 euros of Social Security and 10 000 euros of Finance -, with the corresponding sections of that item of 5000 and 5000. We understand that there was certainly an approach here to transposing the directive, but real work has been done and the opportunity has been taken to improve the content of the competition legislation and the competition processes. That is not all, but we understand that it contemplates necessary progress, significant progress and that they can improve, which is ultimately what moves us, the help to people, businesses and SMEs who suffer from the situation of going through a competitive procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u38	Thank you so much. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u39	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The present laws, contestal and the courts of the Mercantile, are the result of a technical work, of a processing that has been removed from the usual political polemics. We want to begin by saying that we welcome the specialization that has been achieved in the courts of the Mercantile, as the Member before me was now saying, and we also want to express our desire that this specialization be extended to other areas, to other judicial orders. The text of the competition law reached the green courts, without having matured sufficiently in the ministries, but we can say that it has been improved in the parliamentary process. An important moment in this process was undoubtedly the development of expert appearances, a long day, in which the professional world, university professors, representatives of schools, administrators, economists, lawyers, representatives of chambers of commerce brought up to date many demands coming from this world in relation to the draft law that was being processed, some of which have been collected, although it is also true that many have remained in the taintero. Together's objectives have been, firstly, to deal with processing in a way that will facilitate the reception of European legislation, but not only to comply with the transposition procedure, but also to give reception to the spirit of the European directive, and, secondly, to prioritise the continuity of economic activity and also the continuity of employment. For this, and we do not stray from the rest of the groups, we think that procedures have been established to speed up the competitions, but above all it has been possible to give a reinforcement to what has been popularly called the second chance. I believe that allowing a second chance for insolvent individuals because of their entrepreneurial, entrepreneurial and self-employed activity is the most important part of the legislation we have adopted today. This has mainly been achieved by achieving an acceptable regime in relation to public credit, tax and social security debts, as at least one way has been opened by which a significant part of insolvency situations can find a way out. For us, a party like Junts, which defends the Catalan social and productive fabric, whose DNA is entrepreneurs, self-employed, micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, this has been crucial as it will allow natural persons to have a second chance, not be condemned for life and continue to undertake, creating social wealth and public benefit, also in the form of work and social security contributions. Finally, from this DNA of the social and productive fabric of Catalonia we want to denounce a tendency, a certain conservationist aroma of the state, a suspicion of the flexibility, diversity and entrepreneurial capacity of society that we think is also contrary to the spirit of the directive being transposed. In this regard, we regret that some initiatives by schools, chambers of commerce and SME business associations, which undoubtedly improved the standard and made it more flexible - Cambra de Comerç de Sabadell, Pimec, ICAB and others - have remained half or directly in the tinter; certainly, in an independent Catalonia, with full legislative capacity, also in this area the result would have been another. In particular, we regret that the participation of chambers of commerce and business associations in the competition process has not been attended, as we regret the incomprehensible maintenance of many privileges and formalities in the competition that favour public credit, especially - it has already been mentioned - being aware of the payment of social security and tax quotas to access the benefits of the competitors, formalities which, in accordance with the spirit of the law and in accordance with the spirit of the directive being transposed, should have been exceeded. We also regret that the early warning system, as pointed out by the competing experts, due to its formalities and the rigidity with which it has been conceived, is disabled in order to prevent companies presenting indications from becoming insolvent. Finally, we also regret that the possibility of acquisitions by linked persons and workers has not been included in the final text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u40	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u41	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. I will try to be brief because we have already said all this and repeated so many times that many of us, the members of the Commission, have already heard too much. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all the entities and organizations that appeared on the day they were convened, and that, from month to month, have accompanied us throughout the process of drafting amendments by helping us with proposals and ensuring us; from here, my thanks. And, above all, my thanks to the Commission's lawyers, who have done a lot of work with this law, so it is thanks for their dedication and effort. As previous colleagues have already said, we received a text which had nothing to do with what the Community directive asked for, which had nothing to do with the spirit of the directive. What did we do? That the representatives put on the table that that was not what the directive requested. So, thanks to the pressure of the representatives in their day and of all the parliamentary groups - because curiously all the parliamentary groups, except the Socialist Party and the United We can, we were against what that bill was saying - it has been greatly improved with the more than six hundred amendments that have been tabled. A text has come out that is not what we would have liked, but it is much better. And we have left many amendments alive, of which I shall refer to three or four. One of them is the 266 - which is similar between different groups, we present it to different parliamentary groups - which refers to transitoryism. It is precisely a question of avoiding injury to the debtor who has already initiated a competitive examination procedure prior to the entry into force of the law. Another of our amendments, 265, refers to the fact that the declaration of competition may be the cause of ERTE, so that jobs can be protected when there is a sale of a company and that company plans to continue its activity; that is, we protect workers. Another of our amendments to 274, which proposes that it be valued at the time of the liquidation phase of a company, when there is no possibility of transmission of that company or of any UPA, that the workers can collect from Fogasa without waiting for the firmness of the dismissal decree. And finally, the 276 for us was very important, since above all there were many entities - like the Chamber of Commerce of Sabadell and also Pimec - that insisted on the mediation system. There are many of the groups that have put pressure on this law to include mediation by business associations that are already performing this function, and the results are very positive. A very succinct reference has been made on this subject, but it has not remained as we would have liked, there has not remained a more comprehensive development of this mediation system. Nevertheless, as I said at the outset, the text is much better, not everything we would have wanted, but it is closer to the spirit of the directive. And I don't want to end without remembering that we are dedicated to organizing the justice system - my colleague Edmundo Bal has also commented - we are in charge of organizing the entire justice system, but we don't have any more funds, and we say it and repeat it to the full. More funds, material means and personal means are needed to be able to provide justice as a real, effective, efficient and, above all, proximity public service. Even so - as I have said - the text is improved and that is why we are voting in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. I will refer in my speech to the draft amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary in the matter of the Commercial Courts, whose basic idea is no other than that of residence in these courts the competence to process and resolve all the competitions, including those of the natural non-traders, objective that we consider correct, since the legislative response to the insolvency situations is unique, it seems logical that, regardless of the circumstances surrounding the competition, the judicial competence is also identical. This reform will see the light just when the economy of the Spaniards is worse, as a result of the failure of this government's policies, and there are aspects of this reform that seem very wrong to us. First, the amendment to article 83 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary is a capital error. Population criteria are established to determine when a province may cease to have Mercantile courts or when a population other than the provincial capital has the right to have its own. It has already been said in the Commission that Elche's case points out very well how wrong the reform is, since it has no more than 250,000 inhabitants and is bordering on that of the provincial capital. According to the project, a city of the industrial importance of Elche could not have its own Commercial Court today. In addition, the population criterion applies exclusively to municipalities and not to judicial parties, which are the territories where jurisdiction extends. The difference can be decisive; Elche again takes the Government's reasoning away. [[Applauds]] The correspondents of abandoned Spain intend to deepen the gap and inequality by allowing a province to be deprived of a judicial body. We already know that you are more of autonomous communities than of provinces, but I must remind you that article 141 of the Constitution states that the province is the territorial division for the fulfilment of the activities of the State, and justice is one of them as an expression of its sovereignty. What a better element of Spain's social and territorial cohesion than that which all the provinces have with all the judicial bodies. Its plan of measures in the face of the demographic challenge also does not correct it, as it does not speak of family or birth, only of residence, climate change and gender perspective. [[Applauds]] Secondly, the Government allows autonomy to undermine the State's own powers in the area of justice, which we find irresponsible and possibly unconstitutional. The decision of the Government is conditional on a favourable report from the Autonomous Government. Can you imagine what would happen at the door of a negotiation of the General Budgets of the State? Conversely, what would autonomy say if its laws were to be subject to the approval of the Government of Spain? Here the governing body of the judges is emptied a little further to give it on a tray to the autonomies. By March 2021 they had limited the powers of the serving General Council to appoint judges. On Friday, however, the PSOE rectified itself, but not to correct but to further control justice, as it turns out that it will now allow the General Council to elect two Constitutional magistrates. That's right, no prior reports and nothing from the Supreme, no TSJ, no hearings. What changed then? I'm telling you, the huge judicial mess the government and the PSOE are having. This is autocracy; we said it, VOX was right. [[Applauds]] By the way, did you know, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos? Did you know that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Leave judges to choose judges and do not abduct their impartiality. Third. Competition is also reformed to deal with passengers' claims in collective transport, which is drawn from the Mercantile courts, where complaints are effectively resolved today in favour of the Court of First Instance. Tremendous error, for the courts of instance, already collapsed, are going to collapse even further. If they must strengthen the courts of the Mercantile somehow, do so, but not at the expense of moving the competences. And, fourth and last, the reform will be approved out of date. This Government considers the model of justice obsolete and intends to implement the model contained in the organizational efficiency project, replacing those tried by courts of instance, where competences are already reflected in a specific way as here. Reasons for legislative technique, procedural unity, effectiveness and coherence would justify a single project. Spain urgently needs an agile and effective justice, and Spain also needs a new government. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u44	Thank you. Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u45	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a missed opportunity. I would like to thank the other rapporteurs - less Mr Aranda - for the treatment we have had in the discussion - at a single presentation meeting - of a 2019 directive amending another 2017 directive, namely 1132. Thus, on the 23rd day, in the Committee on Justice, a law was passed in two days, containing six hundred and seven amendments and involving more than two hundred legislative reforms. An absolute failure as legislators. They have prevented a debate, as has been said, from paused, a calm and conscientious debate on a law that affects us all, that affects the citizen, that affects SMEs and that affects the self-employed, that ultimately affects the economy of this country in a tangential way. It has four large blocks, which I believe are important: restructuring plans, the second chance, the special procedure and the competition administration, basically. As far as restructuring plans are concerned, the figure of the restructuring expert is introduced, which will see what the rating is at the end and whether or not it works. As for the second chance, I'm coming in now. As regards the special procedure, which was not the subject of European transposition, the scope of application is reduced in relation to the liabilities of the undertakings concerned, the percentage of public credit is increased to bring the debtor into liquidation and the application for attorney and attorney is imposed. And as far as the competition administration is concerned, certainly - and here we have some representatives - this figure is clearly demonized in this law; something has been harmonized or reassured, but not sufficiently. As for the second chance, yesterday the providence made him receive this car in the office. [[Show a document]] This is a car of benefit of exemption from the dissatisfied liability, a car in which a customer is exempt - and I have to say because I promised - for an amount of EUR 1 064 000. Do you know when the procedure that led to this EUR 1 064 000 benefit-exempt order began, which is no longer a benefit and will now be called a benefit-exempt order? I started it in October 2015, when we had the royal decree that the People's Party made that way, a week before the debate on the state of the nation; that Royal Decree 1/2015, which later became Law 25/2015, second chance. There it was not possible to legislate well, because it was not granted; article 1911 of the Civil Code was feared. Fortunately, in several judgements, not only from Catalonia, but also from Mallorca and other jurisdictions, in Supreme Court judgements of 13 March 2019 and 2 July 2019, the exemption of public claims was achieved. With this we find here a very strange situation, which links with the amendment - and they do not withdraw it - 266 of Squerra Republicana, in which the transitional first talks about continuing the procedure of consecutive competitions through the old legislation. What's the meaning of this? The meaning is that with the new law you will be able to exonerate less public credit than with the previous one, because on the basis of the principle ultra vires, which Mr Bal and the lawyers who are here know very well, you cannot accept the reform that extralimits the law, ultra vires, as did the consolidated text that banned the exemption from public credit. The Supreme Court, in the words of Sancho Gargallo himself, made it very clear: the exemption from public credit is still applicable. For the time being, a calculation has been made on very specific quantities. With all the calculations that I have, through the derivation of the liability of the natural person - who already know how the Tax Agency shoots - simply by the relation of the Competition Law in article 5 of article 367, I can assure you that cases of derivation of the liability of the natural person for 150,000 euros or 100,000 euros are being kicked, and the Tax Agency is willing to continue to exist. This exemption from public credit does not serve us, it does not serve the second chance at all, and it is crushing the self-employed. And, above all, we ask that the transitory first be maintained, not because they are Catalans or because this happens mainly in Catalonia, because in other hearings it is also happening. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u46	Thank you so much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. As has already been said, today we are voting on the European mandate to transpose the directive of Parliament and of the Council on preventive restructuring, debt relief and to improve the efficiency of restructuring and insolvency processes. The truth is that, after listening to some of the assessments that have just been made, I must say that neither I nor my parliamentary group share the optimism of some of the groups that have appeared. We are much closer to Mr Bal's vision of this rule, which we share almost one hundred percent, because we sincerely believe that we have remained half way and that the measures that will surely be adopted today will not be all the useful that some announce, which certainly advises in the parliamentary sphere greater prudence in the assessments. The text we are proposing to adopt today by the Government is far from defining an effective early warning system to prevent the insolvency of firms in difficulty; it is far from defining an effective debt-exempt system that reduces the privileges of public credit, where the government's scarring takes us far further away from Europe than it brings us closer to it; it is far from improving the restructuring mechanisms and the role and circumstances in which restructuring experts will have to act, and it is also far from guaranteeing the right to a second chance, which means bringing a good number of natural entrepreneurs - i.e. self-employed - to the submerged economy, if not unemployment. And this is something that the People's Parliamentary Group will never agree to. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a matter, as the President of the Government would say, well-solved, and it is not well-solved because the law does not create effective instruments to ensure the survival of firms with difficulties and, therefore, is not a guarantee of safeguarding the employment of those firms in difficulty, nor is access to the second chance, which is the main engine of our economy, as are the entrepreneurs and the self-employed in our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we are not faced with a well-solved issue, but with a timid transposition of the directive and a lack of ambition. Some colleagues have already said this: We are faced with a missed opportunity. It is true - as Mr Legarda said - that it includes progress, but too timid and insufficient progress that our productive fabric we think will pay very dearly in terms of lack of prosperity, loss of instruments of effectiveness to save the viability of companies and in terms of employment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote in favour of this rule, and we will not, because we do not believe that it contains the solutions that our productive fabric demands and that Europe demands. We will not, moreover, because this is a law that forgets - as Mr Bal has said - to create new courts of the Mercantile. It is a law that is not accompanied by a contingency plan that provides the necessary material and human means and that my group calls for to reinforce this flood of competitions that will affect the courts of the Mercantile, as a result, firstly, of the end of the moratorium, but secondly, of the very bad economic situation that Mr Sánchez is bringing to Spain. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an orphan law of economic resources, a law in which the forms have not been respected. The forms, ladies and gentlemen, in democracy are very important, and they are because they summarize the system of guarantees and counterweights of democracy and the democratic quality of a country. As always or almost always, the Government has neglected them, if it has not disregarded them directly, and has done so without any kind of blush. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the Competition Law aroused an enormous interest in the various actors involved in the process: self-employed, SMEs, trade union and business organizations, consulting professionals, competition administrators, registrars, economists, specialized entities, notaries, lawyers, prosecutors, second chance associations, chambers of commerce, arbitral tribunals, associations of the judiciary and also and especially Mercantile judges. The Government had the generosity to devote to them, as has already been said, a space of three weeks during the month of August, while the ministry was on vacation, and they were reserved a single day to be able to participate in the work of the Commission - only nine people were able to participate - and all while the Government took more than two and a half months to resolve the amendments submitted by the opposition. That has been the reality and sadness of the parliamentary process that we have had to endure or that we have had to survive. Among these amendments, reference has already been made to the famous amendment 603, whereby the Government intended to introduce a reform of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions so that Ms. Dolores Delgado, Minister No. 23 of the Government, could jump, when she ceases as the State Attorney General, 467 posts from the escalphon, applying the maximum that favorably is paid. This amendment will remind you that Commissioner Reynders was denounced by the Association of Prosecutors and that he set all the alarms in Europe, such as the recently announced rule on the modification of the powers to appoint the Constitutional Court. It is an amendment which, if it is not in the text of the law today, is not because the Socialist Party has changed its mind or because Mr Sánchez has ceased to think that the prosecutor's office is his particular court; it is not in the text of the law because the government does not have a sufficient majority of votes to approve, because that was his wish and we have been told this throughout the whole process. Ladies and gentlemen, the forms have also not been respected with the hasty parliamentary procedure - I say this in particular by thinking of the lawyers of the Commission, the lawyers of this House, who have done a magnificent job - because the six hundred and seven amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups have been sleeping the dream of the just in the ministerial departments of Justice, Economy and Finance for two and a half months - I do not know if it is the nine and a half weeks of the film - and then we have had to deal with them in a hasty manner within almost three days. In this process we have been surprised by one issue. First of all, the gallery in which the Sánchez Executive had become known, with half the Government making opposition to the other half of the Government, but what they did not know was that the socialist ministers of the Government were also incapable of understanding each other, as has happened in this law, in which they had to be two parliamentary groups of the majority supporting the Government, the PNV and the PeCAT, who went to the government rescue to negotiate with the Ministry of Finance, eye!, which the Ministry of Justice was not able to negotiate. I wonder if that doesn't prove the Minister of Justice's irrelevant. And where is the Minister of Justice when a Competition Law is passed that belongs to her field? [[Applauds]] I imagine it's gone from the hard winter lethargy to the warm summer lethargy. Finally, allow me to congratulate - I sincerely do - the PNV and DeCAT for helping to improve this rule and for achieving what the Ministry of Justice was unable to achieve. Sincere congratulations, but not content, ladies and gentlemen, and not content because, since all the parties coincided - as the representative of Esquerra has said, we coincided about 70% or 75% of the content of the amendments - it would have been much more logical than the government had come to our positions and not us to the positions of the government negotiated by the Basque Nationalist Party and PDeCAT, but I understand that for these political forces the Sánchez Government is a lemon which still has a few drops to be squeezed, I imagine that in terms of European funds. These are political issues that I do not value, although I cannot fail to reflect that in the end you have oxygenated a government and this will probably be bread for you today, but hunger for all, including you tomorrow. You know that this is an exhausted government, a government that no longer has anything to contribute and yet much to hinder, and to which I am soon, sooner rather than later, convinced that they will stop oxygenating, because Sánchez is today far more a hindrance than part of the solution of the problem demanded by the Spaniards. With regard to the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary on matters affecting the competence of the Commercial Courts, we shall vote not in the Commission and we shall vote again not in plenary. Both these rules and the competition rules are not norms with a deep ideological background, they are technical norms, and in this law we have adopted the technical criteria after listening to the magistrates of the Mercantile, and they do not understand why the law chooses to end with the specialization of the courts of the Mercantile and the unity of criteria that they guarantee in the resolution of the conflicts arising from the transport of passengers; they do not understand that they are given competence to already saturated courts and for which neither plans nor means nor reinforcement nor money nor new courts or material or human means, as much of the opposition claims. The law, as I say, speaks in its orphaned parliamentary handling of resources, and we cannot share this view. We will deviate from the maximum grate, which says that once crazy with everyone I sane alone, because the sense of responsibility forces us to be sane alone. He concluded by thanking the services of the House, genuine sufferers of the urgency with which this law has been dealt with, and also the rest of the speakers for the good working climate within the Commission, although it did not serve to bring closer the positions that we had already quite closed. My personal thanks to Carolina, Josep, Roberto, Genís, Juanjo, Ferran, Mikel, Edmundo...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u48	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u49	..., Miguel Ángel, Alejandro and also an excellent opponent, Mr Paco Aranda, who is now celebrating years - I wish him happiness by approving the Competition Law - and who is also a good companion. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u50	Thank you. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u51	President, dear colleagues, indeed, it is a law of second chance, and the second chance is an idea that is not only applicable to procedural justice, but is applicable to justice in general and is even a way of understanding the world. Faced with the idea that the world is based on a cruel competition, in which only the best win, that it is composed of winners and losers and that by a law of meritocracy and by a law whose existence no one has demonstrated, that it is that of the invisible hand, each one has what it deserves, Faced with this there is an idea that understands that the human being and the enterprises that the human being undertakes go through moments of difficulty, moments of uncertainty, in which they need the help of the community and of the institutions to have a second chance in life. It is a way of understanding the world that underlies this law. We had a competition law that was not particularly bad, but it was a slow and inefficient competition law, as is most of our justice, and that is why this Government, the Ministry of Justice in particular, is engaged in a package of measures to make justice faster, faster, more efficient, measures that include this law, in addition to the law of organizational efficiency, procedural efficiency, etc. It's an absolutely necessary package. To this whole normative package, what has our parliamentary group tried to contribute? We have submitted to this Competition Law a total of fifty-four amendments which have tried to introduce technical improvements, improvements in the functioning of the competition mechanism, but above all something fundamental of what was lacking in the original project, which is social content, that is, a different way of understanding the company which is much more in line with what the Constitution says and with what is a social and democratic state of law, which is not a liberal state. A social and democratic state of law understands that the enterprise is not only the entrepreneur, but that it is the two factors that make up it, the entrepreneur and the workers. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments that seek to give a social meaning to this law and to understand that the company is all that set that must be rescued. We have tabled some amendments - I would like to pay particular attention to transactions 4 and 5 - in which we are trying to stop all the small businesses that make up the best of our productive fabric, companies that have three or four employees and in which the company's owner, in addition to having a transitional liquidity problem, often also has a generational relief problem. There are thousands of companies that are lost each year and it is important that they stop getting lost when their employees can assume responsibility for them. We have tabled two amendments so that when workers want to turn them into social economy enterprises, cooperative enterprises, labour societies, they can do so. We tell the judge to give preferential attention to that proposal that comes from the company's own workers to save, to rescue the business project from third people and to allow them to capitalize on what they have contributed to unemployment, because it is of justice. [[Applauds]] So we will be able to save thousands of businesses in this country and we will make the constitutional mandate of Article 129.2 be implemented, that companies be saved and that conventional companies are committed to the social economy, which is the greatest and most beautiful thing this country has. The great American scientist Lynn Margulis, a person little known - perhaps because that scientist was a woman - disassembled the entire Darwinian paradigm, the whole idea of social Darwinism, the whole idea of human beings progressing in a hypercompetitive way and leaving each other behind, surviving only the strongest. Lynn Margulis disassembled that paradigm and demonstrated that simple competition without cooperation does not allow for progress, that the progress of societies, the progress of plant species, of animal species and above all of the human being is due more to cooperation, to mutual support than to competition. If the President allows me, I will make a request to all the groups of this Congress and also to the Government of Spain to transmit to this youth that we have in this country, which is a real luxury - we have a better prepared youth than ever in history - the idea that the economy is not only progressing for individual initiative, for the particular interest, and that the general interest should be abandoned to an invisible hand that no one has shown it exists; that people can co-ordinate and match their particular benefit, their particular interest with the general interest, with the common good of society, and that this is how societies progress, as Margulis has already shown. This is something they have not been taught in their education system, because they have neither been taught who Lynn Margulis was, nor have they been taught what article 129 of the Constitution says. If such a well-prepared young man knew these things, he would probably be much more responsible for the future of his country. At the moment I would like to express my thanks, on behalf of my parliamentary group, especially to the Undersecretary of the State of Justice and the rapporteur, Mr Aranda - whom he also congratulated on his birthday - and I would also like to thank the opposition groups for their contributions, particularly Mrs Telechea, Mr Legarda, Mr Bal, Mr Santamaría and all the others. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I wanted to do is to thank my colleague Roberto Uriarte and my colleague Chema Guijarro for their perseverance in the reform of the Competition Law that has just been defended by Roberto, since the offer of workers is given priority in order to rescue his company in the event of a competition procedure. So thank you for always being next to the workers, fellas. [[Applauds]] Although the previous Competition Law had understood the need to adopt a draft organic law amending the Organic Law of the Judiciary in the matter of commercial courts, he wanted to explain that it was important as long as there was a need to make certain adjustments in the design of the division of jurisdiction to commercial courts and specialized sections of provincial courts, with a law on efficiency and rationalization of the justice service, in order to promote the agility of the proceedings before these judges and specialized sections. This involves deepening the specialization of these courts and sections, as well as preventing them from collapsing, by assigning to the courts of first instance some subjects which are less technically complex, but which involve too much workload, as we have seen so far, for specialized courts. And it is that the courts of the Mercantile were created precisely to ensure that the subjects of greater technical complexity were resolved by specialized judges, thus also granting greater guarantees of quality and homogeneity in the judgments and also greater speed to the process. The goal of speed has not been met. [[The lady]] Currently, the length of proceedings before the courts of the Mercantile, in competition matters, has increased exponentially from 2012 to 2019, reaching fifty-five months, i.e. four and a half years. In view of this fact, it is impossible to achieve the objectives of this new Competition Law without this reform, also taking into account that with the cessation of the competition moratorium or, which is the same, that exemption from the duty to apply for the declaration of competition which falls on the debtor who is in this state of insolvency, it is clearly expected that the competitions will be fired in the last quarter of the year. Therefore, apart from promoting other mechanisms, which are also necessary, that improve the efficiency of justice, for example, the promotion of the use of extrajudicial means, mediation, to resolve disputes, this reform is absolutely necessary from our point of view, and it is also necessary to promote a more homogeneous, technical and faster justice, which is essential for the success of the new Competition Law. I'm on my way. It should be noted that these technical improvements are incorporated in this project, and we understand that this reform carries out a competitive redistribution that is balanced, appropriate and that will allow the competition procedures to be dealt with quickly and efficiently, not only as the European Union demands - I recall - but also our Constitution, in the right to obtain effective protection...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u54	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u55	... of judges and courts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Tizón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main functions of the Administration of Justice is to resolve disputes before the courts. Today we bring to this Chamber the adoption of an organic bill that pursues two fundamental keys: speeding up and achieving efficiency in the handling and resolution of cases. It is a sister law of the Competition Law, which balances the division of powers of the courts of the Mercantile and the specialized sections of the provincial hearings and, correlatively, that of the other sections and courts of first instance; a law which acts as a solution to the great increase in cases, which have increased exponentially. I'll give you an example of what's happening in the summer season. Who has never had an incident with the airlines or knows any family member or friend who has. There are thousands of lawsuits accumulated for loss of suitcases, for delays, for cancellations, many still not admitted. Following the implementation of the mediation procedure, voluntary and non-binding for the passenger and binding and compulsory for the airlines, this law brings as a novelty that its competence passes to the courts of first instance, a solution that responds to the demand of the judicial sector. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to find the right road map to reduce the length of the cases of the Mercantile courts, which is the most collapsed body, with proceedings lasting almost fifty-five months, more than four years on average. The number of cases admitted from 2015 to 2019 was reduced by 26%, but the number of cases resolved was reduced by only 29.8%. Here is the first key: agility in the handling and resolution of cases. Our laws must adapt to changes and respond to citizens' demands, so it is essential to seek solutions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your proposals are purely incremental. More tried, they say. Read the law, read it, because it already envisages the creation of new courts or the extension of its jurisdiction to other provinces. [[Applauds]] But it's not just about quantity, it's about quality. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we could not raise this parallel law with the competition without talking about the competitions of non-entrepreneurial natural persons in situations of personal economic crisis, cases that have reached in number that of entrepreneurial legal persons, becoming one of the main sources of work for judges. What's the problem here? The award of these competitions, under popular government, to the courts of first instance, a completely wrong decision because it lacks the necessary knowledge to resolve. And what was the result? A two-speed justice, in the processing of the competition and in the matter of unpaid debts, and the courts of the Mercantile experts in the field will be those who recover the competition. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is committed to quality laws, adapted to the European framework, laws that protect the bad economic situations of citizens, and are an oxygen balloon for businesses. Here, the second key, the effectiveness of case handling and resolution, something that will come in hand with procedural and digital organizational efficiency laws. Moreover, this law, although it may seem brief, will be fundamental support of the Competition Law. I would like to thank the contributions of civil society and legal actors. I would also like to thank our advisers from the parliamentary group, the groups in this House who have facilitated the way for us and my dear Paco Aranda for always helping me. [[Applauds]] It is essential to transform our public service to make it more agile, efficient and quality. This must be the way to widen a bottleneck that still drowns our justice. As the former jurists said, ad justitiam per ius, to justice for the law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tizón. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Santamaría, there are poisoned gifts. Anyway, thank you for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, the day has come. Today we pass the competition law, a capital law for our system, a law that draws an integral treatment of the pre-competition, the competition and the second chance for those who, in good faith, lose everything. It has been a long process, where the whole sector has been given a voice, and if we have done anything it has been listening, the government, of course, but also my group, the socialist. It has been heard and advanced in texts that make of this law, at the exit of this House, a better law than how it entered. Sometimes they've heard me say that wanting a hundred percent usually leads to zero percent, so it's preferable, sometimes, an agreement at eighty percent that includes different visions. This is the right way, and we have done so, and so I think it came out of the vote in the Committee last Thursday. That is why this opinion, plus some amendments that we are voting on today and some technical adjustments, close a circle that was certainly very open two months ago. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I make a collective appeal to satisfaction - sometimes I see faces, and I think we must be happy - for what is being voted on today, for what we have achieved today: a milestone within the reach of this House. It has been the tireless work of many people in this House that has allowed us to stand before a law that modernises, that simplifies, that expedites a really complicated process; before a law that has taken into account registrars, notaries, lawyers, prosecutors, trade unions, competition experts, chambers of commerce and so on, to people and groups that have seen many of their demands recognized; before a law that takes into account workers, yes, because it guarantees that many of their demands are recognized... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u61	He said that it is a law that takes into account workers, because it will prioritize their offers, because those winning offers will have to include that the staff is respected and because it allows to capitalize on the unemployment of workers. It's a law that doesn't just think about capital. Ladies and gentlemen, the defence of workers and their rights is a flag with many hands, and our Socialists have been there for 143 years, and we will never leave that flag. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, legislating is not a binary task, it is not programming a few zeros, it is not black or white, it is not or you take my thing or I vote for nothing. To legislate is to seek the best possible solution with the greatest possible consensus. There, at that crossroads, between the best and the most dearest, is where we move. At this point, I would like to thank you. First of all, to my parliamentary group, for the tireless work and support, especially Pedro and Montse, thanks for everything. To the Ministry of Justice, to its minister, for involvement, for leadership. Also to the ministries of Finance, Economy and Inclusion, because they have been hours and hours, and texts. Thank you, especially, to James and Chus, because this law would not be possible without you. Also, I would like to thank the Court Relations Team, led by its Secretary of State, because without them it would be impossible to be here today as well. Thanks also to the lawyers, who have been holding us for three years. Thanks also to the spokespersons who accompany me, who, despite the criticisms in this rostrum, have done a good job. They will allow me to speak also of Mikel Legarda, because it is fair to recognize his inexhaustible breath in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the competition law is a necessary law, a law that responds to European demands and which is a courageous bet on the reform of our competitive and pre-competitive system. It is a law that directly faces digital and technological transformation and will allow for more agility and flexibility in the competition processes. Flexibility, feasibility and efficiency are the three words that summarize this law. It is a timely, necessary text that faces an essential and urgent change in the competitive system. That's why I say it's a brave law. It fulfils two clear objectives: firstly, to reduce time and costs, and secondly, and almost more importantly, to ensure the viability of companies and thereby the future of our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been, as always, a great responsibility and a great honor to process this law on behalf of my group and as a spokesman for Justice, with listening, with the capacity to agree, as I always try to do and as my colleagues have instilled in me, being aware that a strong pact is one that is based on the construction of agreements, that the bridge of understanding is forged with materials such as the word, the transaction, the loyalty, the honesty, even to say no, even to disagree. Ladies and gentlemen, we should all be joined by two issues. The first, to legislate as best as possible and the second, to exclude from the debate those who use it to lie, insult or disqualify, because our example is what will form the image that citizens see from us. [[Applauds]] The corporal. They told me in the Commission, at the time, to criticize our willingness to dialogue, that that was a symptom of weakness, and they have repeated it today. I'll tell them, and let me put it in the record, that I think it's just the opposite. The political strength lies in the broad gaze, in generosity, in serious work and in knowing that a good agreement is always preferable to a sound discrepancy. The political strength, ladies and gentlemen, lies in your convictions and your work. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the vote, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Juan Antonio Delgado Ramos, he asked Don José Luis Bueno Pinto if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u64	From my Republican convictions and in defense of the working class, yes, I promise. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u65	Don José Luis Bueno Pinto has acquired the full status of deputy. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Business Creation and Growth Bill. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group Amendment 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; 107 plus 10 telematics votes, 117; 195 plus 21 telematics votes, 216; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u67	It's rejected. Amendment 24. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 75 plus 6 telematics votes, 81; against, 230 plus 25 telematics votes, 255; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u68	It's rejected. Amendment 26. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 147 plus 15 telematics votes, 162; 158 plus 16 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u69	It's rejected. Amendment 28. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 132 plus 15 telematics votes, 147; 160 plus 16 telematics votes, 176; abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u70	It's rejected. Amendment 30. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 14 plus 1 telematics vote, 15; against, 276 plus 30 telematics votes, 306; abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u71	It's rejected. Amendment 32. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 18 plus 1 telematics vote, 19; against, 284 plus 30 telematics votes, 314; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u72	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 20 plus 1 telematics vote, 21; against, 276 plus 30 telematics votes, 306; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u73	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendments 174 and 175. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 136 plus 14 telematics votes, 150; 164 plus 17 telematics votes, 181; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u74	They're rejected. Amendment 185. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 91 plus 9 telematics votes, 100; against, 214 plus 22 telematics votes, 236; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u75	It's rejected. Amendment 189. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 15 plus 1 telematics vote, 16; against, 231 plus 25 telematics votes, 256; abstentions, 63 plus 5 telematics votes, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u76	It's rejected. Amendment 190. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 70 plus 5 telematics votes, 75; against, 229 plus 25 telematics votes, 254; abstentions, 10 plus 1 telematics vote, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u77	It's rejected. Amendment 197. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 139 plus 14 telematics votes, 153; 162 plus 16 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 8 plus 1 telematics vote, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u78	It's rejected. Amendment 198. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 139 plus 14 telematics votes, 153; 165 plus 17 telematics votes, 182; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u79	It's rejected. Amendment 199. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 91 plus 9 telematics votes, 100; against, 164 plus 16 telematics votes, 180; abstentions, 54 plus 6 telematics votes, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u80	It's rejected. Amendment 200. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 58 plus 5 telematics votes, 63; against, 247 plus 26 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u81	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 135 plus 14 telematics votes, 149; 169 plus 17 telematics votes, 186; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u82	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendments 87, 89, 91-93 and 96-101. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 340 in favour, 18 in favour, 281 in favour, 312 in favour and 31 in favour, 312 in favour, 10 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u83	They're rejected. Amendment 88. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 277 plus 30 telematics votes, 307; against, 3; abstentions, 29 plus 1 telematics vote, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u84	It's approved. Amendment 90. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 65 plus 5 telematics votes, 70; against, 155 plus 17 telematics votes, 172; abstentions, 89 plus 9 telematics votes, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u85	It's rejected. Amendment 94. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 70 plus 5 telematics votes, 75; against, 146 plus 17 telematics votes, 163; abstentions, 93 plus 9 telematics votes, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u86	It's rejected. Amendment 105. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 58 plus 5 telematics votes, 63; against, 222 plus 25 telematics votes, 247; abstentions, 29 plus 1 telematics vote, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u87	It's rejected. Amendment 110. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 132 plus 14 telematics votes, 146; 165 plus 17 telematics votes, 182; abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u88	It's rejected. Amendments 113 and 114. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 64 plus 5 telematics votes, 69; 226 plus 26 telematics votes, 252; abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u89	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 18 plus 1 telematics vote, 19; against, 267 plus 30 telematics votes, 297; abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u90	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. Amendment 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 19 plus 1 telematics vote, 20; against, 286 plus 30 telematics votes, 316; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u91	It's rejected. Amendment 42. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 31 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 97 plus 9 telematics votes, 106; against, 203 plus 22 telematics votes, 225; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u92	It's rejected. Amendment 43. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 25 plus 1 telematics vote, 26; 273 plus 30 telematics votes, 303; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u93	It's rejected. Amendment 44. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 102 plus 9 telematics votes, 111; against, 191 plus 21 telematics votes, 212; abstentions, 16 plus 1 telematics vote, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u94	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 340 votes in favour, 19 against, 273 votes in favour and 304 votes in favour, 304 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u95	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 147. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 73 plus 5 telematics votes, 78; against, 151 plus 17 telematics votes, 168; abstentions, 85 plus 9 telematics votes, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u96	It's rejected. Amendments 150 and 163. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 72 plus 5 telematics votes, 77; against, 222 plus 26 telematics votes, 248; abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u97	They're rejected. Amendment 162. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 24; 267 plus 30 telematics votes, 297; abstentions, 18 plus 1 telematics vote, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u98	It's rejected. Amendment 168. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 148 plus 14 telematics votes, 162; 139 plus 16 telematics votes, 155; abstentions, 22 plus 1 telematics vote, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u99	It's approved. [[Applauds]] The rest of the amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 22; against, 271 plus 30 telematics votes, 301; abstentions, 15 plus 1 telematics votes, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u100	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 54 and 74. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 139 plus 14 telematics votes, 153; against, 159 plus 16 telematics votes, 175; abstentions, 10 plus 1 telematics vote, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u101	They're rejected. Amendments 57 and 77. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; 128 plus 14 telematics votes, 142; 166 plus 17 telematics votes, 183; abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u102	They're rejected. Amendment 72. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; 139 plus 14 telematics votes, 153; 166 plus 17 telematics votes, 183; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u103	It's rejected. Amendment 76. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; 131 plus 14 telematics votes, 145; 168 plus 17 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u104	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 31 telematics votes, 338; 137 plus 14 telematics votes, 151; 167 plus 17 telematics votes, 184; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u105	They're rejected. Particular vote No 1 on Amendment 166 of the Republican Parliamentary Group, tabled by the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 175 plus 17 telematics votes, 192; against, 83 plus 9 telematics votes, 92; abstentions, 50 plus 5 telematics votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u106	The individual vote was adopted. Transactional amendments. Transactional amendment 1 to Amendment 103 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; 164 plus 17 telematics votes, 181; 129 plus 14 telematics votes, 143; abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u107	It's approved. Transactional amendment 2 to Amendments 136 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi, and 170 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 253 plus 26 telematics votes, 279; against, 45 plus 5 telematics votes, 50; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u108	It's approved. Transactional amendment 3 to Amendment 14 of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; 166 plus 17 telematics votes, 183; 136 plus 14 telematics votes, 150; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u109	It's approved. Transactional amendment 4 to Amendment 15 of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; 166 plus 17 telematics votes, 183; 136 plus 14 telematics votes, 150; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u110	It's approved. Transactional amendment 5 to Amendment 22 of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 31 telematics votes, 338; 170 plus 17 telematics votes, 187; 126 plus 14 telematics votes, 140; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u111	It's approved. Technical correction of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Republican and Plural, Mr Bel Accensi, to Article 2a. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; 260 plus 26 telematics votes, 286; 45 plus 5 telematics votes, 50; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u112	The technical correction was approved. - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/1985, OF 1 JULY, OF JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, IN THE MATTER OF MERCANTIAL JUDGMENTS. [[File number 121/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u113	Draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary in the matter of commercial courts. Amendment 10 tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 340 votes in favour, 9 against, 296 votes in favour, 327 votes against, 327 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u114	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 25; 281 plus 31 telematics votes, 312; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u115	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 21. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 82 plus 9 telematics votes, 91; against, 216 plus 22 telematics votes, 238; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u116	It's rejected. Amendment 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 136 plus 14 telematics votes, 150; 171 plus 17 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u117	It's rejected. Amendment 25. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 87 plus 9 telematics votes, 96; against, 175 plus 17 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 47 plus 5 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u118	It's rejected. Amendment 26. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 127 plus 14 telematics votes, 141; against, 178 plus 17 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u119	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 136 plus 14 telematics votes, 150; 171 plus 17 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u120	They're rejected. - DRAFT REFORM LAW FOR THE REFUND TEXT OF THE COMPETITION LAW, APPROVED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION 1/2020 OF 5 MAY, FOR THE TRANSPOSITION OF DIRECTIVE 2019/1023 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 20 JUNE 2019, ON PREVENTIVE RESTRUCTURING FRAMEWORKS, EXEMPTION OF DUTY AND INHABILITATIONS, AND ON MEASURES TO INCREASE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RESTRUCTURING, INSOLVENCY AND EXEMPTION OF DUTY PROCEDURES, AND AMENDMENT OF DIRECTIVE 2017/1132 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL, ON THE DETERMINED ASPECTS OF THE RIGHT OF SOCIETY [[DIRECTIVE ON RESTRUCTURING AND INSOLVENCY]] [[File number 121/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u121	Draft law amending the consolidated text of the Competition Law, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2020 of 5 May, for the transposition of Directive 2019/1023 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on frameworks for preventive restructuring, debt relief and disqualifications, and on measures to increase the efficiency of the procedures for restructuring, insolvency and debt relief, and amending Directive 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of company law, restructuring and insolvency. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] Amendment 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 53 plus 6 telematics votes, 59; against, 140 plus 16 telematics votes, 156; abstentions, 116 plus 9 telematics votes, 125.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u122	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 61 plus 6 telematics votes, 67; against, 143 plus 16 telematics votes, 159; abstentions, 104 plus 9 telematics votes, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u123	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendments 1, 5, 9 and 29. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 54 plus 5 telematics votes, 59; 151 plus 17 telematics votes, 168; abstentions, 104 plus 9 telematics votes, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u124	They're rejected. Amendments 7, 14, 17, and 19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 136 plus 14 telematics votes, 150; 156 plus 17 telematics votes, 173; abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u125	They're rejected. Amendments 26, 34, 35 and 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 9; 157 plus 17 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 143 plus 14 telematics votes, 157.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u126	They're rejected. Amendment 44. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 12; 152 plus 17 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 145 plus 14 telematics votes, 159.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u127	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 9; against, 156 plus 17 telematics votes, 173; abstentions, 144 plus 14 telematics votes, 158.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u128	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Boadella Esteve. Amendments 117 and 129. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 68 plus 5 telematics votes, 73; against, 141 plus 16 telematics votes, 157; abstentions, 100 plus 10 telematics votes, 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u129	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Boaella Esteve. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; 69 plus 5 telematics votes, 74; 145 plus 17 telematics votes, 162; abstentions, 94 plus 9 telematics votes, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u130	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. Amendment 287. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 66 plus 5 telematics votes, 71; against, 152 plus 17 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 91 plus 9 telematics votes, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u131	It's rejected. Amendment 319. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 64 plus 5 telematics votes, 69; 161 plus 17 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 84 plus 9 telematics votes, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u132	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 29; against, 146 plus 17 telematics votes, 163; abstentions, 133 plus 14 telematics votes, 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u133	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 228, 232, 245, 257 and 261. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 102 plus 9 telematics votes, 111; against, 144 plus 17 telematics votes, 161; abstentions, 62 plus 5 telematics votes, 67.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u134	They're rejected. Amendment 265 and 274. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 31 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 35; against, 142 plus 17 telematics votes, 159; abstentions, 131 plus 14 telematics votes, 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u135	They're rejected. Amendment 266. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 145 plus 5 telematics votes, 150; 159 plus 17 telematics votes, 176; abstentions, 5 plus 9 telematics votes, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u136	It's rejected. Amendment 267. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 21; against, 236 plus 25 telematics votes, 261; abstentions, 52 plus 6 telematics votes, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u137	It's rejected. Amendment 276. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 340 in favour, 141 in favour and 18 in favour, 159 in favour, 137 in favour and 13 in favour, 150 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u138	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 31 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 21; against, 144 plus 17 telematics votes, 161; abstentions, 142 plus 14 telematics votes, 156.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u139	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendments 551 to 553, 561 and 569. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 45 plus 5 telematics votes, 50; 179 plus 17 telematics votes, 196; abstentions, 85 plus 9 telematics votes, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u140	They're rejected. Amendment 567. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 45 plus 5 telematics votes, 50; against, 173 plus 17 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 91 plus 9 telematics votes, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u141	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 45 plus 5 telematics votes, 50; against, 171 plus 17 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 93 plus 9 telematics votes, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u142	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 390 to 394. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 136 plus 14 telematics votes, 150; 152 plus 17 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u143	They're rejected. Amendments 402, 447 and 455. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 82 plus 9 telematics votes, 91; against, 173 plus 17 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 54 plus 5 telematics votes, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u144	They're rejected. Amendments 405, 411, 416 and 429. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 82 plus 9 telematics votes, 91; against, 168 plus 17 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 59 plus 5 telematics votes, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u145	They're rejected. Amendments 439 and 440. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 91 plus 9 telematics votes, 100; against, 156 plus 17 telematics votes, 173; abstentions, 62 plus 5 telematics votes, 67.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u146	They're rejected. Amendment 475. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 136 plus 14 telematics votes, 150; 156 plus 17 telematics votes, 173; abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u147	It's rejected. Amendment 476. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 91 plus 9 telematics votes, 100; against, 155 plus 17 telematics votes, 172; abstentions, 63 plus 5 votes, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u148	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 91 plus 9 telematics votes, 100; against, 168 plus 17 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 50 plus 5 votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u149	They're rejected. Transactional amendments. Transactional amendment 1 to Amendment 45 of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 218 plus 22 telematics votes, 240; abstentions, 91 plus 9 telematics votes, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u150	It's approved. Transactional amendment 2 to amendments 75 of the Basque Parliamentary Group, 165 of the Plural Parliamentary Group - Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Boadella Esteve -, 242 of the Republican Parliamentary Group and 449 and 452 of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 305 plus 31 telematics votes, 336; against, 1; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u151	It's approved. Transactional amendment 3 to Amendments 101 and 171 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Boadella Esteve. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 226 plus 22 telematics votes, 248; against, 1; abstentions, 82 plus 9 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u152	It's approved. Transactional amendment 4 to amendment 379 of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 181 plus 17 telematics votes, 198; 81 plus 9 telematics votes, 90; abstentions, 47 plus 5 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u153	It's approved. Transactional amendment 5 to the transactional amendment in the Commission relating to amendment 330 of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 173 plus 17 telematics votes, 190; 90 plus 9 telematics votes, 99; abstentions, 46 plus 5 telematics votes, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u154	It's approved. Technical correction 1 of the Socialist and Basque parliamentary groups to the explanatory statement. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 175 plus 17 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 134 plus 14 telematics votes, 148.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u155	The technical correction was approved. Technical correction 2 of the Socialist and Basque parliamentary groups in relation to Article 242.1.3 of the consolidated text. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 309 plus 31 telematics votes, 340; 183 plus 17 telematics votes, 200; abstentions, 126 plus 14 telematics votes, 140.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u156	The technical correction was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 12.30 p.m., i.e. from now on and for two hours, until 14.30 p.m. today, the rest of the items on the agenda, which will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting, will be voted on by telematics. I should also like to inform you that this plenary session includes the debate and adoption of the opinion of the Draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary on Commercial Courts. In view of its organic nature, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, he announced that the votes would not take place before 3.30 p.m. Thank you so much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the amendments adopted by the Senate to the Proposal for a Law amending Law 19/2013 of 9 December 2013 on transparency, access to public information and good governance, in order to regulate statistics on the field of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement. [[SMEs]] Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please, so that we can continue with the debate. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you again, please, if you want to leave the Chamber, to do so in silence. Mr. Lopez-Bas, anytime, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u159	Thank you, President. I will intervene very quickly - a little less than a minute - simply to say that we are voting yes to the amendments that come from the Senate, in particular for the amendment of the transparency law. But I would like to point out, as my colleague Maria Muñoz did at the time during the procedure, that this legislative technique of using the final provisions in an original text to introduce real tax changes, as has been done in this case in the amendment of the transparency law, with a minimal change in public procurement for SMEs. This final provision is used precisely to introduce a whole tax reform, as I say, in matters other than the original text, in the area of manufacturing tax, import and intra-Community acquisition of fluorinated gases. With this in mind, this Government and the groups that support it mostly have not been able to bring the opacity in the legislative process - precisely in terms of transparency - or have not been able to bring this Congress down in that legislative function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u160	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia in common. [[Pause]] Mr Bustamante is not in the Chamber. Well, feeling it very much, we will have to move on to the next parliamentary group. Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[applause.-Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we take up the statement made by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia in common and therefore Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u161	Thank you, President. From the United States we can understand... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u162	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u163	... that small and medium-sized enterprises are vital to the Spanish economy, accounting for 99.8% of the business fabric, and also accounting for 66.4% of employment. I would like to point out, from this perspective, the vulnerability of these small and medium-sized enterprises to situations of economic crisis and to highlight the measures of protection towards SMEs that have been addressed by the United States during this parliamentary term, through the social shield, which contrast with the neoliberal policies that were applied by successive governments, both of the Socialist Party and of the People's Party, in the previous economic crisis, resulting from the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, which entailed millions of layoffs and also the closure of thousands and thousands of businesses. In the previous economic crisis, the neoliberal exit resulted in a significant loss of our productive fabric as a result of adjustment measures. I remember the adjustment decree of May 2010, which lowered the salaries of public workers; the labour reforms of 2010 and 2012, which led to the precariousness of employment, to facilitate dismissal, and which also involved the convening of three general strikes: one against the 2010 labour reform and two against the 2012 labour reform. The reforms of the public pension system in 2011 and 2013, which increased the retirement age, which reduced the purchasing capacity of pensioners through the revaluation rate introduced by the People's Party, or the adjustments and cuts in public services, such as education, health or dependency, which made employment levels in 2010 not recover until 2017 and which obviously led to a breakdown in the Spanish productive fabric. In contrast to these neoliberal policies, with the entry of the United Nations We can in the government in this legislature and in the face of the economic and social crisis resulting from the pandemic, from the health crisis that caused the gross domestic product to fall by 10.8% compared to the 3.8% that was the maximum fall of the previous economic crisis, a social shield was articulated for protection of work, protection of the family and protection, therefore also for small and medium-sized enterprises, such as the ERTEs have been mainly within the social shield, which have mobilized billions of public money and which have gone from being a mechanism of job extinction to a mechanism of employment protection that has protected 3.6 million workers, along with aid for the cessation of activity to self-employed workers, who have protected one and a half million workers. These two mechanisms of public intervention in the economy and in the productive model have saved millions of jobs and hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, further facilitating the early recovery of employment. We currently have more than 20 million people affiliated with Social Security, which is a record, and unemployment levels are the lowest, no longer just before the pandemic, but for the past 15 years, we are at unemployment levels in 2007. Protection measures therefore result in employment recovering for the first time above the economy, which is still more than 5 points below the pre-pandemic level. The minimum wage has been raised to EUR 1000 since 735, more than 35% of the increase, affecting millions of workers. We have always been told by neo-liberal economists that raising the minimum wage was detrimental to the economy, that it was not going to be hired, and yet we have seen how with raising the minimum wage recruitment and raising the minimum wage small and medium-sized enterprises have benefited from the greater purchasing capacity of the social majority, which we are workers. Adjustment and cut-off policies have been hampered, the budgets for the years 2021 and 2022 are the most expansive and the most social in history, and the purchasing power of pensions has been restored by repealing the pension revaluation rate, which caused pensions to rise by 0.25 % and not to rise prices. Therefore, a series of expansionary policies, social policies and protection policies for workers, families and small and medium-sized enterprises, which have saved hundreds of thousands of SMEs and enabled them to have a record number of jobs despite the profound economic crisis resulting from the pandemic. All these policies are an example of the commitment of our parliamentary group, of Unidad Podemos, of our political space, also of the Government, to the productive sectors, especially to workers, but also to small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to highlight the work being done since the 2030 Agenda to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises and small municipalities have access to PERTE. It is therefore clear the commitment of our political force, our political space, to small and medium-sized enterprises. We understand that this law is positive because it increases transparency in public procurement by regulating the publication of statistics on the percentage of participation of public contracts allocated to SMEs; it is positive because it increases transparency in public procurement, makes it possible to make diagnoses for the design of public policies and their evaluation and can also develop that smaller companies in our country can have greater participation in the provision of State goods and services. But we also want to point out the limits of this initiative, since there are no clauses for the public procurement of small and medium-sized enterprises or impulse measures, and we understand that if we really want to - we appeal to the proposing group of the proposed law -...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u164	Mr. Bustamante, you have to go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u165	Yeah. ... if we really want to encourage SMEs to participate and facilitate their entry into the processes of awarding administrations through service contracts, supply contracts or works, the Public Sector Contracts Act should also be addressed. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Bustamante. Now, for the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u167	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very clear to us that an abuse is taking place today, as the spokesman for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group said earlier. What the Socialist Group has done in dealing with this motion for a law is shameful: it has stolen the debate in this Parliament, they have used in a way, we could say, fraudulently the possibilities given by the Rules of Procedure of the House, and now I will explain to you why. The Socialist Parliamentary Group registered a bill to amend an article in the transparency law to oblige public administrations to publish statistics and other data in relation to public contracts they held with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Well, since it was a single article and it was a very decaffeinated thing, it was decided that it would be passed on to the Commission with full legislative competence, that is, that it did not have to go back to this plenary for approval. In considering the proposal for a law, which is the only debate we have had, we referred to what was the amendment of that article of the law on transparency and they already warned that it was not much use to publish statistics because what small and medium-sized enterprises needed - as we had urged and did not listen to us - was a real plan that would avoid the late payment of public contracts by public administrations, which is the most late we have in Spain, public administrations, and with a sanctioning regime, in such a way that the administration would be punished for failing to comply with that plan that would avoid the late payment of public contracts. [[Applauds]] Well, we abstained and passed on to the Commission, the deadline for amendments was opened and the Socialist Group is presenting us with an amendment - for an idea to be made, the proposal for a law was a leaf and a half - of nine sheets of amendment of a tax figure, the tax on fluorinated gases, which is actually creating a new tax, because the amendment is such a large one - modifies essential elements such as the tax fact, among other issues - which is actually repealing the previous regulation of the previous tax and creating a completely new tax figure. On the other hand, the Government of the nation was processing a bill that was identical to the amendment submitted and, instead of following the procedure, because they did not like the result of the public information, because they had the affected sectors confronted, they decided to sneak through the back door, by amendment in a single article bill proposal that will be seen in the Commission With full legislative competence, the creation of a tax figure, without economic memory, without reporting any kind of social impact or other order, without the result of the previous information to which the bill had already been submitted in its process, that is, shame. It is an outrage, they are stealing, as I said at the beginning, the debate in this Parliament. The legislative presentation was immediately constituted. The first thing the PSOE representative said was: let's vote. It was voted and it is clear, with the majority of Frankenstein, that the amendment is approved, incorporated into the rapporteur's report, and quickly and nightly we are called to the Commission for the amendments which had remained alive, after a long plenary session, after nine o'clock in the evening. We were asked to be brief in the speeches - of course, it was already more than nine o'clock in the evening - when we had requested that it be suspended and called for another day, but there, quickly, in a flat fold, the bill was passed and its passage into the Senate. In the Senate, the Socialists have had the bad luck that two amendments have been adopted, and that is why it is coming today, because today we must introduce these two amendments so that the law can be sanctioned and enacted. In other words, a tax figure is created without debate in this Parliament. We have not been able to discuss the substance, we have not been able to amend the substance of the tax figure in this Parliament, and this leads us once again to reaffirm that VOX is right when he says that we are faced with an autonomous regime, on whose front there is a genuine autocrat, because in his eagerness to co-opt all the institutions, he is already laughing at the separation of powers, and this is another test. [[applause]] Then the Presidency will say that we withdraw from the Journal of Sessions that it is an autarchy and that at the head of it there is a genuine autocrat. I hope that the same measuring rod will be used when we are called fascists, sexists, racists, xenophobics, because it offends us. It offends me, because I do not consider myself a fascist, a sexist, a xenophobic or a homophobic. [[Applauds]] And as I am offended, and as it goes beyond what should be a rational criterion of freedom of expression in this House, if it is decided to remove from the Journal of Sessions that the President is an autocrat, that every time he qualifies us as fascists, sexists, racist homophobes, etc., he also removes himself from the Journal of Sessions, because the offence is the same. And if not, it will be credited that from this institution, unfortunately, one collaborates with the autarchy. We already saw it in its day two years ago when this Parliament was closed, a measure which was very criticized and annulled by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the floor.-Applause in the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u168	Thank you very much, Mr Del Valle. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that there can be no manifestation or expression from the rostrums. No applause allowed. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Postigo Quintana has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u169	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today most of you are finally approving the new tax on the cold and heat of the Sánchez government; your next tax will be to breathe. Once again, we are witnessing impudent and disrespectful action by both the Government and the Socialist Group in this House, carried out with light and nightliness, and supported by their necessary government partners and collaborators. I'll explain myself. On 1 February this year, the Proposition for a Law amending Law 19/2013 of 9 December 2013 on transparency, access to public information and good governance - and I read it textually - was adopted at the plenary session of the Congress to expand information on the percentage of participation in contracts awarded by categories of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in each of the public sector contract procedures. This initiative was presented by the Socialist Group with this and only objective, adding a three-and-a-half-line paragraph in Article 8. On 1 February, a Member of the Socialist Group criticized my strangeness and surprise when I told him that what they were hiding behind all this, because we didn't think it was just to add a three-and-a-half-line paragraph, when it was also a law that the Socialist Group had voted against in 2013. Today we found that it was not going astray, because we already have a response to that surprise and surprise, because, look where, the tricks and trichinets used by this Government are shown once again. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, its way of proceeding and its lack of respect is overwhelming, it is a permanent and constant challenge to the democratic transparency of our country and, paradoxically, with a law that seeks to improve information, transparency and good governance. Do they not find it shameful to introduce new tax and tax measures on fluorinated greenhouse gases, already regulated by Law 16/2013, into a law on transparency, access to public information and good governance? It was clear what its objective was from the beginning: to avoid the necessary and mandatory procedures of consultation and to avoid discussions with all the industrial and service sectors concerned, using the law of information, transparency and good governance, which, as they already demonstrated with their vote against when it was approved, feel towards it the most absolute indifference and disinterest and, I would say more, even absolute contempt. This is a trap law, ladies and gentlemen. They would not dare that the title of the law be a modification of taxes on fluorinated gases in order not to alert the media, and with this to all Spaniards, of what they intended to do, that is to say, to raise taxes, ladies and gentlemen. We have the most opaque government of our democracy, and that is not what I say, as the Transparency and Good Government Council says when it reports that the Government has refused to facilitate access to the files requested by citizens over the past year on 1200 occasions. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, your idea of democratic quality and transparency leaves much to be desired with your legislative practices. This is a new tax that they want me to pass unnoticed and, therefore, they do it with subterfuges and through the back door. Seventeen national organizations in the industrial and service sectors directly affected by this abuse - which you have ignored and which represent 34,000 companies, 462,000 direct jobs and with a turnover of EUR 126 billion - have stated that the amendment of the law that you will adopt will be the only one in the European Union that will burden Community manufacture, imports and acquisitions. I take the opportunity to greet the representatives of the AFAR Association who are accompanying us today in the rostrum, representing 75% of the commercial cold manufacturers in Spain. [[Applauds]] Thank you for your presence, cordial greetings and welcome be you. This new tax in Spain will be the most burdensome in the European Union and will have great consequences: it will undermine the competitiveness of Spanish companies, increase inflation by the significant increase in all equipment and installations, stop the renovation of new installations, produce significant job losses and reduce aid for actions to improve the energy efficiency of housing. This new tax also complies with the recommendation of the Committee of Experts on Taxation, which states in its White Paper for the tax reform in Spain that the tax on fluorinated gases - abro quotes - does not comply in its design with the purpose of the tax, since the gases for which it is taxed are irreplaceable from a technological point of view and therefore directly constitute a tax on the activity of the sector. Finally, costs will be increased for the end user, who will have to pay up to 10% more in the air conditioning systems. It is clear, therefore, that by deceiving and telling all honourable Members that it was a mere addition of a paragraph to the transparency law, the Government has introduced with its amendment a real bill to reform the current tax on fluorinated gases, which conceals a new tax. Ladies and gentlemen, from 1 September, buying a refrigerator, air conditioning or charging the air conditioning of the car will cost us 10% more thanks to this new cold tax from Mr Sánchez's Government. For this reason, the People's Party voted against in the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism when the opinion of the presentation was adopted with the PSOE amendment, and also in the Senate to the final text, but we will support the amendments adopted in it, which are only a show of sanity button to minimize this stumbling block carried out by Mr Sánchez's government and the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, your concept of democratic quality and transparency has disappeared from your political behaviour and from your legislative practices. In the economic order this is, no more or less, a new tax on cold and heat in its permanent unbridled to collect more and more day.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u170	Mr. Postigo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u171	Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Postigo. For the Socialist Group, Mrs López Zamora has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u173	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know how difficult it is to access public procurement to a micro or small business? I can tell you that I do because I have 12 years of experience in a small business. I remember countless times going with very tight margins and still not getting the contract. Not getting it because a micro-enterprise does not have the payment facilities or the margins that a large company can have, so it is very difficult for them to compete on an equal footing. My group has tabled this proposal to amend the law because, with the simple amendment we propose, we open a window to the SMEs in our country. This change will be the first step in ensuring that, with this data, with these statistics carefully analysed, we can develop policies that benefit the recruitment of SMEs in the public sector. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what you are opposing today. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises play a key role in the growth and strengthening of the Spanish economy. In Spain, SMEs account for 99.8% of the total business fabric, so who do you represent here today with your votes against, ladies and gentlemen of the right? [[Applauds]] The Socialist Group is clear about this, we represent the SMEs in our country, and this amendment is another example. For us and for us, it is a priority that any initiative, any policy that improves competitiveness, directly caters to SMEs. In this regard, SME participation in public procurement procedures is essential for their economic activity. The data estimated for 2017 indicate that only 29% of public contracts awarded in Spain fell to SMEs; therefore, we consider it essential to measure the progress of SMEs, their access to and participation in public sector contracts in order, as I said earlier, to implement policies that benefit them. In the presentation of the Congress, in fact, we included a number of amendments tabled by my group to bring Spanish legislation into line with European legislation, which was one of the commitments to Europe. They were adopted by most of the groups in the paper and included in the text after their adoption. It has complied with all the processes, by the way, with zero amendments from the People's Party and zero amendments from VOX. [[Applauds]] What's wrong with them, don't they like transparency?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Don't you like working in early morning Spain?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Applauds]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I have to tell you that when your leader comes out on a show of maximum audience saying that children who no longer want no one can adopt them anymore the gays, that is to be homophobes. [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you were talking about transparency, perhaps transparency could explain it to us when your leader, the President of the People's Party Government, does the press briefings through a screen. [[Applauds]] As I was saying, this law now comes back with an amendment from the Senate so that the data will be published every six months, so we are debating it again here today. This is what we are talking about today's amendment for final approval, something as important as what I have referred to, but which he forgot to mention on the right. He focused again on his speech of destruction and forgot about the SMEs in our country. We meet again with the old People's Party. It gives the same thing who leads it, if Married, if Feijoo; it gives the same, they continue in their radicality. As a Spanish saying goes, it's the same dog, but with different necklaces. [[Applauds]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, they are making two new pitfalls by not supporting this law: first, to abandon the country's SMEs, and, secondly, to put a lock on the arrival of European funds for the recovery of our country's economy. They have an obsession with the arrival of funds in Spain; they have an obsession with the Spanish and Spanish going well, with the policies launched by this government, so much that they block the harmonization of Spanish legislation with the European one. Although they have devoted all their time to talking about other issues rather than about SMEs, the only thing this law does is to look for formulas that benefit SMEs and meet European commitments. Perhaps you by European commitments only understand the biggest cut in public spending in a single-step democracy: EUR 89 billion, while raising all sections of the IRPF and raising property tax. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, their cuts were brutal, affecting SMEs, businesses, the middle class and the working class of our country! Besides, they lied here again from the rostrum. No new tax is created, this tax was created by you in 2013, as you have said; it is only amended and harmonized with European legislation, with our European commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, with the boycott that you are making of Spain, which you are putting on record in Europe, citizens must ask themselves what face you can go on to represent us in Europe. What happens to them is that they know that in their years of government they had no influence in Europe and they can't bear that President Pedro Sánchez is leading European initiatives. I will tell you one thing to reflect on: with your attitude, you will never have influence in Europe, because in Europe you know that you are disloyal to your country. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] President Pedro Sánchez has worked hard for the arrival of European funds in Spain and I assure you that neither my group nor a majority responsible for this House will allow you to play with the bread of the Spanish and Spanish. They played with it during their years of government, we will even remember the famous lapsus - or not - of Cospedal: We have worked hard to plunder Spain forward. I assure you that neither my party nor the Spanish nor the Spanish will allow them to plunder Spain again. [[Applauds]] From moderation, dialogue and consensus, we will continue to work as hitherto, implementing measures that benefit all citizens and moving away from their radicality and boycott of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u174	Mrs. Lopez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u175	I'm on my way. Today, June 30, we commemorate the International Day of Parliamentarism. It is everyone's responsibility to bring proposals and strategies to continue building a strong and competitive country. Think and analyze where we're going. Today this law will be passed thanks to the responsibility of a progressive parliamentary majority. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u177	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the proposal for a comprehensive law on equal treatment and non-discrimination. Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u178	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I share a special day in my professional career because I started working in 2000 with the Gypsy Secretariat Foundation from the Department of Fair Equality on the standard we are working on today. We are working on the European Commission's Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Directive 2000/43 to ensure that there is adequate transposition within the three-year time frame set by the European Commission itself. On 30 December 2003, Law 62/2003 was published, a legislative pantomime to try to transpose on the last day of the term a law covering the fight against discrimination in Spain. That was the context we face and the lack of political will. But on the part of social organisations and various professional actors involved in tackling the fight against discrimination, what was done was to continue insisting that we actually achieve a good legal framework, a good transposition of that Directive 2000/43 to strengthen our anti-discrimination law framework. Because look, when we talk about the legal framework of anti-discrimination law, we have to know how to cover two areas: everything that constitutes a misdemeanour is regulated by our Penal Code, but everything that is not a crime could not be left in a legislative institution; ladies and gentlemen, it could not be left where nothing happens, and for that it is the law of equal treatment and non-discrimination. Besides, we're still working. I went back to the year 2000; then to the year 2003; then, in 2009, Pedro Zerolo organized a group of experts - in which I loved to participate - so that we could really address this law of equal treatment and non-discrimination. And look at the time when we are, it is time to have an equal treatment and non-discrimination law. Especially because international organizations have pulled our ears out. ECRI has heard us in its last two reports, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance; also the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination; and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time we took the fight against discrimination in our country seriously. Above all because we are not talking here about a question that we now want is a better framework and that is, it is because we have to address a reality that, on many occasions, we do not like to look at, on which I have always said that there is some social hypocrisy. We say that our State is tolerant, that in Spain we are diverse, that there really is a respect for diversity. I'd like you to look at those people who are just because they're black, because they're migrants, because they're LGTBI, because they're carrying a disability, or because of any other condition they're not accepted to do a job interview. It's just that they're not even seen if they're qualified for that job or not. They are not allowed access to a good or a service. Even, ladies and gentlemen, there have been cases where it has been said that it is better not to enter this particular population group into a pool because it could contaminate the water. It is impossible to integrate and be part of society if you want to rent and buy a house and simply because of what you are tell you that you prefer that there is not this type of neighborhood and that you better look for another place. It is impossible to be part of society if I am brought together in ghetto centres and not given the same equality of educational opportunities as the rest. This is the society that, on many occasions, we do not like to look at, but this is the society that must address a good law of equal treatment and non-discrimination. I am consistent with the fact that not all discriminatory behaviour is a crime, for that is the last ratio, which is criminal law. But, man, that discrimination in our society comes out for free seems like a legal aberration to me. It seems to me a social hypocrisy so great to think that we have solved this matter in our country when I have seen the everyday reality. Moreover, I do not say that I have seen it because yes, look at the Eurobarometers of discrimination in the European Union; look at the latest Eurobarometers we also have in the Spanish sphere with the studies of the Centre for Sociological Research; look at the table and you will see how there are certain groups of people who simply face these daily situations. It seems surreal to me that the gypsy women go to a supermarket and don't take the security guard off with that presumption that the gypsy women we steal. This is the reality addressed by the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act. Therefore, it is a pride for me to have participated from my activist side in 2000 and now to be curious, for things that have life, talking to you in this rostrum about this legislative process that we have tried to improve. We have tried to improve it because there are two muscles: the Commissioner's muscle for equal treatment and non-discrimination, which must in an independent way offer assistance to victims of discrimination - so Citizens are presenting amendments to ensure the greatest independence I would have liked them to be accepted - and, likewise, a sanctioning regime. To say that we must raise awareness seems very good to me; that we must educate, seems very good to me. Awareness-raising and education. But for that there is also the legislation and the corrective frameworks of those behaviors that must be repudiated by our society. And that is why the sanctioning framework of this legislation even I think should be improved, be more precise because, if not, from the legal point of view, if we have very vague ideas - any lawyer knows it - it is very difficult to apply them within the administrative sanctioning law. For this reason, in Citizens we made a proposal that was even more in line with the Catalan Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act, which was more precise and which we also support, but we also did not want to be accepted. I'm telling you, it's a day of celebration for me. It is a challenge that has been achieved, but above all, the challenge will be achieved if we assist the victims, if we raise awareness of all the key actors who need to implement this legislation, if we get this legislation to be implemented. I do not want a law protecting the rights of victims of discrimination that I believe will help to create a more cohesive and respectful society with the right to equality in a real way that remains on a wet paper, on an ideological issue, on a question of: this flag is mine. No, no, We have to demonstrate the political dimension on equality issues, and I will make myself available to follow up on the implementation of this legislation because I really want it for the future of the Spaniards, for my children and for all groups, because, moreover, this law is for those groups that are discriminated against alarmingly daily.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u179	Mrs. Giménez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u180	That is why we have to make this law come into effect and we can really commemorate it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u182	Thank you very much, President. It seems a joke of bad taste, the truth, after the Melilla massacre, but today we vote Senate amendments to the comprehensive law for equal treatment and non-discrimination. It's a joke of bad taste. First reflection, the rights violated in Melilla's genocidal massacre. First, violation of the right to life and the omission of the duty of relief. Second, violation of the right to physical integrity and ill-treatment of persons under police custody. Third, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, reflected in the conditions of overcrowding of persons in custody. Fourth, excessive use of force by security bodies. Fifth, violation of the principle of return. Sixth, violation of the right to seek asylum. Seventh, violation of the right to effective and timely investigation of human rights abuses. They're burying people killed in Melilla in mass graves, without autopsy, trying to hide them. Eighth, violation of the right to personal liberty. Eye!, the violation of this right is now happening at the CETI in Melilla. People who have managed to survive in the Melilla massacre are there illegally detained, illegally detained!, I do not say this - which also - Amnesty International says in a letter that yesterday sent to the President of the Government Pedro Sánchez. All those violations that I have just said link with my second reflection on this law. The defence and guarantee of the rights of migrants - all, without exception, all! - is one of the main areas of parliamentary work of my parliamentary group and, of course, my own, as many of you know. [[Applauds]] That is why we denounce that many amendments to this comprehensive law on equal treatment and non-discrimination have been rejected. That is why we again denounce that they have been rejected and give an example. There is an additional fourth provision in this Act which provides that all the laws of this Act do not conflict with the Aliens Act. Therefore, this law does not protect persons in an irregular administrative situation, refugees with the requested request for international protection denied. Is this law comprehensive, ladies and gentlemen? Let's think about it. In other words, the law that supposedly addresses and eradicates inequalities between citizens excludes the migrant population in an irregular situation. Always, the last of the last of the last, the migrant population. It's a terrible institutional racism; who doesn't see it is that it's blind. On the other hand, it should be noted that the current legislation on migration is a root problem of this Spanish State and is the basis of many of the main challenges of society, such as trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation, access to housing and access to social security. In conclusion, it is important to note that various parliamentary groups, including the Republican Left, have called for the deletion of this additional fourth provision so that all citizens in general - all, broad concept of citizenship -, regardless of their administrative status, can enjoy legislative protection and social protection. [[Applauds]] However, the PSOE has not wanted, as long as they deploy all the speeches and resources in the hands of the State to welcome the white citizenship of Ukraine. It's the color of the skin, ladies and gentlemen, it's the color of the skin! Skin color, because there are black and racialized people; it's skin color; yes, it's skin color! [[Applauds]] A lot of law, but it doesn't serve to protect all people who really need it. Racism! Third and final reflection, before saying that black lives matter; migrant lives matter; gypsy lives, obviously, matter. It's very complicated what I'm going to say now, I do it out of dignity; moreover, it's hard for me to say. I say it for dignity, for honesty. I've been doing the text here, removing a lot of what I was going to say, but I'm going to say it, trying to be consistent with my way of being, with my way of understanding life as well, the world, and of course also the institutional policy, which I recently joined. I can't stop explaining what happened. Although sometimes in the parliamentary world the silences are better than the words, there are so loud silences that they often hurt, it is one of the things that some of us have done in recent weeks in the face of the Socialist Party's attempt to appropriate parliamentary initiatives that only half an hour before their vote only contemplated rejection and not approval. I am referring at this time to the reform of the Criminal Code to amend paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 510 of the Criminal Code, which finally includes, at last!, anti-Gyptanism as a hate crime. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, make it clear. [[Mrs. Carrillo de los Reyes: What a shame!]] No, little shame no, we're all here as witnesses.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u183	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u184	Out of respect and consideration for the gypsy people and for not harming their interests, this Member and my parliamentary group have kept quiet, quiet, but the time has come to say enough to continue trying to distort the truth. [[Mrs. Carrillo de los Reyes: Very little shame!]] And the truth is that the PSOE has put too many, too many obstacles to what we approve today: anti-Gyptanism as a crime in the Penal Code! The truth is that the PSOE has put a lot of obstacles! [[Applauds]] And it tastes very bad, it tastes very bad!, very bad! Just before the vote in the Commission, the PSOE agreed to deal in extremes two amendments and I know this very badly, very badly! This is the truth and we really owe it. Very bad knows me, very bad.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u185	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u186	I ended by saying that my parliamentary group is very pleased that anti-Gyptanism is adopted within the Criminal Code. Surviving is not a crime. Long live the migrant struggle! Regularization now! Truth, justice and reparation and guarantees of non-repetition for the Melilla massacre. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u188	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Debate for its consideration on 16 February 2021, a year and a half later, following a process of negotiation of deep work between the different parliamentary groups and a genuine deliberative exercise in which this Member has personally learned a great deal, today we finally voted the comprehensive law on equal treatment and non-discrimination, a law that transposes into the legal system of the Spanish State a European regulatory system on non-discrimination that had not yet reached a legal conclusion in our country. I would like to highlight in this respect article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which corresponds precisely to article 14 of our Constitution, which guarantees the constitutional principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination, which determines the interpretation not only of fundamental rights, but of each and every one of the constitutional rights. At European level, the directives on equality in employment were adopted in 2000 which prohibited discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, religious beliefs, age and disability in the area of employment - but not everything is employment; from the capitalist anthropological conception it is said: without work there is no dignity; but dignity I must say that it is prior to work -; in that same year the well-known directive 2000/43 on racial equality was also adopted; and in 2004, the directive on equal treatment between men and women. And in the Spanish sphere I have to highlight as a precedent the well-known law on equal treatment between men and women of 2007, which already offered an integral conception of what equal treatment means not only - I insist - at work, but in all areas that affect citizens' lives. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states in its first article - and I must stress this - that 'all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights and, endowed with reason and conscience, must behave fraternally with one another'. Why am I saying this? Because although these three principles - equality, freedom and dignity - seem settled, we still have much left to make them effective in contemporary societies. And of them all, let me tell you that the principle of equality is the most important. Without equality there is no freedom, without equality there is no dignity. Not only in any legal-political community, but in any human community the principle of equality is the most basic. When one enters a community of human beings, the first thing he demands is: treat me just like the rest or, otherwise said, do not discriminate against me. However, as the Republican Group's partner pointed out, we have recently seen a comparative aggravation when we saw how human rights were violated, precisely because of the violation of the principle of equality and non-discrimination, at the border of Melilla. We have seen how people, who are ultimately equal in dignity, simply because they have a different national origin, have been treated differently when seeking asylum and refuge. Without equal treatment, as I said, there is no real respect for the equality of any human being, as Mrs Giménez also pointed out with regard to employment. The principle of equality goes beyond even economic equality. Those of us who work in the field of anti-discrimination law know that people with different social scales are affected when they want to enter a bar, when they want to enter a flat, when they want to enter another country, no matter how much money they actually have, simply because they have a different religion, a different culture or a different ethnicity, a different sexual orientation. That is why today I want to put this law into practice. This law is a step forward, but there are things to be done. Today we have to celebrate, but we also have to demand. As the Jewish philosopher Levinas said - and, by the way, the old friend Trotsky - the demand for democracy is permanent. The demand for justice is permanent. We cannot settle for the adoption of this law as it stands. Obviously, it is a satisfactory law, but we must continue to make progress in reforming the status of the victim, in reforming the regulation of emigrants, in reforming the Aliens Act. You have to keep fighting and never give up. I would also like to emphasise - for me in particular and for my parliamentary group - that the thrust of the Sub-Commission on a State Pact against Anti-Gypsyism has had a special significance and, in some way, time has wanted to run in parallel with this equal treatment and non-discrimination law. I would therefore like to point out that, thanks to an impetus for debate in the period of the motion - the amendments, as has been mentioned here, of the Citizens' Group and of the United Nations We can be accepted in a compromise by the Socialist Group and voted in favour of all the parliamentary groups, to which I am grateful, except VOX, who abstained - the Penal Code was amended to include anti-Gyptanism as a hate crime in 510 and also in 22.4 as an aggravating offence. This Member simply wishes to thank us for the moment we have been living with the adoption of this law, which many of us have hoped for since 2000 at European level, and to remind you that democracy is a permanent, constant exercise and that we can never be completely satisfied with what we have adopted in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Cortés. Mrs Méndez Monastery has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u190	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments that come from the Senate do not improve the text of the law because they cannot improve it, because the spirit that inspires it remains intact, as well as the attacks on the principles of legal certainty and proportionality and on fundamental rights, in particular on the fundamental right to freedom of expression and the freedom of parents to educate their children according to their convictions, remain intact. In addition, it even attacks private property. [[Applauds]] That this law pursues equality and non-discrimination is simply a lie, ladies and gentlemen. It is a lie, it is a farce, because it is already regulated in the different areas with multiple regulations; even anti-Gyptanism is regulated in the Penal Code. This law is an instrument for a cultural change that they are propitiating against the reality of things and the very being of man, which is impossible to achieve through reason and is imposed by force. They will sanction those who disagree with official thinking, be called gender ideology, Agenda 2030, discard culture, climate change or historical memory. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, an agency is created, the independent authority - it is the ministry of truth of Orwell - and a sanctioning regime of up to 500,000 euros is established. It is a punitive law - in many cases it imposes harsher sanctions than those of the Criminal Code - and lacks the necessary objectivity in the criminalization of offences. With the simple threat of imposing these sanctions, it will deter anyone who wants to give a different opinion - whether it be a journalist, a teacher or a film director - by directly attacking freedom of thought, and will create a truly suffocating climate. We ask ourselves several questions. How is it possible that they are defending non-discrimination while passing a law like this, which produces scandalous inequality? Equal treatment and non-discrimination laws of the Autonomous Communities or LGTBI, as they are also called, have the same purpose, which is not the fight against discrimination, but the imposition of an anti-scientific ideology, where the will or desire is the determinant of sex. In a society as relativistic as this, where, unfortunately, the total absence of certainties prevails, wanting to sow doubt about one's own sex from young is, simply, perverse. [[Applauds]] There is a law right now in the Galician community that has passed the law on gender ideology as a subject. Well, all of these laws have a different sanctioning regime and very seriously violate the principle of equality. They are laws which, both for the matter and for the sanctioning regime, should be subordinated to this national; however, it is this one which is envisaged as a subsidiary to those of the autonomous communities. An example, ladies and gentlemen: a conduct of harassment of a person on grounds of sexual orientation that is not considered an offence is classified as very serious and in each of the autonomous communities there will be a different sanction. In one autonomous community the penalty will be up to EUR 6000; in others it will be up to EUR 30 000; in others it will be up to EUR 40 000; in others it will be up to EUR 45 000; in others it will be up to EUR 300 000; in Catalonia it will be up to EUR 500 000, and with this law it will be EUR 500 000. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an exercise in scandalous cynicism. This law adds language as a cause of discrimination. How do you explain that in Baleares, with the Socialist president, more than 3000 cellers who were during the pandemic were expelled from the call for interims because they did not present the certificate that accredits the knowledge of the Catalan language? How do you explain, ladies and gentlemen, if this law defends that no one can be excluded from health care, that palliative care can be refused throughout the national territory and only half the population can benefit? How is it possible that there are crimes where people with sex are punished more? How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that you are defending equality? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Let's go to what this law collects, which collects pearls like the following. Article 4 is offensive to women. They assume that in Spain being a woman is an obstacle to access to education, employment, health and justice, ladies and gentlemen, when in Spain 60% of judges are judges. It is not an obstacle to access to justice when 60% of those who pass judgements are women. Are you in full judgment when you affirm this? However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not an obstacle to being a minister; in some cases the only merit is that. [[Laughter and applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law also attacks concerted schools, which will not be subsidized unless they assume gender identity or expression. It will be a problem on sports issues with the issue of gender identity. In addition, they introduce asphyxiating interventionism. How is it possible that a tenant cannot rent his house to whom he considers it appropriate? It is an attack on private property owned by communist regimes. This is your equality law. Ladies and gentlemen, the totalitarian states - what they want to turn into ours - also come from democratic regimes, and we already have evidence in recent history of Europe. By attacking fundamental rights, you avoid reports where this could be confirmed; you did so with the law of euthanasia and you are doing so with those who have biases of unconstitutionality. Do you know the way? The path is the easiest: with a proposal of law, without any report and avoiding public information. They will avoid the reports, ladies and gentlemen, but they cannot avoid VOX, which will be those who denounce and those who remember them - and those who will also appeal these laws - who are violating fundamental rights. That is why, even if they attack the institutions by appointing the members of the Constitutional Court that suit them so that when the Spaniards send them out of the Government there will remain a Constitutional Court in line with their postulates, it will not matter as long as VOX exists. That is why the existence of VOX is so necessary, because it is the only parliamentary group that opposes and resists the cultural battle they are waging, the only one that defends the human rights that every State must recognize because they are pre-existing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is not the economy, it is not just the economy. The left is delighted to hear it because it trusts them in their cultural change, but, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it is not only the economy. If values are not recognized, if what is true and what is good is not recognized, how will the economy know how to recognize what is useful? [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. I end up talking about equality. VOX defends the equality of all Spaniards, who do not differ because of their sexual orientation. All equal under the same flag: the flag of Spain. [[One Member: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Mendez. Mrs Pérez Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u192	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today it concludes its proceedings, as has already been said here, the proposal for a comprehensive law on equal treatment and non-discrimination, a proposal for a law that has had a long history of various legislatures and whose philosophy we have shared since the beginning, aware that there are many areas in which discrimination occurs and that measures must be deployed to combat it and aware also of the need to have cross-border anti-discrimination legislation in our country. But we're not worth any text. From the People's Party, we have opted for a rigorous text combining policies against discrimination with legal certainty and the individual freedom of citizens. To that end, we have been working for more than a year in both Houses, presenting more than sixty amendments both in this House and in the Senate, of which we have hardly been accepted, which shows that they have made no effort at all to value and respect them. Pure roller, ladies and gentlemen. And if it were not serious enough to apply the roll to the proposals of the main opposition group, which is becoming a bad or very bad practice, not to say a form of governance of some pride, the Socialist Group, its governmental partners and the parliamentary groups supporting them have, since their handling, been able to make worse a normative text that already suffers from legal rigour in part of its content and does not bring improvements in the care and intervention of the victims. It regulates the creation of a new body, the independent authority for equal treatment and non-discrimination. Do you really think it is a good time to create a new body when we are immersed in a serious economic crisis, with problems as acute as the 13 million Spaniards at risk of poverty, the three and a half million workers who do not arrive at the end of the month, inflation as a tidal wave, the prices of gas and light unobstructed and the majority of households with serious difficulties in filling the shopping basket? Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither the time to waste resources creating a new administrative structure, when we also have the most expensive government of democracy, nor will we do our job as legislators or democrats if we do not respect the legal order and the separation of powers. But there's nothing left here. What about, for example, measures in the field of education, where they have incorporated in the Senate an amendment on what will be understood as school segregation? Ladies and gentlemen, they insist on violating the freedom of education enshrined in Article 27 of the Spanish Constitution, and it will not be because we did not warn them in the process of amendments, in the paper, and we have also insisted on them in the Senate. Rather, it seems that the promoters of this amendment also seek to circumvent the Constitutional Court's ruling of April 2018, according to which differentiated education centres are not a cause of discrimination, but are part of the centre's right to establish its idea and, therefore, part of the freedom of education. Moreover, the judgement also makes it clear that the differentiated education system is a pedagogical option that cannot be understood as discriminatory. But you, in a bra and not a patch, give absolutely the same. [[Applauds]] I confess that it is disappointing to find a rule that has not only refused to improve in the Senate, but will create problems rather than provide solutions, which is what we are here for. We deeply regret that this was a missed opportunity, given that we have not found the necessary responsiveness to the agreement in such important areas as education, housing, the provision of social services, the administration of justice and artificial intelligence, among others. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, since the first day we have worked with the conviction that agreement, consensus, was possible and not only possible, but necessary in such an important law for our society, but clearly we have not succeeded. Once again, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, they have preferred to swallow the frog and swallow the proposals of the groups that keep them in the government to agree on the reasonable proposals that are in line with the legality of the People's Party, even, as I have already said, at the cost of bringing forward a text of lower technical and regulatory quality. I conclude by reiterating that, by sharing our group's need for legislation to protect the most vulnerable from any discrimination, despite this, we cannot support this text, which, because of its importance, because of its overrelevance and because it affects the fundamental rights of people, should have been a text that was the result of agreement and consensus, also with the People's Party. But fundamentally we cannot support it because we understand that it not only suffers from legal rigour, but could involve, among other things, the violation of essential principles of our legal system, such as the separation of powers, individual freedom and the presumption of innocence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mrs Carrillo de los Reyes has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a great day for equality. Today we are finally taking a final step in this House towards the adoption of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act after ten years, ladies and gentlemen. We must all congratulate ourselves because we are taking forward one of the most necessary and just laws, which will mark a new horizon in the democratic history of our country. [[Applauds]] My appreciation to all the activist forces, to all the social organizations that are here today and to those that are outside, that have fought, because you represent the heart and soul of this law and we have finally culminated in this exciting and arduous way to make this dream a real reality. Allow me also to thank all the political forces that have worked side by side to advance this law, but especially I wanted to thank my partner Adriana Lastra for her determined and courageous bet with this law and also my colleagues Susana and Lazarus. Four hundred amendments have been worked on. Indeed, the inclusion in the Penal Code is presented by the Socialist Party in a transactional; without the Socialist Party, anti-Gyptanism would not have been included in the Penal Code. [[Applauds]] Despite its weight, the Socialist Party has always been the party that has drawn all the plans and all the laws in favor of the Gypsy people. Is that enough? No, we have to keep fighting. With this debate we have also achieved something just and necessary: to blow up the wounds of that part of society that has remained buried and hidden, and now we are going to fight and repair it with this powerful instrument. And it is no coincidence that this regulation is known as the Zero Law, in memory and honor of its driving force, which fought tirelessly to expand rights and freedoms in our country, as it is also not by chance, ladies and gentlemen, that we hold this vote in the week of the Pride, where one more year we go out to the streets and squares of our country with the flag of the rainbow, symbol of struggle, of resistance and of freedom. [[applause]] My gratitude goes to all the people who have suffered and still suffer from hatred and social rejection, as well as to all the non-conformists who do not wrinkle, who do not please those who pretend to silence our voices to return us to the cages of prejudice and to the Francoist wardrobe. To all of them I say: Long live pride and live freedom! [[Applauds]] With this law we endorse, ladies and gentlemen, our commitment, the commitment of this Government, to the defence of the right to equality and the dignity of individuals. Look at the cluster of calamities that we are experiencing in recent years, starting with the war at the gates of Europe and the harmful consequences on the economy - it seems that we forget the images of the people who have died from this damn war - as well as our horror and our indignation at the images we have seen in the Melilla fences - my strength and my affection to all the family members - without stopping talking about all that part of humanity that has taken this pandemic. All this worries us and makes us think that the balance between the world powers is being broken, that they even mutilate women's rights, as is happening in the United States, putting us in serious danger, forgetting that the force of feminism has been built upon the sacrifices of the great fighters who have made to continue advancing in equality and social justice. [[Applauds]] All this represents, ladies and gentlemen, the need to strengthen institutions such as the United Nations or NATO, because certainly, ladies and gentlemen, there are democracies in our environments that are becoming paper. And now, in such virulent times, it is when it is shown who we are next to those who need it most. It is in these times that the sensitivity of the political forces representing society in this House, which is popular sovereignty, has to be felt. I have been a passionate defender of equality since I was a child, opening one after another the doors that have closed to mine, as to other collectives and as to other minorities, and fighting alongside also Pedro Zerolo, because, precisely, all these people come to represent this law. In this society, where we have sometimes been victims of a lack of ethical and moral values, we have for many years been attentive to responding more to the needs of the economic powers, which never face the face, which never submit to the vote of the people, but which are always there, handling the threads of the destiny of our society and perpetuating, precisely, the gap of inequality and discrimination in this country, forgetting, in short, that we are all human beings and that no one in their homes and families is alien to discrimination and injustice. Because power is not in the big corporations, ladies and gentlemen; power is in the people and in each of the social and collective groups that struggle day by day to make democracy effective. It is they and they who are closest to the spirit and principles emanating from the Spanish Constitution, and they have no doubt that the victory of this particular battle lies with all democrats, especially all those to whom this law represents, because they have had to fight double and triple to defend their rights. At this point, I would like to address the political forces who, on the basis of short-range pilgrim arguments, do not support a legislative initiative like this. To oppose this law is to contribute to the deterioration of our country's coexistence. Those who oppose are not true patriots because they weaken democracy and foster a Spain of trenches and a Spain of division. There are things a Democrat has to stand for by definition, regardless of political ideals, because there are issues that are about social justice, which is to believe in a stronger, more just and more supportive society. We do want to build an egalitarian Spain and against hatred, not a step back; against those who divide, not a step back. In this country we cannot move forward by leaving half of society behind. Members of the People's Party, you have a brilliant opportunity to demonstrate which part of the story you are from. Do you want to be moderate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Vote in favour. Do you want to compete with the ultra-right and be your accomplices? Vote against. [[Applauds]] But I'm going to tell you one thing...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u195	Mrs. Carrillo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u196	I'm on my way, President. ... Whatever the case, the left-wing forces of this House are once again called upon to set an example that we are the true engine of our society and guarantors of the spirit of our Constitution and of our democracy. Discrimination won't come free anymore. Thank you, Pedro. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carrillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u198	We move on to the agenda item on the proposal from the Committee on Industry, Trade and Tourism for the creation of a subcommittee on the deployment and installation of electricity and hydrogen charging infrastructures and their impact on the car industry in Spain. This proposal is submitted to the plenary without any previous debate. The vote on this item will take place together with the rest of the votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u199	We turn to the agenda item on the proposals for the House Plenary's avocation of the deliberation and final vote of the Sustainable Fisheries and Fisheries Research Bill, the Draft Law on Institutionalization of the Evaluation of Public Policy in the General Administration of the State and the Draft Law regulating customer service services. These proposals will be put to the vote together with the other matters at the end of this meeting. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL ROOM, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION: - Urgent membership of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Transition and the Democratic Challenge to the Full Chamber, requested by Mrs GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO and 85 others, to inform about the state of work, so far from the technical point of view as from the negotiation with the European Commission and the entry-in-force period, of the Iberian proposal to fix a stop at the price of the gas and to support the ENERGY EXCEPTION OF THE ENERGY ISLAND OF THE IBERIAN PENINSULA. [[File number 210/000097]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u200	We continue with the last item on the agenda, concerning the appearance of the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge before the plenary of the House, requested by Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo and another eighty-five Members, to report on the status of the work, both from the technical point of view and from the negotiation with the European Commission and the deadline for the entry into force of the Iberian proposal, to set a ceiling on the price of gas and to consolidate the energy exception or energy island of the Iberian peninsula. I give the floor to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u201	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this invitation to appear. I am addressing this House today to share with you information on the implementation of the so-called Iberian mechanism and its results, as well as to report on the measures taken by the Government in the field of energy with a view to minimizing the economic consequences of the current crisis and equitably sharing the economic impacts of the Russian war on energy. As you know, for the past year we have been experiencing a sharp increase in the price of electricity in the wholesale market, which has an important impact on the rest of the economy. It is a price increase that is not due either to changes in supply or to changes in demand, or even to changes in the relative cost of most of the technologies used to generate electricity; it is solely due to the contagion effect of the gas price increase on the price of electricity as a result of Europe's regulatory design in this area. Therefore, from the very beginning - for many months now, in fact a year ago - Spain has been pointing out that the magnitude of this crisis required urgent, joint and coordinated action by the countries of the European Union. It is an approach that, months later, was endorsed by European leaders at the European Council on 24 and 25 March. We have worked on a proposal that has finally been recognised by what is commonly called the Iberian exception in the colloquial nature, justified in the very low interconnection of the Peninsula with the rest of the continent, which limits competition on the market and hinders the plurality of prices for consumers. It is an interconnection close to 2.8%, which prevents us from enjoying the advantages and benefits of the internal electricity market in an equivalent way as the rest of the Europeans do, with the exception of Cyprus. In reality, there is practically no other good or service occurring in any Member State of the European Union which has a physical limitation of these characteristics in order to participate in the benefits of the internal market. Consequently, the possibility of adopting a temporary measure of 12 months' duration, which limits the impact that the rise in natural gas prices is having on the wholesale electricity market in Spain and Portugal, was supported. I will summarise very quickly what the measure consists of. Essentially, it consists in the introduction of a limit to the price at which gas plants are offered for electricity generation. After the sale on the market, the system prorates the cost of the adjustment to compensate for the actual cost of gas among the benefitted consumers and the most immediate effect is that the only electricity paid at the cost of gas is electricity generated by gas. Let us, therefore, immediately mitigate the undesirable contagion effect on the rest of the technologies and reduce in a very important way what is known as the fallen benefits of the sky for the rest of the technologies. The mechanism, after weeks of rigorous work and negotiation with Portugal and the Commission, came into force on 15 June and let me tell you that it did so under particularly adverse conditions: with an intense heat wave, with unorbited gas prices following Gazprom's 40 % gas supply announcement to Europe and a major incident on the main liquefactory plant on the west coast of the United States, from where most of the liquefied natural gas comes out to Europe, and with a very low generation of our renewable plants as a result of the lack of wind resources in full anti-cyclone and the impact of heat on the performance of photovoltaic energy. However, despite these adverse conditions, the wholesale market prices and the final prices after adjustment were those days below those we would have had in the absence of the mechanism and below those of comparable European Union partners. The average price of the daily market, together with the cost of the adjustment, compared with the price during these first days of application, is above 14 % below the price we would have had in the absence of the measure. In fact, if we compare ourselves during these days with other countries, we will see that the first half of June, from 1 to 14, the price in the wholesale market in Spain remained in the middle of the average of countries such as France, Italy or Germany. However, from the 15th of June everything changes. We have gone from having similar prices in Spain, with and without the adjustment cost, to having significantly lower prices day by day to day to the rest of the Member States, to the point where during the second half of June, on average, with the application of the mechanism, the price on the wholesale market without adjustment has been between 45 and 55 % lower than the price in Germany, France or Italy. I would say that the Iberian exception, even in the first two weeks, has proved to be effective in at least reducing wholesale market prices and the extraordinary benefits of companies, protecting consumers, reducing the electricity bill and enabling a practical test that can be applied in the rest of Europe in situations of stress such as the current ones to decouple the electricity market from high gas prices. These are positive results. Today prices in Europe have also been much higher than ours: in France, 362 euros per megawatt hour; in Italy, 364; in Germany, 323. In Spain, adding to the wholesale price the cost of adjustment, 193. That is to say, Spain today obtains price differences in the environment of 130 to 170 euros the megawatt hour with the majority of European countries in the wholesale market and a very important difference after applying the adjustment. These results automatically translate into consumer protection. In just 15 days, the mechanism has managed to reduce the extraordinary benefits of electricity companies to the benefit of all consumers by around EUR 250 million. And, which is also very important, the effect is also transferred to the estimate of electricity prices for the coming quarters, resulting in very significant differences between countries. I give you a data: for the fourth quarter of the year the analysts predict that the price in Spain is 149 euros the megawatt hour; in Germany, 343 euros the megawatt hour, and in France, given the terrible situation of its nuclear park, 723 euros the megawatt hour. In other words, these future price estimates demonstrate, confirm the confidence of analysts in the proper functioning of the Iberian mechanism. But if we add to the implementation of the Iberian mechanism all the measures that the Government has been taking - the tax reduction, the reduction of charges, the reduction of the extraordinary profits associated with the price of gas and the invoices of households hosted at the PVPC rate - they are almost 30% cheaper than they would have been without them. On the other hand, I would like to stress that this mechanism can, as I said earlier, be a good starting point to inspire solutions at European level; in principle, to respond with extraordinary proposals to extraordinary situations, but also to open up a debate on how to develop price regulation in the wholesale market in a way that is effective and that makes the electrification we need attractive. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the energy context in which I appear before you is extraordinary, complex and - I would add - worrying too, is worrying in the short term. Therefore, having a committed, hard-working and solidarity-priority government is crucial; having a Parliament that supports this approach is also crucial. This is undoubtedly one of the most important issues of European policy at this time; indeed, my appearance coincides, at a particularly interesting time, with the satisfaction of being able to convey to all of you the progress that the European Union has made this week in reaching a political agreement in the Energy Council and in the Environment Council on the Fit For 55 package, the objectives of increasing ambition in reducing emissions and transforming our energy system for the whole continent, progress on the basis of a political agreement on the whole package. The objective was to reduce EU emissions by 55% by 2030. In particular, we have achieved a policy orientation on renewable energy and energy efficiency directives, so as to speed up the transition by raising the renewable energy target to 40% by 2030; extending the emissions trading regime to maritime and land transport and construction; setting zero emissions targets for new vehicles registered from 2035 onwards, or creating a new social climate fund, which will provide strong coverage for vulnerable households, SMEs and transport users in rural and remote areas without access to public transport, because a transformation like this is not just protesting, it is done above all by ensuring fairness in the measures we take, ensuring that the distributive impacts of their implementation do not generate more differences, but on the contrary. We also devote a very large part of the Energy Council meeting to discussing Europe's concerted and effective responses following the adoption of the sixth sanctions package to Russia and the imperative need to agree and strengthen national contingency plans, including, where appropriate, the need to strengthen savings and efficiency policies or even to raise the most appropriate responses to the hypothetical case where it is essential to prioritize the availability of energy resources among consumers. The situation is not easy. Let me remind you of some data. In recent weeks the flow of Russian gas through Nord Stream has been reduced by around 70 %, increasing the price of gas in the Dutch reference market from EUR 80 megawatt hour to EUR 130 megawatt hour, i.e. an increase of more than 60 % in a few weeks. On 8 June, the liquefaction plant on the east coast of the United States, the main port of origin of liquefied natural gas destined for Europe, suffered an incident that has left a drop in the export capacity of 60 million cubic meters per day for three weeks. These are tensions that, despite Europe's coordinated response, can continue to increase, are tensions that have to cause us to reflect on the need to be prepared, as indicated by the International Energy Agency or the European Commission, for the alleged total cut in Russian gas supply, a threat of cuts that has materialized with cuts in supply to Poland, Bulgaria, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark..., following the refusal of its operators to accept the payment system imposed by Putin in rubles of the supply contracts signed in order not to violate the sanctions established by the European Union. This risk explains why eleven European Union countries have already activated an early warning level as a result of a potential Russian gas cut; explains why Germany, for the first time in its history and given the possibility that Russia could cut gas supply from one day to the next, has activated the state of alert prior to the emergency situation envisaged by the current European Union Supply Safety Regulation; explains why the three delegated advisors of the three largest French energy companies have publicly asked all citizens to maximize their energy savings efforts from now on. In this scenario, Spain, although better prepared, cannot neglect either its domestic response or its European commitment, so we work to ensure that this hypothesis never materializes. But we know that we must also promote measures of diversification of suppliers, of impulse to renewables and biogas, policies of savings and efficiency, electrification, deployment of small installations, sum of measures that can become decisive in the coming autumn, in the coming winter. In the contingency plans of all Member States it will be essential to prioritise savings and to establish the criteria to be applied in the hypothetical event that the situation becomes more complicated. At the outset, in our country we have wanted to promote savings measures in the field of the General Administration of the State that strengthen public transport, remote work, measures of efficiency in the air conditioning and lighting of buildings and outdoors or self-consumption, and in the coming weeks the European Commission will present specific recommendations on this for all the Member States of the European Union. There is no doubt that Europe has opted for the change of energy model and the fight against climate change as essential policies for its security, for economic modernisation and for social construction and for the European project, clearly reinforced reasons in view of the virulence of the impact that recent developments in international commodity markets are having on energy prices. Let us think that in one year the price of gas has multiplied by six, that of the barrel of oil has increased by 74% and that of coal has tripled, an increase in prices involving various factors: the growing mismatch between supply and demand as a result of investment in new energy less than we need, a fall in investment in fossil fuel farms, an increase in the overall demand for energy higher than expected as a result of economic reactivations at the end of the pandemic, factors which are inexhaustibly and dramatically compounded by the instability caused by Russia since the summer of 2021 with regard to gas supplies to Europe and the tension resulting from the invasion of Ukraine, an aggressive strategy by Russia, qualified by many as an energy blackmail, which seeks to weaken the domestic economies and the European productive fabric, to double the rejection of civil society to this war or to reduce the margin of manoeuvre of the European institutions and governments of the Member States in adopting measures and sanctions to resolve this matter as soon as possible. It is an intentional and articulated action around the management of natural gas storage in Gazprom, in historical minimums for a year, 70% of the usual, as confirmed by the Bruegel Institute. The reduction or interruption of the flow of natural gas to Europe since September 2021 shows that, although we have opened decades, we use ancient war techniques, with a different face. But the very high European dependence on Russian energy raw materials becomes an element of risk for destabilisation, which has effects beyond the European continent. That is why Europe's united, solidarity-based, flexible and coherent response is fundamental, fundamental in Europe and would also be fundamental in each of the European Member States. What is at stake are the principles and values on which the European integration project is founded: respect for national sovereignty, fundamental rights and individual freedoms, universal access to basic necessities as energy products, including food, the strong European commitment to combating climate change, which implies the progressive abandonment of fossil fuels so as not to incur more suffering, more costs, more inequality, more catastrophe, and our responsibility to third parties as protagonists in building relations of peace and prosperity. [[The Lord]] These are principles that are not negotiated, that are not doubled. The response given by society and the European institutions has therefore focused on the establishment of trade and financial sanctions on the Putin regime and on the rapid reduction of our dependence on Russian fuels. Ultimately, this crisis has highlighted the vulnerability and the climate, social, economic and strategic risks associated with an energy model based on fossil fuels in terms of security of supply, autonomy, stability and affordability of energy prices. That is why, from the outset, we have understood that it is essential to promote united European action, a coordinated response at European level, in order to tackle this situation. And this has been the approach with which the Government has been working from the outset with initiatives and proposals that we are proud of and which today are widely reflected in the measures proposed by the Commission and which are endorsed by the vast majority of Member States. These are proposals and responses that have made it possible to strengthen close coordination between Member States and with third countries, necessary to address this crisis. They have made it possible to drastically reduce Russia's dependence in the very short term and on fossil fuels on the strategic horizon, which we need to achieve as soon as possible. Therefore, more than ever, in these circumstances, I ask you for a sense of state; a sense of state to protect vulnerable consumers, middle classes and productive sectors; a sense of state to share efforts equitably; a sense of state to anticipate and accelerate the energy transition by adequately addressing the root causes and using our efforts and resources from the recovery plan in the early deployment of a new clean, efficient, price-stable, predictable and affordable energy system. If the energy transition for climate reasons was urgent before, today it is even more urgent for economic and social justice reasons. Fortunately, in Spain we have encountered a good part of the advanced duties. We had worked on the diagnosis, the identification of opportunities, the identification of difficulties, the construction of an agenda, the promotion of industrial and social capacities. Our response is clear and committed: in the short term, ensuring effective and immediate measures to alleviate the impacts of energy prices and strengthen existing supply security thanks to the great diversity of suppliers, our infrastructures and the need to increase the momentum of electrification, efficiency and savings; in the medium term, accelerating the implementation of structural and shutdown measures that allow us to promote the agility of the transition by generalizing renewable solutions already known in the solar and wind fields on different scales, with the maximum participation of citizens and small developers, promoting savings generated by changes in our homes, in mobility and in industrial processes and, at the same time, facilitating the anticipated deployment of the most innovative solutions that will be key in the coming years, such as the storage of electricity, innovative renewables, such as offshore wind or floating photovoltaics, or renewable hydrogen. It is a deployment that requires regulatory frameworks and own or strengthened infrastructure to respond on the basis of a stable and permanent commitment by a government that takes all the measures it needs in the domestic sphere and contributes responsibly to shaping the most appropriate responses at European level. And let me insist on both dimensions. We do not live in a bubble, we have to work at national level, we have to work at European level; only by activating the two do we achieve an effective response to one of the biggest global energy crises. In Spain, fortunately, the exposure to Russia is smaller. The strength of our infrastructure, diversification of suppliers and indigenous response capacity are very high, but it does not make us immune, we are still exposed to price increases. That is why the responses adopted and the Government's commitment to a just social strategy to deal with these difficult times is fundamental. We have been putting this forward since June 2021 with successive packages of measures to impose an 80% reduction in the tax burden on electricity consumers, to be added the reduction in the regulated costs of the bill, charges, which are the responsibility of this government, up to 56% compared to those in force a year ago, when the price crisis began in June 2021. And acting on the two components of the bill in which we could do so, taxation and fixed costs, we have exceptionally added the extraordinary reduction in tolls on the transport and distribution of electricity for the industry. To this must be added the top of the gas of the Iberian mechanism - which I have already shared - but also the reduction of the extraordinary profits that the electricity companies came to obtain from the consumers in the absence of the instrument that we approved in Decree Law 17/2021, of urgent measures to mitigate the impact of the price escalation of natural gas in the retail markets of gas and electricity, which allows us to recover up to 90% of the extraordinary profits generated in contracted energy at a price more than 67 euros megawatt hour. In September we adopted this measure, which is an exceptional instrument now recognised in the Commission's communications of 8 March and 18 May inviting Member States to take measures to reverse these extraordinary benefits, either through regulation, as Spain had done, or through taxation. A minority, which some described recklessly and frivolously as terrorist interventionism, becomes a fundamental reference in a very large part of the countries in our environment. Its application has a double effect: on the one hand, it detracts a large part of the extraordinary benefits that can be generated - more than 340 million euros in our case - but also, and above all, it has served to limit the rise in tariffs at the time when it was renewed. It has been customary for traders not to update these prices above EUR 67 per megawatt hour in order to prevent precisely the activation of the reduction, i.e. it has been an effective measure to protect consumers. Measures to contain the impact of the price crisis do not focus exclusively on necessity, they also extend to the field of natural gas and fuels. We have limited the rise of the regulated gas bill to 5% per quarter. We have guaranteed the bonus for fuels of 20 cents per litre, applying since March. From the very beginning, this government has acted to promote a fair distribution of costs and efforts, primarily protecting the most vulnerable and middle classes, so we have increased the discount on the electric social bonus by 60% for vulnerable groups and 70% for severe vulnerable groups. We have created the figure of the minimum vital supply, which protects vulnerable consumers from cuts, and we have increased the amount of the thermal social bonus and included the recipients of the minimum vital income. They are protective measures which have also been adopted to preserve the economic competitiveness of the industries most exposed to energy prices and which are the basis of our productive fabric. As I said before, we have reduced 80 % of tolls for electric intensive consumers, we have increased compensation for indirect CO2 emissions costs, we have facilitated the flexibility of gas contracts so that industrial consumers can adjust their contracts to consumer needs, and we have promoted direct aid within the temporary framework of aid for large gas consumers. And now I'm going to ask you a question, because you're very entertaining. Do you know how many times the right wing of this country has supported any of these measures in Parliament? I'll make it clear to you, none. None! Their mouths are filled protesting, but they have never supported a single measure; on the contrary, it gives the impression that they are wanting everything to go wrong. From here I appeal to the memory of the people, because this is not the first time that they apply that of 'the sinking Spain, that we will raise it'. But this time they won't get it. [[Applauds]] Last Saturday, the Council of Ministers extended many of these protection measures until the end of the year, in addition to being reinforced by complementary measures, such as the 5% reduction in VAT for electricity, placing us as the European Union country with the lowest VAT, together with Malta; the maintenance of the existing rebates for the social bonus; the freezing of the maximum price of butane candy until the end of the year at EUR 19.55; the approval of a EUR 200 aid for low incomes, and a transitional increase for six months of 15% of minimum vital income payrolls and non-contributory retirement and invalidity pensions, and the extension of the bonus to fuels of 20 cents per litre until the end of the year, still being the fastest and most effective way to protect consumers from increases in fuel prices. To all this, we have accompanied measures to support public transport, thanks to the reduction of 50% of the price of all monthly allowances and land travel titles of state competition and the reduction of more than 30% of transport allowances of autonomous communities and local entities, to which we hope that the autonomous communities will be added in order to be able to materialise this reduction as soon as possible; above all, we hope that they will be able to make their contribution in order to be able to achieve a reduction of 50% in this case. In addition, we maintain and extend direct aid to the intensive gas industries and are designing a new tax that will tax the extraordinary profits of energy companies. In short, with the measures adopted three months ago and with the new package of measures adopted on Saturday, we believe that the CPI will be contained in 3.5 points, avoiding a rise in inflation which, in its absence, would be much greater. We know that this is not enough, we know that what has been described so far are important, capital measures, on which we must always pay attention, but they are emergency measures, the calls to contain the dramatic situation in which we are in. Above all, we need substantive measures, capable of addressing the causes of the problem or even preparing for a deterioration of the situation in the event that this becomes worse. That is why, in line with what was agreed in Europe on 18 May, we have strengthened cooperation between gas and energy operators, taking decisions that require a cautious storage policy also in Spain. Our dynamic winter plan has been modified to strengthen safety in the period of increased consumption and Decree Law 6/2022 established that natural gas warehouses must be at 90% of their capacity on October 31st in order to be able to cope with the winter more calmly. This is an objective incorporated in advance in March, well before its adoption last week by the European Parliament, which determined the need to have 80 % of the covered storage capacity by the end of 2022 and 90 % by 2023. At present the underground warehouses in Spain are 72 % of their capacity, and the storage of LNG, at around 80 %, is extremely positive compared to those of other States, such as France, 57; Italy, 55; or Germany, 42. Along with immediate response measures, I would like to remind you of some of the structural response, which guarantees us in the medium and long term a drastic reduction in our dependence on fossil fuels. The production, transport and intelligent consumption of energy are essential, promoting digitisation, saving and efficiency; electrification of end-uses wherever possible is essential, and the development and deployment of renewables, self-consumption and new energy technologies and energy vectors such as biogas or renewable hydrogen or solutions such as storage are essential. They are three major axes that involve innovation, industry, employment, improving quality of life and benefits and adequate responses to the situation we suffer. They involve measures to accelerate the energy transition, aligned with the European energy and climate project, and a key orientation reinforced with the resources of the Next Generation funds in a strategic and efficient way to allow the deployment of self-consumption, through the release of 10% of the capacity of the nodes of the distribution transport networks, which explains why since June 2018 the self-consumption has multiplied by 5.5 times in our country; that they require the regulation of floating photovoltaics and offshore wind; that they require the replenishment of the pioneering wind installations that are coming to the end of their useful life; that they require us to promote the use of renewable gases, such as biogas or renewable hydrogen, with the aim of facilitating the decarbonisation of industry and end-uses of energy, in accordance with the principles of circular economy and the exploitation of indigenous resources, and that they require the deployment of electric mobility, including the charging infrastructure. We are working on the development of a flexible system, adapted to a renewable high penetration horizon; a system that requires proper regulation of capacity markets, smart networks, digitisation, demand management. Therefore, being in the context of regulatory sandboxes, allows us, in a controlled and narrowed environment, to test regulatory improvements and new ones, as well as to deploy the regulation of new figures to then be able to transfer them with certainty and certainty to the general regulatory framework. The data confirms that we are going in the right direction, managing to channel our renewable potential with the investor appetite. In 2018 there were 23.4 gigawatts of wind and 4.7 of photovoltaics; in 2022, there were 29.3 wind and 16.2 of photovoltaics, a growth of 25% and 344 % respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, as you see, at national level we have acted at all possible levels, and we continue to do so, but the response to this crisis - you have heard me say it already - necessarily passes through the European level. The proposals put forward by Spain reiterate the need to promote energy infrastructure through the development of electricity interconnections on the peninsula and the rest of the continent, responding in solidarity to the European request that Spain provide coverage to other countries of the Union, also in the field of gas, making clear the importance of not taking steps back and working for a gas infrastructure that is prepared for hydrogen or promoting the creation of a joint gas procurement platform, which, like the purchase of masks during the pandemic, would strengthen the negotiating power of the European Union on international markets. Or, finally, leading the proposal to open a rigorous and in-depth debate on the current rules of the electricity market, echoed last week by President Ursula von der Leyen, compromising the presentation of a proposal for the regulation of the electricity market, whose current rules of operation have not prevented the contagion of gas prices on electricity and involve a very important drain of economic resources for European industry and families. In Spain, the Government understood that these circumstances required the adoption of extraordinary firewall measures, and proposed to its partners to initiate a quiet debate, open to all actors, to reform market rules, both temporarily, in the face of extraordinary adverse circumstances, and structurally, facilitating the evolution towards the needs and characteristics of our energy systems in the twenty-first century. It will be a debate that begins in October with the proposal for reform promised by the President of the Commission. The trial of what happens here will help us to know better how to do it. It will be an important sign, since wholesale prices, their impact on future prices, allow us to work on different fronts; in our case, in the Spanish case, also to work on another major pending reform: to reduce the volatility of the regulated tariff. The high volatility of the market highlights the need to reformulate the tariff to find a balance between cost competitiveness and greater stability so that domestic consumers and SMEs can better plan their energy expenditure; it is also the rate at which vulnerable consumers, who receive the social bonus, are welcomed, making it particularly necessary and essential to undertake the reform that stabilizes their bills. That, without the Iberian mechanism, without signs of lower prices of present and future, would be a clumsy undertaking a reform for which price references have to be existing references, not references of the past. Therefore, once the Iberian mechanism is in place, we have committed ourselves to making the necessary changes to the methodology for calculating the PVPC tariff before October this year in order to introduce a more stable price reference, such as the futures of electricity. Our forecast is that the new energy costing formula for the regulated tariff can start to apply in early 2023. The impact on future prices and prices also facilitates an expansion of the supply of products allowing medium- and long-term procurement between developers, traders, industrialists and large consumers. In this area, measures to reduce risks are particularly important. Today we have domestic instruments such as the CESCE FERGIE fund, created by this government, but we also propose that instruments developed for the whole of Europe by the European Investment Bank. There are many outstanding issues, both in the short term, consolidating an equitable cost-benefit response, including the adoption of the specific tax on energy companies, and in the medium and long term, accelerating structural change. A horizon that must inspire the revision of the integrated energy and climate plan, adapting it to this new context and including the mobilizing effect of both the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and the need to advance objectives in this context. The recovery plan represents a huge opportunity for Spain not only to develop and accelerate renewable deployment, but also to be able to generate the transformation of our economy that drives the entire associated value chain. Ladies and gentlemen, the circumstances we face are extremely turbulent. These are turbulences, conflicts, disruptive difficulties that can occur at any time and anywhere. And the important thing, the fundamental thing, is how one reacts, what are the principles that inspire the response by those who are temporarily at the head of the institutions. This Government has made it clear since the first day, it remains clear and it will continue to make it clear: we will do all the answers under the premises of social justice, redistribution of efforts and protection of citizens and productive sectors, especially those most in need of a strong public sector, who do not turn their backs at times of difficulty, as unfortunately happened in the past. We will continue to work, guided by the general interest, analysing developments and taking appropriate steps to do so at all times. We will continue to work on structural reform and emergency response and, ladies and gentlemen, I think there are plenty of reasons to ask for their support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u202	Thank you so much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mariscal Anaya has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u203	Madam Vice President, if you have the pleasure of listening... Thank you. Look, you're here today because you've forced my parliamentary group on you. You are obliged by Parliament to be accountable. [[Applauds]] You are not here today to tell us any plans for the future, but to respond to what your Government is currently doing. Madam Vice President, what country do you live in? I listened to her carefully. Where do you live? Who are you dealing with? Who are you talking to? What companies are you talking to? It is really impressive that you have this responsibility and so much incapacity. Look, her only duty as Vice-President was to guarantee the basic energy trilemma that we have repeatedly reiterated in both the Commission and the plenary: environmental sustainability, twenty-four hours supply guarantee, seven days a week and a sustainable price, which is borne by families and which does not remain competitive to the Spanish economy. That was the problem. [[Applauds]] You have invented a new one that consists of lack of competition - as I will then prove -, technological politicization - that is, not to take advantage of those technologies that are available to the market at good prices and guaranteeing the trilemma that I said before - and an absolute lack of transparency and good governance in its management. After all, once again the Socialist Party deepens the energy error and undermines the economy and sustainability of Spanish families. Look, I'm going to disassemble the fantasy luck that has come here to tell us about what's known as the gas cap. We were told there was going to be a 30-euro gas cap, then it was 40 and we're done in 50. He told us that there would be a double auction and that, therefore, the French and the Spanish would pay the same. That's what he told us. The truth is that we've been exporting energy to France every day for a month. Do you know why that happens? Because we are subsidizing the French economy, businesses and families. [[Applauds]] If the calculations continue like this, we will end up subsidising the French with between 1000 and 1500 million euros. I say this so that it is clear to the Spaniards that you make it easier for Spanish consumers - families and businesses - to send between three and four million euros each day to the French. [[Applauds]] What a business, Mrs Ribera! We subsidize the French economy. In addition, it has made more combined cycles work. Therefore, we have increased dependence on gas, we have increased the bill and, of course, we have emitted more CO2. You said that this was going to be co-financed, that is, that we paid for it among all. That's not true. It is not true, Madam Vice-President: the cost overrun and the gas subsidy are currently being paid by a third of consumers, only 40% of the energy. The rest, those who are long-term, are going to find a surprise. Those who are in the PVPC a brutal discount of 10%, but those who have a long-term contract, those who signed a one-year contract, companies and families, those who represent 60% of consumers, will meet each time they go to renew the contract with which you have raised their electricity bill. Why don't you tell me, Madam Vice President? Why don't you tell the Spaniards the truth of your buoyant and brilliant measures? Why doesn't it say that during this month the pool, in fact, is an average of 155, but that we pay and subsidize gas at 98 euros per megawatt hour daily among those of the PVPC? Why don't you do the sum of the two figures and just refer to one? You said this measure was going to cost 4 billion. At this rate it goes to 9000, because you made a calculation at 80 euros the megawatt hour of gas and is at 110. Every 10 euros that goes up, 1.5 million more. Why don't you count this, Madam Vice President? Only in June has electricity production with gas increased by 90% in Spain. 90%. For what? To cover electricity exports to France. Thank you, Madam Vice President. Brilliant. But look, in January 2021, these poor and insulting Members of the People's Party, these people who come to help you, even if you don't let them, these people who listen to the sector and think that it is better to govern with the sector, to govern with families, to govern with the Spanish, that is, that we don't have an ideology that limits our ability to talk - take note - in January 2021, when Filomena's misfortune occurred, we said: Are you guaranteeing and seeking to increase the gas reserves so that, if a similar thing happens, we have a gas at a price that is affordable? He didn't do anything. He's been telling us today that gas reserves have reached 80%. At what price? I want you to answer me. At what price did we buy that gas and at what price would we have bought it if, at the time, as you were told, we had contracts at twenty or thirty years? [[Applauds]] In case it were little, it has left without subsidizing the gas that consumes the cogeneration. In other words, the factories that have gas as the main fuel, as the main tool - tiles, cement, fuel - do not subsidize them. He's closed half of our country's cogeneration. Madam Vice President, congratulations again. We're succeeding. Interconnections. How many kilometers of electric or gas interconnection have been built since you are at the forefront of our country's energy responsibility? [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Zero!]] Zero. Zero. Zero. Look, we could have been a power, a hub for our European partners. We could have increased influence in Europe, become the force to avoid Russia's burden on the economy of other European countries. Zero. Zero. With 500 million euros we would have built the Midcat and we could pour to France 17 bcm, not 7 as now; 17 plus 7, there it comes, 25, indeed. Well, nothing. We haven't done anything. There is another curiosity that we like to highlight to these Members of this group. When you came to the government, the Russian gas that supplied our power stations was 0%. With you, 9%. Let's have a look at what's going on, Madam Vice President. Look, you talked here about the need to improve interconnections. A year ago, you, at the European Energy Council - a year ago, that is, not far beyond last year - said, in quotes, and I repeat to you again, Mrs Rivera: We do not like more gas infrastructures. Therefore, do not increase interconnections. June 2021, last year. He also told us that he did not agree that the gas transport vehicle should be used to inject hydrogen; the opposite of what Pedro Sánchez said here last time. But don't you realize that you are dominated by an ideological consciousness that prevents you from assuming and counteracting the economic situation that the Spaniards are experiencing? Don't you realize? [[Applauds]] In extremis, my colleagues from the Transitional and Industrial Commission, who are here, and society have stopped you from eventually laminating the Spanish economy. Last week, she was forced to paralyze two laws that would, on the one hand, crush non-broadcasting technologies - nuclear and wind energy - imposing a tax on non-carbon emissions - explain this to me later, please - and, on the other hand, a tax on fuel consumption. I mean, you wanted last week, at the current fuel price, to pay between 7 and 10 cents more. But where do you live, Mrs Ribera? What are the political interests that you pursue? The general of course not; the general interest you have abandoned. You don't even like Spain, look what I tell you, you're not interested. I mean it. In your government alone, since you are at the forefront of this matter, nothing butane has risen by 62%; diesel by 100%; petrol by 93%; electricity by 94%. But what successes are you talking about, Madam Vice President? He says the pool here is lower than in France. How many customers - and answer me back - are to pool in France and how many here? You know, like me, that France is a restriction market and that, therefore, there are no customers there; you know it, but you keep cheating. I'm on my way. We have a political proposal that we hand over to you because our obligation is not to win or lose elections, it is to improve the lives of the Spaniards, which we sometimes seem to forget, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]] You have - and ends - to reduce the hydrocarbon tax to the minimum permitted by law, the VAT of all consumers to 5%, the VAT of gas, which is 21%, 5%. But let's see, why does an electric consumer pay 5% VAT and not the gasman? Will you also distinguish between technologies here? Does it bother you so much? So you're chasing the CH4? Really, it's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u204	Mr. Marshal, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u205	I'm done, President. His Government had raised €13 billion as at 30 April this year; it projected 9,000 for the whole year.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u206	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u207	In the month of April 13,000; 9,000 throughout the year. Do you not realize that it has the capacity to pour all that extra income into the Spanish economy, reducing the cost of which is the main tool for economic growth and sustainability of families, which is energy?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u208	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u209	Reflect and answer the questions I have just asked you. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u210	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u211	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. Madam Minister, I wish you were able to control the price of energy with the same eagerness that Pedro Sánchez wants to control Indra, Post Offices, the INE, the CIS. [[Applauds]] I wish, but unfortunately it's not. After all the political verborrhea that you have released us here, given it kills story. I will sum up your energy policy in two minutes: 165 euros fill an average tank of petrol; 76 euros the average bill of light in June, already applied its wonderful Iberian exception, 10% higher than the month of May without its wonderful Iberian exception; 3 euros per litre the price of the fuel to which we will surely arrive this summer; 500 gas stations that have already had to close and hundreds that are already on the verge of bankruptcy because their government has forced them to act as banks; 10.2% the rate of inflation, fulminating any measure that they have been able to apply to date; 2000 million euros increases their collection for each percentage point that rises in inflation, and 14 billion euros is paid to this government only with the increase of electricity and revenues for CO2 emissions. And how much does this government give back to the Spanish? Zero, zero euros. And how much do they aim to alleviate the effects of their disastrous energy policy? Not half of everything they collect with the rise of the energy bill, nor with their tax reduction policies, which we have been told here today, nor with their subsidy to diesel. This is the X-ray of the looting of this government's energy policy. The ruined Spaniards, broken because of their policies, and you're breaking all the collection records. [[Applauds]] Thus, this government can afford to promise millions of euros for video games, millions of euros to renew trade union seats, to encourage illegal immigration or to target more than 20 billion euros to keep gender bars; come on, measures buy votes to try to curb this government's debacle. And in the meantime, we continue to lead the countries with the greatest deficit, the highest public debt, higher inflation and the highest unemployment rate in the European Union. That's what you call a very chulsian scenario for the Spaniards. Minister, you know you can still lower the 'price bill' much more; they have much more room to keep going down. Why don't they? Wait, because he doesn't leave Europe. We could not lower the VAT on electricity because it did not leave Europe, but it was enough an unprecedented electoral defeat in Andalusia so that it did not take them 24 hours to announce the reduction of VAT, which they supposedly could not do. And now they intend to apply effective measures, such as raising taxes to electricity, when they know that this is not going to solve the problem of the millions of households and companies that cannot simply pay their bill for light. Of course, the electrics must tie their shoulders and they must be part of the solution, of course we can even discuss whether this measure can be more or less just, but, ladies and gentlemen, does it tackle the problem? Is the electric bill reduced to the Spanish? No, no, Who benefits from this measure? To you, to this government, only to you. Is your anti-crisis package a package of measures to save the Spanish or to save Sánchez, the autocrat? Ladies and gentlemen, the light has been out of control, as you know, for over a year now, long before Putin began to invade Ukraine. The electric bill began to cover press headlines in the middle of Filomena. Do you remember, minister? Do you remember that 'it's a temporary and short-term fact'? Do you remember, as we warned you over and over again from VOX about the risks and the risks we were faced with with their ideological policies? It was January 2021, and since then the price has not stopped rising as this government looked elsewhere. VOX wants to be the voice of common sense in this House. We are against their climate policies, which we call climate fanaticism, because only a fanatic is capable of harming their country at all costs, applying measures in the name of the survival of the planet without any coherent or technical basis. This should be heard in particular by those Members, ladies and gentlemen, who came to this rostrum yesterday before the motion we tabled from my group and again gave a false and distorted message of what VOX is defending. Because in VOX we have the humility enough to know that we do not have all the answers to the climate change debate or to the temperature change on the planet. But you know what? That you don't have them either. We just refuse to accept inconsistent policies, hypocritical and sectarian policies, which is very different from what you said in this rostrum yesterday. [[Applauds]] VOX wants to preserve and conserve the environment, of course, certainly more than you do, but its ideological policies do not apply ecology, they use it to empty our pockets. In VOX we believe, yes, in a Europe that defends the interests of the Spanish, even if the globalists call this anti-Europeanism. And, yes, we are critical of any sectarian policy that goes against the interests of the Spanish. We try to apply common sense and, from what we see every day in this House, there is only VOX left to denounce the absence of this sense in the crazy policies that the Government implements. And if not, explain to me here today what criterion is behind banning research and exploitation of our resources, to import them more expensive than other countries. Explain to me, Minister, what technical criterion is behind a hasty shutdown of nuclear power plants in Spain, knowing that it is a firm and clean technology and on which we depend. What logical criterion is behind flying thermal power plants in Spain to buy coal energy from other countries, such as Morocco? [[Applauds]] You have spoken about fundamental problems, but this Government has tried to solve all energy problems without going to the fundamental problem, which is nothing other than its own climate and ideological policies. The result: the gasoline becoming more expensive and the bill of light constantly rising. This Government, instead of attacking the origin of the problem, is dedicated to intervening in the outcome. Go to the origin, minister, and listen to me well, pay attention to me, which then says we don't propose anything. They demand, first of all, to curb the speculative market for CO2 emissions, which greatly increases the energy bill. [[Applauds]] And until they do, they start returning to the Spaniards every euro of the millions of euros that the government is pocketing with CO2 allowances or dedicate themselves directly to lowering the bill. The tonnage of CO2 has increased from EUR 7 in 2012 to more than EUR 80 in 2022, which is causing, for example, that our thermal power plants are not profitable and that, for this reason, we have to import energy from coal plants from Morocco, because, of course, they do not pay CO2. To all the climate change gurus present in this House, I ask: what happens if the emissions are emitted by Morocco do not affect the atmosphere? Explain it to me. [[Applauds]] Is it so hard to understand that we can't get rid of technologies that we depend on? At least let's do it until we stop depending on them. Is it so hard to understand? What we must ask Europe, Minister, is not to limit the price of gas, but an urgent reform in the wholesale electricity pricing market, the design of which causes us to be paying these astronomical prices in the electricity bill. It is not a question of applying games of trilers, such as their Iberian exception, it is a question of demanding and proposing a structural reform that will stop condemning our country to ruin and energy misery. Why do they not propose, for example, to take the gas completely out of the marginalist market? It would be a much more effective, ambitious and efficient measure that would indeed significantly lower the bill. Another issue is to have all our strategic resources and a balanced energy mix that offers low prices, security and firmness. Minister, one out of every five times that the light is on in Spain nuclear energy is consumed, and you not only suffocate the nuclear sector, but in turn cause a diplomatic crisis with our main gas supplier, Algeria, or give the Sahara to Morocco, damaging our claims on numerous millionaire natural resources, such as the Tropic underwater volcano, which has fifty thousand times more tellurium than there is usually in the deposits of this metal on land. Minister, I'm not surprised that you don't look at me and that you only know how to look down when I speak to you, because no one who has done to Spain the damage that you are doing to you can look to another place other than the ground, Minister. [[Applauds]] One last curiosity. On the NATO dinner menu we saw olives, red tuna mustard brochettes, cebiche, tiger milk corvina, rich with oil soup and pink grapefruit, among other exquisite. I wanted to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u212	Your Honor, finish, please. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u213	In what part of the menu are the worms and processed vegetable meat, which so much promulgates your dear 2030 Agenda, minister? In what part of the menu were insects and vegetable meat?...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u214	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u215	...or the menu that the Spaniards recommend to wear at the taper, minister? Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u216	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communo Podemos - Galicia in Communo, which has its turn in this turn, Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u217	Thank you, President. He has devoted more time to insects and the underwater volcano than to the gas top. I'm hallucinating with the extreme right, which, by the way, is being put on the face of Citizens lately. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President-third, it is a challenge for me to intervene in a matter as important as this for the working people and small businesses of our country, that of the bill of light. As it is also a complex issue, I will try to be as pedagogical as possible, thus facilitating parliamentary debate and political debate. First of all, how does the electricity market work? Except for long-term contracts and new renewable auctions, the electricity market operates under a mechanism called a marginalist. What is this about? First, we estimate the electricity demand that is going to be in the country as a whole in the morning for timetables. Secondly, the different power stations offer energy, usually measured in megawatt hours at the price they freely choose. Then, the lowest-priced bids are accepted, i.e. starting with the cheapest offers, and so on until the demand of the whole country is met. According to this design, obviously the last offer that is accepted is the most expensive one, which has a higher price per megawatt hour. And this is where the logic, so called, marginalist appears. Instead of paying each offer at the price offered, which would be logical, all megawatt hours are paid at the price of the last offer, i.e. the most expensive, regardless of the cost of production of each plant. Let us set a concrete example so that we can see the dimension of the scam. Yesterday, 29 June, according to data from the Ministry of Ecological Transition, if the gas cap had not been activated, the average price of electricity in the wholesale market would have been 271 euros megawatt hour. This would have been the average price of the last bids to enter the auction, the price of the most expensive bid and the price at which all bids would be paid: 271 euros. Now let us bear in mind that producing a megawatt of nuclear time, for example, costs around 40 euros. Therefore, we would be paying it at almost seven times its cost and the benefit would be almost 800 %. In turn, producing a megawatt of hydropower costs around 10 euros. In this case, we would be paying it at twenty-seven times its cost and the profit would be 2600 %. No wonder, therefore, that this is called the fallen benefits of heaven, although, of course, stealing would be a much more precise word. Yeah, steal. Since I can't be bought with a revolving door, I can say: steal. Having said that, how does the gas cap work? How does the Iberian exception work? Well, in addition to nuclear power, hydroelectric power and all the others, there is one type of power plant that runs on gas. Like right now, due largely to the invasion of Ukraine, gas is very expensive in international markets, these gas plants are very hard to buy raw materials and therefore have to sell their very expensive megawatt hour. As the marginalist market allocates to all technologies the most expensive price, without the top that the government has put on we would all be paying at gas prices. Therefore, what the Iberian mechanism does is to put a stop to the price of the raw material and this is transferred to an effective stop in the price of the megawatt hour of the gas plants, which typically makes the price of the valuation, that is, the price of the last offer, lower than if the stop did not exist. Finally, because gas stations cannot work at losses, they are compensated for the money they have stopped collecting. In this way we have altered the marginalist system, because we are paying gas at gas prices, but the other technologies at a significantly cheaper price. In other words, we cannot prevent gas from being extremely expensive in international markets, but we can reduce the sky's falling profits from power plants that do not need gas to produce energy and thus lower the bill for light. And this that sounds so good in theory, does it work in practice? The answer is yes. Let's take the example of yesterday again. As I said, if the gas cap were not active, the average price would have been about 271 euros per megawatt hour. Thanks to the Iberian mechanism, the average valuation price was about 133 euros yesterday, about half. But let us not forget, as the spokesman for the PP said very well, that compensation must be added to the gas plants; yesterday this amounted to about 86 euros, with which the final price was about 219 euros, a reduction of 20% regarding what we would have paid without limit, although the spokesman of the People's Party does not like. Indeed, the mechanism works. If we compare it with the countries in our environment, we come to the same conclusion. Yesterday we paid around 30% less than in Germany and around 35% less than in France or Italy, and yesterday was not an exceptional day, but rather a more or less typical day. So, congratulations, third vice president, and congratulations to the entire coalition government. We are talking about a courageous and, moreover, effective measure. By the way, when União Podemos proposed already many months ago to put a stop to the marginalist price, which is basically the same thing that this mechanism does, we were told of everything less beautiful. We are very happy that it has finally been shown that it could be done, because that means that we are going to relieve the bill of many people in Spain. By the way, and this is where you launched the first proposal from our parliamentary group, Mrs Rivera, you are sensitively down from the light is only automatic in what we call PVPC or regulated market. But there is also the free market in Spain, which is, if I may, the second part of the scam. It's very easy to explain. In the free market the price of energy is not defined as I have commented, but it is agreed between the company and the customer. If we take into account that the big electrics are not sisters of charity, if they can offer the price that gives them the will always will get a profit, and, in fact, historically the prices of the free market have been almost always higher than those of the regulated market. That's why Mr. Sánchez Galán, allegedly hiring Mafia Villarejo to extort his business rivals, the other day called his own customers who are in the regulated market fools, and he did it because he wanted them to move on to the free market in order to cheat is better. Since you can't buy me with a revolving door, I can also say this clearly. [[Applauds]] The reduction of the bill due to the gas cap will only apply automatically in the regulated market, and that is why my group proposes that all kinds of permanence or sanctions be eliminated in the free market contracts so that people can freely do the opposite of what Mr Sánchez Galán has said and can be passed on to the regulated market. The second proposal we want to make to you, Madam Third Vice-President, has to do with the government's agreement. In the Government's agreement it does not reduce the fallen benefits of heaven, it puts an end to the fallen benefits of heaven, and it is clear that this has not been achieved. Yesterday, even with the gas cap, 133 euros were paid per megawatt hour to plants to which it costs 40 or 10 euros to produce it. They're getting thinner, but they're still getting thinner. That is why, and having found that the marginalist system is not sacred and can be touched, we believe that the Government should work seriously to put a lower effective ceiling that would further reduce the fallen benefits of heaven to oligopoly. One thing that can be done immediately, Mrs Rivera, is to unlock the processing of the draft law on the reduction of the benefits associated with the price of CO2. We do not understand why you have decided to postpone it to September. The only effect that approval of this rule would have is that big electrics have fewer profits and consumers pay less on their bill. We have indeed managed to contain the increase in the invoice, but it is still very high, unacceptably high. Let us therefore release this bill so that it can be passed in July. It is not a structural solution to the scam of the fallen benefits of the sky, but it helps. Finally, we think that an extraordinary tax should be imposed on the profits of the big electrics and the big oil companies, and we think that it should be done now. We do not understand, Madam Third Vice-President, why the PSOE insists on postponing it until January 2023; we do not understand it. I'm going to give you some data on that. In 2021, this set of companies, big oil companies and big electric companies, quadrupled their profits, not only with respect to the year 2020, the year of the pandemic, but also with respect to the year 2019. For this exercise, Mr Sánchez Galán has again announced record profits for Iberdrola and the most succulent dividend distribution in his history. While working people and small businesses cannot reach the end of the month, the energy and oil oligopoly is being supplied. You have to raise your taxes, you have to make them pay and you have to do it now. [[Applauds]] Since I can't be bought with a revolving door, I can tell. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u218	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice-President, I was asking the bench on my right, very carefully, how many times they have supported the government's measures. The answer is zero, and it's a mistake I think they'll pay. He is now speaking to him who voted in favour of almost all of them, and, in any case, if he criticized them, even if he did so in favour of them, it was because of the environmental and social demands. Therefore, I would like to ask you to change your chip, because I have three questions for you which, although they may seem, are not captivating at all. Supply. Will Europe have gas to spend the winter? Let us not go further than necessary, but it is suggested by your German counterpart and by the large French producers, as you have said. Second question. At what price will we have it, if there is? Citi's forecasts indicate that it does not fall from 36 BTU dollars and a reasonable calculation leads it to more than 400 euros per megawatt hour to the final customer. Minister, wouldn't those be Difot's prices? And in that scenario, which I believe no one wants, not even the right, would have more choice than issuing Eurobonds and subsidizing and, by the way, not subsidizing the benefits of electricity, of course? Because Repsol, Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy closed 2021 with a net profit of €11,054 million, 226 % more than in 2020. By the way, don't you think that you would have to warn severely who you lied to saying that with this crisis you haven't become obscenely rich? You welcomed the progress on Fit for 55 that was announced at the last meeting of environmental ministers, in which you participated. Great. But when will your government fulfill them? His Government was on the podium for non-transposition. By the way, is it true - I have seen little in the press - that the Commission has decided a few days ago to send you, your Government, a formal letter of news because it has only partially communicated measures transposing EU rules, namely 2019/94? The deadline for transposing that directive into state law was 31 December 2020. Please, Minister, confirm to the House that you have received this notice and tell us what your answer will be and how and when you intend to amend this flagrant non-compliance. And, by the way, how much will the fine cost us? We are going to accumulate a nice record in non-compliances, because this is not the only non-compliance of your ministry or your Government. I will mention non-compliance, and I believe that any of them affect the price situation. For example, the dynamic distribution coefficients of self-consumption. It has been a year since the CNMC asked for a ministerial order approving dynamic coefficients. Are you planning on sending it this afternoon? Tell me you do. Infra-marginal auctions. Spain was forced to organize them before the end of 2021 and yet they have not yet been held; the dumping of the prices of large electricity continues. When are these auctions going to be organised so that everyone can compete on an equal footing? The framework for energy communities. How can it be that in neighbouring Portugal or in France self-consumption is allowed at a distance of up to 2 kilometers, greater in the case of higher tensions, and that only with crossing the border this distance is reduced to the ridiculous 500 meters? Is this your bet to boost self-consumption? The cost of this is zero, it's accepting an amendment from Esquerra in the climate change law. I don't know how many times we've blamed him. Very well the Iberian exception, we go with Portugal in prices, but not in the dimension of the energy communities. And so up to a list of twenty non-compliances with the deadlines imposed by the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act that we gave each other, minister. Comments on the Royal Decree Law 10/2022. The proposal has positive effects, but we do not have them quantified. What will be the real impact? It has negative effects: impact on the market structure, which will affect the independent; it will dilute the intensity of the price signal for the energy transition; it intervenes the market in an unwise manner, and can be counterproductive in an analysis of pros and cons. Abusing the mechanism of the Royal Decree Law does not allow for the mandatory participation of agents, such as the regulator. We believe that it is time, Minister, not to put more patches, but to lay the foundations for an energy model that will allow us to reach 30 of each month and, at the same time, 2030 with full security of supply and reduction of emissions and, above all, that will make energy a competitive factor for businesses and families. How? You know it well, combining taxation, yes, okay, but also market reform. All this I think will allow us to avoid artifacts like this. I had promised never to upload a chart, and I've endured six years. [[shows a graph]] His ministry doesn't seem to like industrial cogeneration. It looks good the way the graph falls. What happens to your ministry with industrial cogeneration? Don't you like it? Industrial cogeneration is a key element for the competitiveness of industry and its decarbonisation, as it allows to be a demander of biogas to produce steam and industrial heat. In recent days we have seen that an important part of the cogeneration park is stopping. We want to believe it's an unintended result, but it's diabolical. Doesn't that sound like a misconception to you? Will we ask you to continue to save the heat of domestic consumers while allowing them to dissipate and not to save at the industrial level? As soon as we can amend some of the actual decrees that we have pending you will find our proposal, which is simply about the liquidation of the adjustment mechanism to self-consumption cogeneration facilities, where it is necessary to regulate that it is carried out on the total energy generated. Another perverse result of its patchwork policy is the final cost of energy that companies pay, which is the result of two concepts that we pay and that we charge for that...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u220	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u221	I'll keep an eye on your answers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u223	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Madam Minister, we are here so that citizens can arrive at the end of the month, that they can pay the bills of supply or that companies continue to operate and create jobs. That was the objective of the energy measures that we brought them in their day - in the meeting with the ministers Bolaños, Díaz and Calviño, in a proactive and not merely critical attitude. But we arrived today having to say that their policies have not just been understood. On the one hand, for lack of efficiency or demand with the greats of energy oligopoly; on the other, because they are not transparent and, moreover, because they do not listen to the opposition. In March, the European Commission validated the Iberian exception so that Spain and Portugal could set the cap at the price of gas used in combined cycle thermals to lower the price of light; a cap that, let us remember, is now 40 euros megawatt hour. Subsequently, they approved the compensation mechanism to cover the difference between this cap and the actual price on the gas market. And what happened? When the mechanism came into force, the price of light continued to rise because the big electrics decided to open the hydraulic tap and close the auction at an absolutely abusive price. They did so because it is clear that they earned more than their combined cycle plants, despite having the subsidized gas. And since they are dominant operators and control almost the entire generation, they decide whether we are now being plugged into the electricity of hydraulics or gas, manipulating the market at will and, by the way, being irresponsible because they let the water run without need and in extreme heat, fires and drought threat. The mechanism for offsetting the gas price misadjustment would be much more effective with more players in the distribution. Let's set an example. If the megawatt hour of gas is worth 100 euros on the market and the top is 40 euros, you have to pay 60 euros of subsidy to the combined cycle plant. The more the players make up for the 60 euros, the more the discount will be noted in the invoice price of the regulated rate. But if the big ones stay out of distribution, they pay the small ones. Not to mention the 'papafantas' effect that we are living in France. The French do not pay our compensation mechanism and, although they go to an auction that generates congestion income to pay, it is still much cheaper for them to buy electricity in Spain. We have moved from an import balance of 15 gigawatts per day before the mechanism to an export balance of 20 gigawatts per day, after the mechanism, balance, to say the least, 'papagantism' of 37 gigawatts per day. And you know what happens when the demand grows? Let the price rise, especially for those who do pay the compensation. We are not surprised that the government, at the desperate election, cuts VAT from 10% to 5%, a reduction that is going to eat the upward trend in prices, as has happened with the 20 cents/litre subsidy for petrol or diesel. The gas companies announce that in a few months we can be spraying the 3 euros/litre. What are you going to tell the transporters? How are they going to avoid the rise in the shopping basket knowing that, today, we can already talk about an inflation of 10.2%? On the other hand, we tell them that they are not transparent from objectivity. Nine months after it was forced by royal decree to make an auction with 25% of electricity generated by dominant operators' infra-marginal technologies, the auction has no date. It was a measure to promote competition and to marketers. The big marketers are the ones who are eating the market. Small ones have lost more than 10% of their customer portfolio in a quarter. What are you waiting for? Isn't there one left? The operator of the Iberian energy market has a theoretical calculation of how much energy is exempt from paying the gas adjustment, from now until within a year. Why haven't they released the data? Nor do we know what volume of energy has ceased to be exempt from the payment of the adjustment for contract change, either as a tariff marketer or as a condition. More transparency. You said a while ago that other countries pay much more for energy at the regulated rate. That's right. What he has not said is that, in those countries, the majority of consumption is negotiated on time and is thus paid much less, as would happen here. We will remind you of some of the measures we ask you to take. For example, they force nuclear power plants to sell most of their production at a competitive fixed price to all traders, as France does, without resorting to a gala exception; they apply the same solution for hydraulics, especially those which were not granted in democracy, which are more than amortized; they equip the tolls of transport of the network of 25 kilowatts to those of the network of 36 kilowatts, which is technically fair, and thus would help the Catalan industry not to bear unfair costs; they lift the limitations, as has already been said, to the self-consumption, as Portugal or as France, to encourage the energy communities; they regulate the energy community mechanism as required by Europe, eliminating indefinitions, giving legal certainty in the development of the new role of the consumer as an active customer; they audit from the CNMC possible frauds in the offers of electricity generators when they force gas-based technology to mark the price and quantify the profits dropped from the next energy subtenance; they establish a priced-priced-priced-for-the-priced-for-the-priced-for-the-price-for-the-price-the-the-price-the-the-price-the-the-price-the-the-the-price-the-the-the-price-price-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-price-price-price-the-the-the-price-the-price-price-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u224	Thank you. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u225	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that you are here, Madam Vice-President, to appear, in theory, essentially, to inform us of the technical aspects of the negotiation with the Commission of the Iberian exception and of the possibility of maintaining it. I - who have been away for a moment from the House to try to eat something, because today is a long day - have been listening to some of the speeches and it seemed to me that some groups were trying to advance the state of the nation debate with you to rehearse for when the president comes. And I've heard you ask what was going on with Indra, what was going on with the INE, you've been asked about the menu that was served at the NATO meeting Mrs. Borrás, you'll forgive me, I was in the dining room, but I've heard by streaming that the average storage of a vehicle costs 160 euros to fill it. [[laughs]] [[Mrs. Borrás Pabon makes negative signs]] Mine, yes, but mine is not half, and I suppose it must be like yours, because 160 euros the average deposit, today, is not here. [[Applauds]] Beyond this, Madam Vice-President, it is true that sometimes in politics they judge you not so much for what you get, but for the expectations we generate and what you end up getting later. Perhaps if something could be blamed on the Government, it was that too high expectations had been generated regarding the short- and medium-term effects of the Iberian exception. I already recognized that the Iberian exception was an achievement of the President of the Government or of the Government, because it was not easy. Now everyone assumes it as an issue that there could be no alternative, but it was not easy, and I recognize it. But I can also blame them that they may have generated a very high expectation. It is true that to assess the effects of a given measure fifteen days or three weeks is short time; we will have to wait to see how these measures evolve. Some other spokesman has hinted, will there be gas in the fall? Autumn, Mr Capdevila, is expected to be hot politically, but it is expected to be cold economically. I am not going to ask you this question, but I do ask you, Madam Vice-President, because we know that this is not going to be settled in the coming weeks, that neither the evolution of inflation nor the prices of fuels and raw materials are going to be resolved in the short term, that they are trying to plan. They have some time, try to take measures by improvising less. I know you couldn't do anything else right now, but this is going to be a long time now. They will have our support if they take these measures and reason them to us in time. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u226	Thank you. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister and Vice-President, this appearance has actually broadened the scale on which it moves from the moment it was raised. It is not just an appearance on a technical matter, but it is coming at a politically very delicate time. It comes in the midst of an inflationary escalation, which is right now the first social and political problem of the Spaniards.Why do I say political problem? Because inflation is not in any way a technical problem for which the formula must be found to solve it; inflation is, in essence, a political problem. It is a political problem, first of all, because it does not affect all Spaniards alike. For the vast majority of Spanish households and working families, inflation is fear, uncertainty or the possibility that if you break the car you break the month. For some, however, inflation is quite the opposite. For Iberdrola, Repsol or BP inflation is not a problem, it is a great opportunity for a huge chollo. In the previous year alone, 38 billion Iberdrola profits, 25 billion Repsol profits and 6600 BP profits. Inflation is, in essence, political because it is a dispute over the distribution of profits and costs. In this inflationary escalation - which as you well know is not demand, the problem is not wages, but it is cost, supply - the biggest are fighting to shift costs to the smaller ones and to the public sector, so that we among all pay them when they, however, at times of profit do not contribute. This has nothing to do with science. The law of gravity says that all objects fall to earth, but there is no law, it's not written anywhere, that says inflation has to fall to the weakest sectors. This is the result of a struggle, of a dispute, and it is essentially a pulse to the State. A privileged minority, who has not been elected in the ballot box, pushes the democratic authorities to ensure that inflation falls on the weakest sectors. These powers make permanent blackmail, which is that on the one hand they cry out against taxes and on the other hand they are the first to receive public aid without putting themselves in line to receive and enjoy public aid. This becomes, basically, a kind of huge parrot. Surely the subsidy for gasoline has been a very illustrative example. It turns out that all Spaniards make a huge effort to reduce the fuel bill and what the oil companies do is increase the price and increase the profit margin, that is, that what they do is they take a huge straw that we pay them all Spaniards to continue to maintain or even increase the profit margin. This can happen exactly the same with homeowners and vulture funds if the rental aid is not accompanied by a price limit. An immense paguita that all Spaniards have transferred to those who are already millionaires. And to the Hispanic liberal, who is usually very worried about the increase in public spending, is paid that we give all the Spanish to the millionaires, this huge little chiringuito that we pay to the oil companies or the vulture funds, does not worry. This pulse which has been launched by some privileged sectors to shift the cost of inflation to the public sector or to the weakest has to be won by the state, it has to be won by the general will, in order to be able to distribute the burdens fairly; simply and simply, so that the burdens go to a greater extent for the better and go to a much lesser extent for the worse. There is a tool that we have at our disposal to do so, it is called price control in the inflationary sectors. The right always says that this is absolutely impossible. I am not going to say names so as not to embarrass anyone, but when the masks, someone from VOX said: The intervention of prices will unleash the despletion; the prices are intervened and there is no despletion. When the antigen tests, someone from Citizens said: No one is going to sell the tests because no one will want to sell at a loss; the prices of the tests are involved and there is no shortage. When the electricity market, someone from the PP said: A radical intervention of the market will be chaos and the Iberian exception will not be a triumph, but the manifestation of a failure; the electricity market has been regulated with good results. I'm done, Mr. President. In fact, the right-wings are in favour of the intervention of prices only in a commodity, in the labour force, and are constantly making labour reforms to evaluate it. In the labour force the price can be involved, in the rest of the prices it turns out that it cannot be. If it has been intervened and it has worked, what has been done with the tests, the masks and the electricity, it must be transferred to gas stations and rents. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u228	Thank you. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u229	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, once again the triumphalism of this government is unbearable. Madam Vice-President, I do not know how many times this government has already come to sell the so-called Iberian exception. What I do know is that on no such occasion have the Spaniards noticed a relief in their pocket. The truth is that if for every time this government has celebrated with a medal the gas ceiling would have been reduced by a single euro the bill for each household, today Spain would indeed have an affordable price for Spanish families. You celebrated this before it was even effective, but it is that, as the weeks go by, we have all been able to see that it has been far removed from the results that both the President and yourself had advanced and sold us. The clearest example that the gas cap has not been the magic solution, which only you thought it would be, is the last decree of measures adopted by your Government this weekend. When they know their decisions don't work, new patch they have to approve. And why don't they work, Mrs Ribera? It is very simple, because you recognize with your facts what you refuse to admit with words: the measures against the asphyxiation of Spanish families do not work, and the proof is that yesterday inflation exceeded the two figures to 10.2%; the first data since the mechanism was put in place and it turns out that it does not only reduce the impact, but that prices continue to rise. Normally they want to get rid of the president of the INE because with data so it is impossible to sell their goods to the Spaniards. And it doesn't surprise us, because his instruction manual is based only on improvising, patching and seeing if the flute ever plays. Look, Mrs Ribera, the Spaniards are tired of being taken for fools because, like us, the citizens have memories and remember that line of unfulfilled promises on the part of your Government. They remember how more than three months ago the so-called Iberian exception was sold to a bowl and plate as a great victory in Brussels; a measure that was going to relieve the invoice between 50 and 30 %, depending on the day and the person of his government who said so; of course, they were not very convinced of it. Once this measure has been implemented, we have seen that the price of light has fallen by only 6% and, at most, it has been able to reach 10% someday. So much for that, minister? So much for that? Far away is already when Mr Sánchez promised that the Spaniards would pay at the end of last year the same as on the 2018 invoice. In view of the fact that they could not comply with it, they again insulted the intelligence of the citizens, with that of 'discounting inflation'. In fact, Mrs Rivera, I recognize the difficulty of your appearance today, because among those who have been deceived by Sánchez you are also, yes you; who last Thursday said that tax rebates were not used to solve the problem of light bill prices. You described as cosmetic the reduction of 10% to 5% of the electric VAT that we asked from the opposition many months ago, let alone more than a year ago. But it turns out that the urgency of this government has again led you to have to rectify and this same Saturday you have adopted a royal decree that includes that cosmetic measure. I ask you, Minister, what should opposition parties do? They tell us we have to have a sense of state. Do we support a decree with measures that you yourself have confirmed are not going to serve anything and do not propose new and better measures? We already knew the usual discrepancies between the two sides of the Government, between Mr Sánchez and Mrs Belarus, between Mrs Calviño and Mrs Díaz, but within the Socialist Party itself it seems to us that it already discredits them much more than they have done so far. I don't know if it's because of your incoherence, Mrs Ribera, or the passivity of your government, but saying a week that lowering electricity taxes is useless and then putting that measure into effect three days later... I tell you one thing, we were the first to propose to you, when Filomena arrived in our country, that you will lower the VAT on the bill of light and, as always, have done wrong and late. You may no longer remember, but for more than a hundred days, in particular since 15 March this year, you have had on the table a list of proposals from my parliamentary group, including the extension of the reduction in electricity taxes; more than three months ago, Mrs Ribera. Do you know how much the bill price has risen at this time? Do you know how many families have continued to lose purchasing power over inflation at this time? But going back to the subject of attendance, Minister, you will agree with me that the so-called Iberian exception is not a matter of which to take breasts precisely. My group supported the approval of the gas cap, we are not suspected of anything, but that does not prevent us from pointing out the cluster of disagreements they have had throughout this process. We have already talked about how Mr Sánchez returned from Brussels three months ago in a triumphal spirit because he had supposedly achieved that so-called exception. Then your government, as I said before, promised a 30% reduction - it has already lowered expectations - but it is that after that that figure has fallen and you have again lowered it yourself saying that it would be at most 15%. Finally, we have what we have, that the Spaniards continue to pay the same bill that is relatively short ago. But how to recognize mistakes is not an option for you, you have not lacked excuses to explain that in the end the discount was not for so much. When we voted for the gas cap mechanism weeks ago, both my parliamentary group and other opposition parties insisted that subsidizing the price of gas in our country would have an impact on exports because it would increase the demand of our neighbours, and so it has been, and we told them and told them. By offering the cheapest energy we are seeing how the interconnection that used to be bidirectional with our neighbouring countries has now become one-way. And this means that, in practice, Spanish consumers are subsidizing gas to the French and also to other neighbouring countries. That's right, each of us is paying them the cheapest gas, so France can enjoy it. According to Aelec, if before the top we export to France, 5 terawatt hours, now it has passed to 25, quintupling the sale of electricity. I repeat, who pays for this party? The Spaniards. The reality, Mrs Rivera, is that, beyond whether the gas cap lowers or not the bill to consumers, what is sure is what is going to cost us each and every one of us: EUR 11 billion, EUR 3.5 million a day for selling energy cheaper than it costs us to France. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you can make up the numbers as you like, but they don't lie. We have already seen what Mr Sánchez does, which is to discount inflation when it comes to him, when he means that he has lowered the bill from the light, but he is not. And, even though they cast megawatt hour cassation data with the top applied, they always forget to include the compensation that must be paid to gas companies. Therefore, although the average price of graphics, which are committed to sharing on their social networks, is cheaper than the average price of electricity in other countries, the reality is clumsy. If the average price of last week's megawatt hour was 163 euros -100 euros less than last month's price and lower than other countries, that is true - when we add the compensation to the companies, it increases to 273 euros, which is 13 euros more than in the same week of March. The reality is that the effect of the gas cap is very diluted when we also account for what we have to compensate the gas companies. A compensation that, for the moment, has already cost us more than 148 million euros. For another example, a clearer one. Yesterday, Mrs Ribera, the Spaniards paid the megawatt hour at 132.74, with the top of the expenditure applied, but if we add the compensation that consumers have to pay - and that you always forget, because that does not want to tell the Spaniards, that we pay it among all - the real price is 218.55. [[The lady]] Do you know how much we paid exactly a month ago, without the gas cap? EUR 161.84. Indeed, less than now. The reality is clumsy, Mrs Ribera, and this too I say to Mr Echenique, who does these same accounts, but does not count the reality of what we finally pay among all the Spaniards. That is why, Mrs Ribera, the worst thing is that precisely because you want to do cosmetic measures that generate headlines, you have achieved a doubling that seemed really difficult: you have run out of the gas cap effect and you have left without making the reforms that would really be a relief for families. I'll give you an example. With this top of the gas that you have taken months to drive, in the best case the savings do not reach 200 euros. The opposition, Citizens, we have been asking for months to deflate the IRPF so that the Spanish do not lose purchasing power because of the rise in prices; in fact, all Spanish households would have already saved those 200 euros on average, but, of course, it means lowering taxes and they only do that when they have no choice. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u231	Thank you, President. Lowering the price of electricity is an urgent need, and for this purpose the mechanism of the Iberian exception was devised. A mechanism that, of course, is not perfect because its impact is variable because it depends on the price of gas. We are aware that this is a temporary measure and that we must go further and advocate structural measures in the medium term. But it must also be said that any measure needs time to produce or deploy its effects, and I think it has been made a mistake thinking or suggesting that this mechanism would have immediate effects. Perhaps the Government, in that sense, has sinned to estimate and announce that it had too ambitious a price reduction when the measure was still unapproved by Europe and without any conditioning also established by Europe, and that now, because of these constraints that they have imposed, it is going to have a smaller impact. We recognise that the mechanism has not had its best start, because it is true that in its first days of implementation the mechanism failed to reduce the price of electricity for consumers, because, despite the price having fallen, the amount of the adjustment for compensation nullified the effect of that decrease. However, in recent weeks we are already seeing price reductions, including compensation, vis-à-vis other countries of the European Union. For example, on 26 June, the price with the mechanism stood at 188.78 euros, compared to 280.80 euros in the mechanism and lower than France, which had 334.3 euros; Italy, 347.7 euros, and so on. By the way, countries - some - that have public electricity companies with technologies such as nuclear, with taxes on extraordinary profits and yet have higher prices than those of Spain. No one has the magic wand for prices to fall immediately in the marginalist market, nor will they do so by having a public enterprise, by reducing tolls, or by reducing taxes; among other things, because these variables do not affect the price-fixing mechanism itself, but do reduce the bill, because they affect or have effect on other concepts that we pay, but which have little to do with electricity. The reality, as I have said, is that there is no stable energy solution in the short term, only surgical measures to alleviate the situation, because the market remains marginalist, because the supply crisis in Europe living in the war - which, in addition, involves ending Russian gas imports - is far from being solved, because the volume of LNG supply - which needs Europe, in addition, to compensate for the reduction in Russian supply - is not guaranteed, and because, in addition, to ensure this supply, Europe will have to increase prices vis-à-vis competitors like China and others, who also hope to increase their demand. [[Rumors]] That is why we also support this mechanism. An imperfect mechanism, yes, but what is better, to turn the light down, even if it is only 6%, as Mrs Muñoz told us yesterday, or not to turn anything down? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u232	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u233	Is it better that we do not have the mechanism and the price continues to increase by increasing the price of gas and is paid for energy much more on our bill? Because the truth, and this must be said, is that we are not going back to pre-crisis prices, because the situation is very different. It is a mechanism which, of course, in our view, has brought two positive things: on the one hand, that Europe has not ruled out its application in other countries in the event of a total cut in Russia's gas supply and, on the other hand, that, for the first time, the European Commission has recognised that the design of the electricity market does not work and has therefore opened up to debate. Energy markets in Europe are in an exceptional situation, requiring measures to protect the disposable income of families, to ensure the competitiveness of businesses, to avoid relocation, to avoid loss of economic activity and employment, and to avoid regulatory risks leading to a slowdown or abandonment of the investments necessary for the energy transition. This requires reflection, broad dialogue between the actors involved and political groups, planning and coordination also among the groups forming the Government, an analysis of the pros and cons of the adoption of certain measures or decisions and their impact on citizens, businesses, industry and markets. In short, security is needed instead of shuttles. This is what we have been missing, because it seems that we are witnessing a reactive policy, that is to say, of reaction, with barely planning, the measures are taken in extremis and, in some cases, with little coordination between the groups that are part of the Government, each proposing different things, parking some measures and saying goodbye to others that were to be implemented and that are no longer implemented today, and guaranteeing all those structural measures that have not yet been adopted. We, as we have said, have always advocated structural measures as well. Among them, it is necessary to defend the need for a reform of the marginalist market and which Europe is prepared to open. In this sense, if we consider that the government has defended and defended this reform in Europe, a market that was conceived when the fixed and variable costs of the different technologies were similar and that should now be modified, because these costs are very different. The PVPC tariff needs to be reworded. His Government had not addressed it, despite the fact that they had opened a public consultation process in 2021, and it had to be Europe that said it was necessary to reformulate that tariff. It is necessary that this tariff may be indexed to pool and market share of futures, on the basis of indices. But, in turn - and this is another proposal that we are going to make - this market for futures must have liquidity, that is, it must have energy to sell, make producers carry a percentage of energy so that traders can come to that market, compete and get more balanced prices. Now, it is practically impossible to go to this market, because the dominant companies operate under intra-group bilateral contracts with their traders, apart from that future market... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u234	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u235	... and therefore it is necessary that these at least bring a percentage of energy to that market, either through primary energy auctions, or through other mechanisms, because this can do that they can diversify the sources and have much more balanced prices, both in times of high prices and low prices. See, even though we are in a context of high volatility, the prices of futures markets in Spain have stabilized; in fact, they have fallen. For example, on 24 June, the Spanish market was worth EUR 156 megawatt hours, while in Germany it was 289 and in France it was more than 338. All this also because of the Iberian exception. And this is where we have to focus, in this long-term market, for it to have liquidity, because this is one of the real market failures, and this does not depend on Europe. This is where these dominant companies have to be tightened up, because without free competition the consumer will be much more defenceless and, in addition, independent traders have stopped offering fixed prices for lack of liquidity in this market. On the other hand, it is also necessary to work to create a framework and develop legislation in which energy planning is a strategic element in the management and competitiveness of industry and companies, because investments in energy efficiency systems, emission reductions, diversified purchasing management models and self-consumption projects will be key elements in the coming years. It is, of course, necessary to democratise the electricity system. Today, you have given us some summaries of the measures, which we have supported. [[The lady]] You have told us about the detraction of extraordinary benefits to energy, to electricity. We support that measure, Vice-President, but the fact is that that measure had to be nuanced by another decree, because it did not take into account the harmful effects it had on companies, on industry and also did not take into account the conditions that Europe established. In this sense, you have told us today that this measure has been extended in the Saturday decree - and it is true - and you have also told us about a possible tax on electricians, gas companies and oil companies on the fallen profits from the sky. For us, it is true that, at this exceptional juncture, these companies are obtaining benefits that they did not expect, much higher margins that end up moving directly to families and businesses. That is why - and so Europe also says - we understand that in an exceptional situation a deduction from these benefits can be adopted - as they have done in other countries. I would like to say that in this matter there is no need for vavenes, for reflection, which is addressed with the utmost guarantees, in accordance with the requirements and limitations imposed by Europe, so as not to be afraid of wrong decisions and which we later end up paying on the invoice, as we are already doing. A tax which, in our view, should perhaps be on the difference in profits, because if not, there is a risk that it will be committed twice for the same fact; that it will be temporary and, why not, that it will be dialogue with the parties concerned, so as not to put at risk public-private investments that today become essential to transform the economic model and collected in the recovery and resilience programme. And it's always better to have those affected by allies than not confrontation. Of course, I want to make it clear that this collection has to be in order to alleviate the crisis in which we are immersed, to help families and SMEs, who really need it and not for other people, to finance public policies responsibly and in solidarity in order to deal with the consequences of the war in Ukraine. Perhaps it should be able to be activated when there are abrupt conditions in the markets. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u237	Thank you, President. Get out of the way. Good afternoon. She said the Vice-President in her speech or, more than she said, she appealed to us for the need to apply the sense of State. It calls on all of us to use the sense of state. Don't take it wrong that you declined that possibility. In contrast or as a counteroffer, we will offer you common sense with a certain class perspective on what we believe is a pressing problem for people. José Luis Sampedro said that there are two kinds of economists: those who want to make the rich richer and those who want to make the poor poorer. It seems that that impulse exists in every decision of the Government, it seems that you have tried to find the philosophical stone that will enable you to compensate for these two economic visions, that of making the rich and the less poor richer the poor. And that's what explains the timid steps they're taking. In any case - and unfortunately - their mission to reconcile these two possibilities, that the rich are richer and the poor less poor, has not been effective. And it's not because we and we say it, it's because the data tells it. According to data from the National Institute of Statistics, in 2021 the population at risk of poverty in the Spanish State reached 27.8% of the population. To land in more specific numbers, 13187 096 people, i.e. 1 out of 4 more, because of those who are probably none here reaches this possibility, then the rate goes up outside. But there is more, the National Institute of Statistics itself says that the severe material and social shortage already reaches 8.3% of the population of the Spanish State, 3,937,154 people. Indicators for determining who is in this situation of severe material and social deprivation include, for example, that of home temperature. And while that happens, while this harsh reality plagues us, we find that the rich have more and more money, that three of the big electric companies are among the seven companies of IBEX 35 that earn the most in 2022; they have an operating profit of 31.5 billion euros. The net profits in the year 2021 divided by company in the field of energy this time are quite clear: Iberdrola, 3885 million euros; Endesa, 1902 million euros; Naturgy, 1214 million euros; BP, 6631 million euros; Repsol, 2499 million euros; Cepsa, 661 million euros. In the first quarter of 2022 Repsol has won twice as much as in the same period of 2021. All this bonus by means of, then it seems that neither has this served to curb the profits of large companies. What is the conclusion that we have reached? For, despite the efforts of the Government, the rich are becoming richer and the poor are becoming poorer, unfortunately. And all that in a context of severe inflation; we are now at 10.2%, as you have recalled, the largest in thirty-five years, and what this government seems to propose to us is an income pact, which, speaking clearly and for us to understand the whole world, is a wage restraint so that they do not trigger inflation. Why do we not pose ourselves with a containment of the profits of large companies, which have been fired for years, but decades, and in recent years in a scandalous way? Because everything also seems to indicate that the fuels will continue to rise. It is not unreasonable to think of the 3 euros/litre for this summer. Probably what is now a joke becomes a reality; the one who faces a poster of the price of fuels says that of: respect the cyclists, because soon you will be one of them. I will not deny the capacities of the Iberian exception or the goodness of the Iberian exception, it has them, but they are limited. In short, it is to cover the sun with a finger. Because energy oligopolies, both light and fuel, continue to earn money. Moreover, the only thing that changes is who earns the money; now it seems that the best friends of Spain are making more money at our expense now, which are Morocco and the United States, because the war nobody wants it, but to some is coming better than to others, and that the United States sells the gas at the price that it sells is also a reality to be seen, because someone in this war is probably making some kind of profit. That is why we demand again - and it is not the first, and I am certainly tired of repeating it - that much more be done, because the rise in prices and the dearth of life has historically been one of the main causes of protest and popular uprising. I told him on one occasion and I say it to him now: I trust that you want to do this to improve the lives of the popular classes, but if there is not even that will, do it for a matter of the Government's own survival, because, as I tell you, nothing lifts up more wings and shakes the masses than a continual increase in life. We tell you honestly, we believe that much more needs to be done, because every time this government has considered itself as a measure, for example, to lower taxes, what has electric oligopoly done? Raise the price of the megawatt hour. What happened? For there has been less state-gathering - despite all they say that the state has been raised from the banks on the right -, that there has been more profits for companies - and that is clear from the data I have already provided - and that in the end the consumer continues to pay and drown in a subsistence economy. And what can be done? Well, several things, I'll propose three. The first is market intervention. We no longer say it just on the benches of the left or the radical left, but also says Ursula von der Leyen, who has never stepped on a bench of the left or the radical left. She says that the market does not work and that the marginalist system must be brought to an end; let us do so. There is nothing more than comparing what gasoline was worth, for example, on 7 January 2021 and what it was worth on 12 June 2022 to check that the price escalation in fuel was already taking place before even the war. I am not saying that the war has not aggravated it, but in any case, the war has not provoked it, but has been through a reality that was already high. Last month Brent's barrel dropped from 123 euros to 109 in fifteen days and gasoline in those fifteen days went up. Who can explain that? Didn't they say the market regulated itself? Oil companies raise prices almost at a time; electricity companies almost charge the same price, and banks almost charge the same fees. Could we talk about cartels, could we talk about a market that is self-regulating alone, could we even talk about a free market, when there are these confluence rules to continue expressing citizens? Honestly, we think we're talking lobbies. Maybe Rodrigo Rato was right - I don't know if he was right about this or only about this - when he was saying that: it's the market, friend. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u239	The second possibility could be to recover or nationalize strategic sectors. Hugo Chávez used to say it a long time ago with 'exploit', but it's just that now Macron, who I don't think has become chavista, has been raising it. Put in a search engine: Macron nationalization, and you will see what Macron is proposing for the French state: nationalizing companies. And as you were talking about social justice, let me take a look at the recent past of the Spanish state to see how we support that need for nationalization. In 1985 there were 130 public enterprises in the Spanish State; today there are 16. On the stock exchange, on the same dates, public enterprises in 1985 weighed around 16.62 % of the stock exchange value, now weigh less than 0.30 %. Among those companies - so no one thinks we're talking about ethereals - there were companies like Gas Natural, Repsol Endesa or Red Eléctrica, which seems to have something to do with this issue that concerns us. Spanish public enterprises now account for 1.9% of gross domestic product. Some people will think that this is normal in Europe and that, therefore, there is nothing to object to, but if you look at Europe, you will see that public enterprises in Italy weigh 12.4 % of their GDP; that in France they weigh 12.1 % of their GDP; that in Belgium they weigh 28 % of their GDP; that in Sweden they weigh 24.7 % of their GDP; and that even in the worst of the scenarios or in the worst of the public power data in GDP, we find ourselves in the United Kingdom, which gets them to weigh 4.5 %, that is, almost three times more than those of the Spanish State. Because, in short, the sale of these companies was not only a small business for those who bought them at a balance price, nor for those who found them comfortable through a revolving door leaving politics to the board of directors, it was also the possibility of closing the door to the state to intervene in a determined way in the market; it is to eschew public resources, vampireize and hostage citizens and eliminate public power to intervene in the market. And this can be done, it is nothing crazy, 33 of the 51 largest companies in the world of the electricity or energy sector are state-controlled; there are in France, in the United States, in the Netherlands, in Sweden, in Australia, in Italy, in Switzerland or in Japan. The OECD itself says that there is evidence of positive effects when it comes to lowering prices - I do not say that, says the OECD -. But there is another third possibility, perhaps more within your reach, which is to tax energy companies and from now on. Why wait until 2023 when the energy companies of IBEX 35 have multiplied by three their profits in 2021. You can follow the trail of Italy, with 25% tax on the profits from the sky; that of Belgium, which is proposing to install it; or that of the United Kingdom, again with 25% tax on the profits of oil and gas companies. And they have to do it despite attempts to boycott them from big companies. Surely, Iberdrola, Endesa or EDP will continue to press Brussels. It's likely that even Garamendi intends to press. He has already done so; a few days ago he was talking about the negative solution that would be to raise taxes to the electrics quoting, or misquoting, I would say, Bertolt Brecht, because he attributed a phrase that is Martin Niemöller's, which is the one that we have all heard once of: first they came for the communists and I did nothing, and... as follows. I recommend that you respond to Garamendi with another appointment - this is true - of Bertolt Brecht, who says: 'Why don't you want to pay? We read that you make yourselves richer every day.' Either they govern for the citizenry and get rid of the blackmail of the companies, or they will succumb to the blackmail of the electrics themselves. A Member of the Socialist Group said at the point before this something with which I agree and which, as she said, was the position of the PSOE: Power is not in the big corporations, it is in the people. Do it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u240	Thank you, Mr. Matute. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which in this turn accumulates its turn of reply, Mr Botran Pahissa first has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u241	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, the question of the price of energy, in this case gas, is a problem. Finding it has been a good decision, although it does not seem to be giving the desired results. I also support all the previous interventions calling for the end of the marginalist market and pointing to the enormous benefits of energy oligopoly. The price problem, as I say, is a problem in itself, but it is also the symptom of a larger problem, because the causes of gas price increases are not short-term - as much has been stressed in his intervention pointing to the Russian war against Ukraine - but structural, and this seems that no government - nor Spanish - is taking it sufficiently seriously. Not only the cost of gas, but also of fossil fuels, and especially we see it in the cost of diesel. The sensation is similar to the first steps and how it was acquiring dimensions of the coronavirus pandemic. We are receiving local news, scattered, remote, and, in this way, the feeling is that responsibility is less and the problem is minimized. However, all this news leads to the root of the same problem. I take some examples from the last week, from the last seven days. For example, this Monday the Japanese Government asked the people of Tokyo not to put too much air conditioning because there is a heat wave going on and the Japanese electricity grid is almost no longer up to the limit. Two other examples that you have already cited. Last Sunday, the three main French energy companies, through their managers, signed a public letter calling on French society to reduce fuel, electricity and gas consumption. And the other example has also been mentioned by you. A week ago, Germany entered phase 2 of an emergency plan that has three phases, i.e. moving towards the extreme emergency phase, as it is seen without gas reserves in the short term. We could also cite the trucker strike that Argentina has been suffering last week, or the protests that exist in Ecuador for the increase in the price of fuels and fossil fuels in general. The biggest problem I am referring to is the scarcity of the limits of the planet, of the limits of a growth based on fossil fuels, of which we have been aware for fifty years now, with a very famous report, very cited, but always repugnant by capitalist economic policies. This faces us at a time of energy decline. There's no other way out. The end of fossil fuels faces a time of energy decline. At this point, there is no option between decrease or non-decrease, the dilemma is who should decrease and where it starts. You're already taking a path, which is the worst you could take, which is that others decrease and save anyone you can. That would be the summary. The collapse of States such as Sri Lanka or Laos does not seem to go with us; that is, that is far away and it will be that they have done wrong. In the meantime, we, of course, have a NATO summit and an increase in military budgets, which is a very clear message, which is to save anyone. Indeed, this is about saving anyone who can. This is the worst solution. The only democratic and future solution for humanity as a whole, not to save those who go faster, is a planned and fair growth, fair between countries and fair between classes. I mean, it decreases who has the most, who has the most accumulated. That is nothing but the energy dimension of a great historical question, such as the redistribution of wealth. I'm finishing up. Limiting the price is a correct measure - I end where it started - and it must be extended to other goods in order to prevent inflation from further impoverishing us. But given that we are talking about energy, fossil fuels, finite resources, we must think, as the news I mentioned in my speech pointed out, about energy rationing. That is to say, the issues you have mentioned - savings, storage, more renewables, etc. - are necessary but they are patches, and they are patches because what we are talking about is the end of fossil fuels and, given this, it is only possible to start planning and rationing energy. That is why the only question, the only one that left you and I hope you will be well answered, is whether you are thinking of some kind of measures for this energy rationing and what they would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u243	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, thirdly, the management of the two very important matters which are the responsibility of your ministry is resulting in a huge disaster for Spain and, in particular, for Asturias. You have failed with strept in demographic policy, and in the energy issue you have dragged the whole of Spanish society into impoverishment at the most expensive prices in history, and that which Pedro Sánchez solemnly committed here, in the investiture debate, his purpose to reduce the bill. One of the most decisive causes in the state of inflation - today at 10.2% - is precisely the energy factor, but to this enormous fall of thirty-seven years we have not come by chance. At the end of 2018, the government put an end to coal mining, shut down wells and farms and shut down power generation power plants, leaving Spain without a guarantee of supply, more still and the basins engaged in its desertification. Now, unlike other European countries like Germany, the Netherlands and Austria, which are using coal as never before to control energy costs and prevent the collapse of their industry, our government has to buy energy sources abroad, with the aggravating fact that Spain has lost its preferred position with Algeria, our main gas supplier. By the way, yesterday the Government took the first step towards the entry into service, albeit in half, of the magnificent regasification plant at El Musel, in Asturias. Ten years out of use, ten. And speaking of the port of El Musel and fossil fuels, last week another Russian ship arrived loaded with coal sprinkled with Ukrainian blood. Socialist solidarity by removing and putting. Madam Minister, the unjustified optimism of your appearance does not correspond to the perception of the citizens. I assume you are informed of the recent barometers of opinion, which reveal that seven out of ten Spaniards suspend the government's attempts to lower the price of light. I repeat: seven out of ten suspend their management. You do, however, declare yourself an inspiring source for the whole of the European Union with the Iberian exception. Mrs Ribera, we must have a fight to claim here today from all the Member States, and this is what a government has called for, which has made the assault on reference institutions and bodies - the case of Indra, the National Institute of Statistics or the Office of the Attorney General of the State - a pattern of conduct. I am afraid that the change that has just been announced in order to calculate the cost of regulated energy responds to this anti-democratic practice of manipulating data in line with the political interests of the government of Pedro Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamentalist echo of Vice-President Ribera, who has just arrived in office, rejects the magnificent report drawn up by a committee of experts on energy transition, freely proposed by all the parliamentary groups, including the Socialist Group. We are now at the door of a rationing, and a substantial part of the energy mix depends on third countries at the price they set us, a circumstance that has already triggered our trade deficit at 2008 levels, where, as will be recalled, the government also presided over another socialist, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, who ended up leaving the economy and employment made an erial, with Spain about to be rescued and, in fact, we gave up part of our sovereignty and changed quickly and running Article 135 of the Constitution, with my vote against. I conclude, Madam President, by reiterating that the family economy is grieving, that the industry is experiencing the present with great concern and fears of paralysis and that, in view of the historic diplomatic error of the Sahara, other countries have already taken advantage of it, while our Government consolidates the tax grab on the Spaniards and ignores the suffocation of many economic sectors that are producing at a loss. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u244	Thank you, Mr. Martínez. Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u245	President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the specialized press says that in the first fifteen days of application of the gas cap the price of electricity for the consumer, the PVPC, has fallen by 15%. It is not bad news, since the price of electricity has grown sharply in the last eighteen months and has been fired with the war in Ukraine. It has had our support in trying to cover the price of gas and it also counts, if it tries decisively, to reform in depth and make the marginalist model used in the allocation of electricity prices more transparent. But, apart from all this, it is necessary to put forward a far-reaching reflection on this issue, which we want to transfer to the Government and to all the parliamentary forces. To decarbonize the economy, to curb climate change, we cannot reduce the energy transition to a process of replacing the technology with which electricity is produced. If that is the only approach, the effects can already be felt by the 18 million people who currently pay for electricity receipts: the formation of an oligopoly that, because of its high profitability, attracts investment funds and controls the entire sector, disappears competition and imposes speculative and arbitrary prices on consumers. The European Union and international organisations have pointed out that it is an essential feature of the energy transition to change this centralized model of large enterprises, which build large power plants that colonize the rural environment, which concentrate on the market and production; a change to a decentralized model in which citizens assume a role in what has been called prosumers, that is, consumers who also produce. Surprisingly, this perspective is almost excluded from the legislation and energy policy that is being discussed in Parliament. In order to reduce the price of electricity in a structural and not only cyclical way, we must bet, without doubt, on the distributed generation and adopting the legal reforms that are necessary in the Electricity Sector Act and in the decrees that develop the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan. We have therefore tabled dozens of amendments in favour of the distributed generation, in favour of self-consumption, to achieve management and control over the deployment of renewables in the draft law on self-consumption, but curiously the parliamentary process is stopped. The same applies to the amendments to the draft law deriving from Decree 6/2022, so that acceleration does not prevent environmental assessment with public participation, with amendments to democratize access to energy and strengthen in Spain the figure of the prosumer, which would make the energy transition real, such as amendments not to apply forced expropriation in the deployment of renewables dominated by large companies. We have also proposed in these amendments the boost of storage through a figure which is the storage of municipal control electricity, so that municipal storage organized neighborhood to neighborhood boosts the role of citizens' prosumer. But all this parliamentary discussion is stalled. Moreover, we propose another more immediate step for decrees 6 and 11 of 2022. Review in depth the environmental zoning map for the deployment of renewable energies published by MITECO on 9 May, which contains some errors in the types of protection - errors that are only detected or observed when a more detailed scale is used - and builds an environmental zoning map that includes a classification of suitable areas to accommodate these renewable facilities. I mean, let's turn it around, let's say where you can and not where there are different degrees of condition, if the condition is low, medium, high or very high. That map should be well done and rigorous in its decisions. To be rigorous, this zoning of suitability is a planning that obviously requires a prior, rigorous and transparent strategic environmental assessment. From this premise, and with the impetus of the distributed generation, the energy transition could already be accelerated to the goal that we had set ourselves as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u247	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before we begin, I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Government for the explanations she has given us today during her speech, because I believe that they have been very clear on such a complex issue as the measures that the Government has been taking to curb the energy crisis that is being experienced at global level. I would also like to thank her, the President and the entire Government that have been taking these measures, which have served to protect the citizens of this country from the global situation. [[Applauds]] Today we are talking about the mechanism of the Iberian exception, from the top to the gas, and I think the first thing to say about the Iberian exception, from the top to the gas, is that it is working, and it is working well. I have heard during this debate all kinds of arguments, all kinds of criticisms, but the reality is that the facts are very clumsy and they are usually the best to disassemble the lies. And the reality is this: each and every day since this mechanism has been in operation, since June 15, electricity in this country - each and every day - has been cheaper than it would have been without this mechanism. Everyone. Moreover, in France, in Germany, in Austria, in Italy, in all countries - in all - electricity prices have been rising since June 15, the day the gas cap mechanism was put in place. And in Spain, on the other hand, they've been coming down since that day. These are made, they are clumsy and disassemble their lies very well. Today the price of electricity in Spain is 132 euros the megawatt hour; in France it is 360 euros the megawatt hour. On the 14th, the day before the mechanism came into operation, the price in Spain was higher than in France, it was higher than in Germany, it was higher than in Italy. Today, taking into account even the compensation they complain about and talk about, in Spain the price of electricity is 190 euros, almost half the price that in France. Please stop using the usual lie, the subsidy to France; there is no subsidy and it is offset by congestion rents. If you don't know what it is, look for it, it won't cost you much to find it. [[Applauds]] This is not a short-term issue, it is not a day's flower, this is a trend; it is a trend because the markets for futures - who know what they are doing - by the end of this year are placing the prices of Spain in the environment of the 150 euros the megawatt hour. In France - and I say France because it is the country that we have next door, with which we are constantly comparing ourselves - those future prices are exceeding 700 euros the megawatt; 150 against 700. This is the reality. Mrs. Borrás, who I don't know if she's around here, said before that 'data kills story'. Well, look, here's the data, and this ends all the story they want to bring us. [[Applauds]] And since I knew that they were going to come here with lies, with falsehoods, with incorrect data or simply without doing their homework, I bothered this morning to calculate what the gas cap might have meant by saving; they are, rounded figures, taking daily averages, but they can serve us to make a good idea: 300 million euros in fifteen days, including all the compensations, under the worst possible conditions; with low renewable production, in the middle of a heat wave,300. It's very easy to calculate, really, you could have done it. For these fifteen days are thirty multiplications, fifteen subtractions and a sum. That's what a primary child does. [[Applauds]] You could have done it, and then you wouldn't have come up here to say that the mechanism isn't working. [[Applauds]] The gas cap is one more of the many measures the Government has put in place over the past year to address the situation we are experiencing in the energy sector. I have said it before, I repeat it now and I will repeat it as many times as it takes: it is a measure that works. And that is why, precisely because it works, other countries of the European Union, like Italy, are already thinking of deploying similar measures, because the reality, as much as it hurts them, is that Spain is leading the actions of the European Union to tackle the energy problems we are experiencing. Because putting a stop to the price of gas to produce electricity is a measure that, no matter how hard it is to say otherwise, works. We hope that the European Commission will also understand the importance - as this Government has claimed - of reviewing the internal electricity market, because it seems obvious that the current pricing system is the most appropriate for the situation we are experiencing, and this is a position that the Spanish Government has been defending for a long time within the European Union. And while the government chaired by Pedro Sánchez leads these proposals in Europe, while we lead the position of the need for recovery funds after the pandemic, while President Sánchez led the position of the Iberian exception, from the top to the gas, while we continue to lead the search for resolutions for this crisis, to what has he devoted himself to the People's Party? What has he been doing? At the time, to travel through Europe to try to discredit Spain, and here to try to torpedo all the measures that, as I repeat, are working. [[Applauds]] The People's Party bases its policy on refusing, on refusing everything; they think that with this they oppose the Government, when what they are really doing is opposition to the country, their country, as much as ours. They remain in the idea that everything that goes wrong with Spain and the Spaniards will benefit them; I suppose that is why they have decided to turn their backs on the citizens of this country. They have decided to oppose any measure that might benefit the Spaniards, and they do so on every occasion they have: they have opposed the tax rebates that the Government has carried out on electricity, they have opposed all the protective measures, they have opposed all the measures that have served to contain the price escalation that we are experiencing and they have not supported any initiative by this Government, simply because they came from this Government. It is funny because it is constantly repeated in the debate by the right and the right; it says that our measures are ideological. You think telling us they're ideological is gonna offend us or insult us? Of course not. Of course they're ideological, absolutely! Pure and hard left ideology: people first, protect the most vulnerable, justice, equality, solidarity. [[Applauds]] That's our ideology, that's our principles. Don't you like them? Look somewhere else, because they're the only ones we have and they're the ones we're always going to defend. It makes me funny when they talk about ideology, because really the most blind is by their ideology - the ideology of the right - are the right and the ultra-right, incapable, absolutely incapable, physically incapable of voting measures that objective and clearly benefit the whole of the citizenry - they try sometimes, but they must give them cramp, it is something they carry inside the body - simply because they are proposed by a left-wing government. And from VOX we do not expect anything; it has no proposals beyond its own prejudices or comment on yesterday's NATO dinner menu. But of you, of the People's Party, one would expect a little more: sense of state - you have said here -, common sense, what I know, some sense, whatever. But we see that no, they're not going to find him and we're going to have to keep waiting for them to sit down. Look, the government will continue to work for the citizenry; from the beginning it is what it has been doing and it will do until the end: it will continue to work for the Spaniards and for the Spaniards, and it will continue to work to defend those who need to be defended most; it will continue to apply measures like these, measures that work and that, despite the difficulty of the situation, despite the right, despite what is happening around us, are thought by and for the citizenry, to prevent the middle classes and the working classes from bearing the burden of this crisis, contrary to what you did when you were at the helm of the government, and we will do it with ideology, yes, sir, with ideology, and we are not ashamed of it because it is what we believe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. I give the floor to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u249	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for all the advice and comments that you have moved with the will to improve the capacity for reaction at a particularly difficult time and that, indeed, everything points out that, unfortunately, it will continue to accompany us for some time. I will comment on the issues that seem to me to be more significant, starting by recalling some of the premises that I think are more important to have in mind to be sure that we are all talking about the same thing, because if we are not all talking about the same thing, it is much more difficult to understand. First premise. Indeed, climate change is a great concern; it is a great concern on all fronts, you eat what is eaten at the official dinners of international conferences in this country; and it is a great concern that requires a profound transformation of our energy system and our productive system, and not doing so would generate enormous problems, enormous costs and enormous suffering. Working to make this happen is something different from getting medals or signing the headlines, and I remember this about something that I haven't commented on for a long time, but that on a day like today it's worth remembering. When we arrived at the Government, in June 2018, the main instrument to understand what was the strategic orientation of this country in terms of energy and climate did not exist because no one had bothered the Government to think that was important. Conversely, there are laws that prohibit the reasonable development of renewables, that generate an unorthodox imposition of self-consumption and photovoltaics, and that hinder the orderly transformation of the energy system, even under market conditions. I remember well the comments of the then Minister of Energy on how it was enough to apply an Excel table, i.e., regardless of listening, building or seeking shared solutions or also finding solutions for workers from sectors who have long contributed to our country, for many years, in terms of prosperity and improvement, and who saw that their field of work was undergoing very profound changes. So, first premise: I am not going to comment disqualifying around the denial of the reality of climate change, and I do understand that the European project around this idea is fundamental. The second question is that it is key, within these premises, to understand that it is very difficult to imagine that a single government, a single actor, can alter the clumsiness of international commodity markets. Developments in gas prices, such as developments in copper, oil or coal prices, can be mitigated in the field of domestic policies. It is difficult to think that the price of gas, coal or raw materials can be intervened internationally, and in complicated circumstances what matters, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has rightly pointed out, is the reaction capacity, criteria and priorities that the Government applies in dealing with difficult, critical situations. We're clear on how we want to do it. We want to do so by protecting people, the vulnerable, the middle class and the productive sectors, and this has been the spirit with which we have been taking a list of measures and with which we will continue to do so in time to come. The third consideration is that of the great importance of being in Europe and working on shared responses, respecting the law, respecting European law. Respect for European law, respect for the law, respect for the Constitution also means, at times, having to be patient with regard to how rules are adopted, for example, to create new taxes or how it is ensured that market intervention is compatible or authorized by whoever is competent, in this case the European Union. Another premise that I think is important is to invite you to come to the most relevant sources of information, because I believe that this is a transparent government and your institutions are, too. Therefore, before you talk about the wholesale market price or the price of the PVPC tariff once the gas adjustment has been introduced, you should know that every day we publish the sheet with all this data. Lady Citizen Spokesman, we don't hide anything. The wholesale market price across Europe, the wholesale market price in Spain plus gas adjustment, the wholesale market price if there had been no Iberian mechanism and future prices for the coming quarters of the year and year 2023 are available, transparent and with color map to make it look good. There is also very relevant information for something else that has been mentioned, and it is the export and import balances of electricity with our neighbours, with France, with Portugal and with Morocco. They're on the Web site. I will tell you that, in what we have been doing since 2022, every month, less February, Spain has exported much more electricity to France than it has imported. It has been a net export balance, as I tell you, since January 2022. Moreover, 440 megawatt hours were exported in January; 271 in March; 810 in April; 412 in May; and 272 in June. In other words, in June we are exporting less than what has been exported every month of this year, I insist, except February. In spite of everything, it has indeed been an export balance; and it has been an export balance because of another issue that they do not speak of, although some have mentioned it in passing in their intervention, and it is that twenty-nine of the fifty-six nuclear power plants operating in France are stopped for security reasons, that is, they need to import all the electricity they are capable of. And this, fortunately for them, is possible thanks, precisely, to the interconnections, which in Spain are far below what they should be, but because of their ease in being able to rely on electricity generated in third countries they are solved by an enormously complicated ballot that is already being alerted to next autumn and next winter, and explains why the future of electricity for the fourth quarter in France is at more than 700 euros the megawatt hour, and this is simply dramatic, dramatic. So you have information about the evolution of prices available on the ministry's website, which, in fact, has been each and every day cheaper than it would have been in the absence of the mechanism, and much cheaper than what happens in the countries of our environment. And you have information about the importing and exporting balance with Morocco, Portugal and France on the Web site. That is why you do not feel bored, Mrs Citizens' spokesman, for having listened to this intervention, with invitation from you, by the way, to talk about the Iberian exception, because fortunately we have an Iberian exception that operates as a reinsurance at a particularly complex time for all consumers and, in particular, for Spanish and Portuguese consumers. I would like, from here on, to make some substantive comments on issues that have been raised. With the Commission we negotiated four key points: the overall design of the mechanism, whether it was possible or not to introduce a cap; what was the reasonable evolution of that cap; what was the mechanism that allowed the actual cost of gas to be paid, because logically the European Commission would not have allowed the intervention of the Government of Spain and the Government of Portugal to impose sales at losses; and, indeed, we also cite the possibility of building a bubble that would allow double cassation. The Commission considered it reasonable not to introduce this bubble, precisely for security reasons such as those I am referring to, and in return it did something which we thought was extremely convenient for Spanish and Iberian consumers, which is to allow this exception to work not three months, not six months, but twelve months. They have also raised other issues that I believe are important, the relationship with interconnections and the construction of interconnections with France; a construction that normally materializes the legislature after the time at which the agreement took place, and we find a major disagreement with regard to the layout of the underwater cable of the Gulf of Biscay, which I believe is fortunately outdated and allows us to connect Spain with Capbreton. There are two other interconnections planned through the Pyrenees in the field of electricity and the activation of a gas interconnection, which would be added to the two already existing, provided that three conditions are given which we believe are very important and which go beyond the negative cost-benefit analysis made by the Commission, when it was Commissioner responsible for the sector Mr Cañete, with regard to the feasibility of the interconnection between Spain and Portugal through the Catalan Pyrenees. The conditions are obvious: it cannot entail an additional cost for Spanish gas consumers, whose supply security they are paying for a very important regasifier plant; it must be an infrastructure prepared for the forty or fifty years of useful life that it can have, that is, it must be prepared to withstand the different pressure and the different conditions of transporting hydrogen; and it must be reasonably agreed with the construction on the other side of the Pyrenees of that part of the pipeline that allows us to connect with the knot of the trunk gas network for the rest of Europe. There have also been comments on cogeneration. It gives me great satisfaction to say that during July the order and the resolution will be activated which will allow us, as provided for by the Community regime, to call for a competitive system in order to be able to fix the specific remuneration, given the huge mismatch that has occurred between the price at which the remuneration of gas is determined and the price at which natural gas has evolved on the international markets. Nevertheless, let me once again comment on the evolution of gas prices, to manage this very complicated situation, with some signs of how in all difficult circumstances the situation of the Iberian peninsula is somewhat better, as the gas price references in the Iberian gas market have a differential with the Dutch market price of more than 24 euros per megawatt hour. It has been decoupled in a very significant, very important way in favour of the Iberian market. They are, of course, prices that mark private operators, those who maintain the contractual commercial relations of gas sales, but again the expectation and the solvency that our market, that of the Iberian peninsula, has the capacity to accommodate and store and serves as an important reference for large operators, also shows in price signals a positive differential with the rest of the citizens and companies operating in Europe. There have been other relevant comments, one of them on the developments of the climate change law. Mr Capdevila, I would like to say that since the adoption of the climate change law, important milestones provided for in this rule have been achieved, which we believe is a great opportunity for the continuous transformation of our country's economy and society. Risk-preventing milestones, which allow us to prepare and allow us to anticipate the major trends in which we will have to invest and work in the coming years, not only in terms of quantified targets for 2030 and 2050, where we already have the planning to comply with them, as mandated by law, but also in other key aspects concerning the adaptation to climate change and the application of the premises around the operation and the conclusions of the citizens' assembly, which I hope will be known soon; the development of the law on waste and contaminated soils - I take advantage of it to reassure you, because that letter of termination of the premises referred to on 28 January, with regard to the possible non-compliance with Directive 2019/904, has been transposed into this law on waste and contaminated soils, which has already entered into force, Law 7/2022-; provisions in the field of bio-suppressions and bio-suppressions, which are fundamental in terms of being able to work and generating the professional capacities to integrate climate issues; urgent provisions in the field of energy for the promotion of solar mobility, self-conservicing, self-conserving, self-conservicing, and alternative energy management arrangements; Together with the regulation on cogeneration, it will indeed be a revulsive that will also allow the needle to move with regard to the consumption of gas for industrial use; the committee of experts to draw up the White Paper on tax reform, which you know and, as I say, the key modification of the regulation of electricity markets in multiple dimensions. In short, of the more than sixty regulatory developments covered by the law, in the first year we have approved twenty-two and there are nine pending, with an expected date of entry into force in the second half of 2022, complying with that which had the power to be operational by one year. Another issue that I think is important is the deployment of self-consumption, local energy communities and small installations. I don't think it's the same. We need an orderly growth of our ability to generate electricity from renewable sources, with small installations, with installations in which it is designed directly, at first, for self-consumption, either through an energy community, or for particular self-consumption, and doing so in a way compatible with the resilience of the network, with the reduction of risks, requires being cautious in the extent and distance tolerated with respect to the point of consumption, and that is and not the other explanation why this limitation has been introduced in the distance. However, Mr Capdevila, you know that we are looking forward to a much more proactive attitude by the Government of the Generalitat in this regard, in line with the electricity consumption in Catalonia and the need, therefore, for a much bolder deployment of renewables in your territory. There have been other important issues, such as, for example, how we can activate the coefficients to facilitate dynamic coefficients in the area of self-consumption, something about which the CNMC opened a public information process in March, so we trust that it can be resolved immediately to enable those four months of adaptation of the different distribution companies and that the self-consumers determine what the timetables for which they decide are. It is also relevant to consider what happens to infra-marginal auctions - some of you have done so - infra-marginal auctions, which must be an applicable measure, with all due caution, in order to prevent precisely the dismantling of positions. One of the elements that we have before the European Commission in relation to the defence of the Iberian mechanism had to do precisely - it pointed out before - with the little competition that exists on our market, little competition that results in the need to introduce measures so that it is not only the large ones that maintain their positions, little competition that results in a limitation that we confirm when we take out the possibility of modifying the regulated PVPC tariff in advance. That is why, as I pointed out in my first speech, but I now take the opportunity to stress again, the possibility of different, lower, present and future price references, facilitates precisely this reform, a question which the European Commission considered not only congruent, but very relevant. Some of the additional issues that have been raised, which I also believe are important in a debate like this, are those relating to contingency plans, where, in fact, one of the questions that we could ask ourselves is, in addition to conventional measures that allow us to supply one supplier with another, in addition to strengthened conventional measures in terms of savings and efficiency, demand reduction, demand management, capital, in any case, we also need to think about what would happen if we had to prioritize access to resources in favour of some or other uses. We are convinced that Spain's position is safer, more solvent, and that what we have to face is, above all, a question of price. But, indeed, it is also vital to be prepared for circumstances that can get complicated in the coming months. We expect, in any case, the proposals, the recommendations made by the European Commission in this respect, while we prepare internally the proposals that we will put before the Government for debate and approval by the Council of Ministers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u250	A moment, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a constant rumor with which it is sometimes difficult to listen to the Vice-President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u251	The last comment I would like to make on the issues that have been raised is the fundamental thing that it turns out that, in the context of the recovery plan, we can activate all the measures that will allow us to reinforce this anticipation of the energy transition on different fronts, and this requires a very remarkable administrative effort, but not only of the General Administration of the State; it requires a remarkable effort by autonomous communities and municipalities. It is true that what happens about the deployment of renewables, how it can be ensured that the essential deployment of renewables in the territory is balanced with the protection of biodiversity and with the protection of the social interests of the inhabitants, of the local neighbours. These issues that arise through the environmental impact assessment mechanisms require, as I say, an initial design from the very beginning by developers that takes into account the concern and positive social impact on the territory, a field in which we still have a lot to apply, much to learn, but in which we are also guaranteed and safe and for which, without a doubt, Mr Guitarte, novel ideas, such as that of the storage aggregator in the local energy communities, can be a good proposal to facilitate this connection between the local, the capacity of generation and production at local level, and the intermediation, the facilitation, which can take place through regulation. These are some of the issues that have been raised and I will be delighted, in the second intervention, to be able to comment on those that, as a result of being lost, have left me out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u252	The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mariscal Anaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u253	Thank you, President. We're not giving up, Madam Vice President. This trick of coming to read a long, tedious, and insubstantial speech after our intervention will not cause us not to continue asking for their appearance. I'm telling you to be quiet. [[Applauds]] Questions I've asked you and you don't answer me. You have collected in what takes the year of hydrocarbon tax plus 676 million euros. Where is your government's fiscal effort? I don't know. He said he dropped the charges, that's right. Who's gonna pay for it? Who's going to pay for it, Madam Vice President? Tell it to the Spaniards. Tell us that you are making a further increase in the tariff deficit that has already left us in your day your esteemed José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the 27 billion euros that we found in 2011. [[Applauds]] I say this because you mention the pool in the rest of the countries, which is true that it is more expensive, but tell the Spaniards what customers are in the pool in the rest of the countries? Say it. Tell me who's in Portugal. It explains that, unlike Spain, vulnerable consumers in Portugal have a fixed price of one year, because there they have taken care of the vulnerable, curiously, a partner of their political formation at European level. You talked about the gas. What do you think of biogas? Do you have anything against biogas, too? And don't tell me about the road map, which is how you now extend the time space, the road map. No, I am asking you what you are going to do with biogas, that is, the use of waste and agricultural waste to obtain a necessary and essential good for the development of our country. Don't tell me about the road map, I'm watching it come. Morocco. This is a warning, and we are getting more serious. As we stand before a government that has no inhibitory factors and that sometimes speaks or does things without thinking - which does not speak well of a ruler, by the way - as a single molecule of Algerian gas crosses the border and enters Morocco, we are cut 10 bcm, a third of the Spanish gas consumption. I'm telling you because it's June 30, I'm in the Congress of Deputies, I'm a representative of the Spanish and I know them, and as I know them, you've changed the course of the tube. It is now possible to export from Spain to Morocco where it was previously only possible to export from Algeria and Morocco to Spain. As you have done without talking to anyone in this House, I warn you: you will be responsible and, above all, Mr Sánchez. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] You say that it was usually exported, but look what has happened, since you approved the exception, we export every day at all hours, but unlike what happened before, now the French get electricity produced with gas cheaper than theirs. [[shows a graph]] That's why they matter, Madam Vice President, because it's cheaper! I have told you, between EUR 1000 and EUR 1500 million in the coming year. [[Applauds]] You say that you are not going to rectify, and the spokesman for the Socialist Group, who is very happy, has said that, but what has to happen in the country if you are going to rectify your energy policy, Mrs Ribera? But what has to happen? How many companies have to close, how many more families are going to be unable to pay the electricity or gas bill? But what do you need to see to stop and stop now? Stop it now! Stop this and rectify! You have to present the national energy and climate plan before the end of the year, and I tell you that you have a chance. Are they going to shut down nuclear power by 2035, yes or no? Yes or no? [[A Member of Parliament: Yes!]] And to those who have said yes, which demonstrates clearly improved energy knowledge, it must be said that 20% of the electricity consumed by our country has this CO2-free source and at a lower price. [[laughter and applause]] I tell you something else: you know as well as I do, because we know you and I both, that it takes three years for fuel and much more for the measures that must be taken to ensure radiological protection and nuclear safety in order to extend the shelf life. Take measures now, he's on time. Don't wait until there's no time left and that's why you have to close. It's over now. If you want to guarantee radiological protection and nuclear safety, approve and complete Villar de Cañas' centralized nuclear fuel storage facility. [[Applauds]] He's got the funds and the capacity. I know your partners won't let you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u254	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u255	The People's Party will support you, because nuclear safety, as with electricity prices and the guarantee of supply, sustainability and maintenance of prices, are above our ideology. We do think of the Spanish, Madam Vice-President. [[Mrs. Moraleja Gómez: There, there!-Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u256	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u257	Thank you, President. Minister, your lifesaver doesn't work either to save you or the Spaniards. Moreover, as has already been said, they are sinking into sectors as important as cogeneration, which has fallen by 50% even though it is an essential technology for industry. In case it were not enough the sticks on the wheels and the constant attacks that this Government is receiving, they are now also attacking its main power source, which is also one of the most efficient. In just two weeks since the application of its wonderful Iberian exception, they have stopped producing 5% of electricity in Spain. The problem does not have it with me, Minister and spokesman of the Socialist Party, they have it with the reality of the data that we have been telling them here by the various Members that we are going through, arguing one by one why their measures do not work. [[Applauds]] They haven't reduced the bill for the light. They lied promising a 20% discount. Where's that discount? Stop telling stories, stop telling us stories here. Where's the discount they promised us? Where is he? It's not; it's just not. By the way, to the socialist deputy upset because he mentioned the diet of the 2030 Agenda, it can be seen that he would have preferred worms, right?, to ceviche and prawns. I would also like to say to the Socialist Party, of course, that we know what congestion rents are. Even if you're very smart, the rest of us also know; in fact, we talked about it last week. You must be more attentive to what is said in this rostrum, that you are being beaten by your minister's bad education. [[Applauds]] But it is also that, once the congestion rents have been discounted, which is what we say, according to the data, the French system continues to pay almost half a million euros a day. Spanish consumers, in fact, are subsidizing energy in France and Portugal. Electrical interconnections with French territory are operating from the start of its energy island to the maximum of its capacity. Portugal has also decreased national production of gas-based electricity because it is supplying it with the energy that imports from Spain, avoiding its consumers paying the compensation of the gas companies because we already pay all the Spanish. It's the first time I've seen, ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit, how a discount increases the final price. To solve the problem is to have a 200 % increase in the wholesale price of electricity compared to a year ago? Is that solving the problem? You, however, as you have indicated, are very satisfied with your measures, and I am not surprised, because considering that you have a President of the Government who considers it a good result to have thirty-seven corpses in the Melilla fence, which is a well-solved one, I am not surprised that it seems a good result to you. [[Applauds]] If thirty-seven corpses, according to your government, is a good result, I don't know what would have been fifty corpses, magnificent, sensational? If they had protected the southern border, as we have been warning them for years, our civilian guards would not be assaulted on a daily basis and we would not have to regret massive flows of illegal immigration that lead to death. You know it and you don't do anything. Once again, VOX was right, just as we warned them. You have caused the biggest energy, economic and social crisis in our country, with consequences that all Spaniards suffer, while you continue to comfortably depreciate our resources and stifle nuclear power. With a completely outdated PIC - which you mentioned - based on an electric power park with a gas at 20 euros, when today it is over 100, and a shutdown of the nuclear park in the midst of this energy crisis that we simply cannot afford. They also despise science and innovation and the mini-nuclears already planned, by the way, all over the planet except in Spain. Three hundred micro-reactors planned in the United States until 2050; others in China, France, the United Kingdom, Canada. Do you know, Minister, that Morocco is also investing in nuclear energy? Rejoice, because within a time Moroccans will also be able to sell us the nuclear energy they generate in their power plants much more expensive than we would, because we will have closed them already. Rejoice, minister, because it seems that this government wants to destroy every productive sector of this country, from oranges to grain and even fuel itself. In Spain we do not even study mononuclears, we paralyze million-dollar farms of natural resources and we do not allow gas to be removed from our soils, because, for what, if we can already buy it much more expensive to Americans, French or Moroccans? In addition, I will tell you one last thing - and I finish -: Spain is the third country in Europe with more mining resources, but they are not exploited by ecological pressures.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u258	You must finish, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u259	It's over, Mr. President. We have thirty millionaire mining projects in Spain totally paralyzed, which bring us employment, wealth and energy sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u260	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u261	I ask you seriously, minister, and I'm done: do you pay a fee for giving our resources to other countries or is there something you want to explain to us? Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u262	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I hardly ever agree with Mr Mariscal and I honor him with it, as he certainly does with the same, but I agree that the sleep, its tone and its sufficiency when it comes to explaining... Excuse me? [[Mrs Lastra Fernández utters words that are not perceived]] [[Mrs. Lastra Fernández repronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u264	Go on, please. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u265	I beg your protection, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u266	Yes, I have, I have told you to continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u267	It is that it does not give for many joys the theme; it does not give for many joys. Madam Minister, I almost prefer you not to answer me, as you have done in many cases, to answer absolutely vague things to me or to miss you to the truth. Perhaps because I did not pronounce the number of the Internal Market Directive, 944/2019, which gave Spain time until 31 December 2021. And, yes, you received a formal letter on 19 May, you have already completed two months and we do not know if you have answered it. I have asked you how much this is going to cost us and when you intend to solve that which only very partially must have resolved in the waste law, of which I am also honored to be a spokesman. Prices. Apart from comparing wholesale markets, why don't we compare retail markets? Maybe we'd have another perspective. Self-consumption and communities, two kilometers, yes or no? When, minister? Occasions we've had. Infra-marginal auctions, yes or no, minister? For when? Effective separation of activity between integrated groups, I think that's the lamb's mother. If you don't agree, tell me. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u269	Thank you, President. Vice President, that you sell the gas top as an absolute success is because you take us for fools. That's what I told you in my previous speech. That's right, and I'm going to tell you why. This Government spends only its efforts on promoting and advertising every small measure it takes. That, first of all. Measures like the gas cap know perfectly well that it has not been a success for several reasons. You promised that the discount would be between 50 and 30%. As soon as you make that announcement and sell it to candy and platter, the reality is that the reduction does not come in most days to 10%. In a few days the light will be cheaper? I'll buy it for you. But what was the wonderful and novel solution that was going to solve the problems until the PVPC reform? Well, neither. I will tell you why, since, moreover, you yourselves are the ones who give us the keys to know that it has not been a total success, because last Saturday you passed a royal decree law with new measures. If it works so well, why do they approve new measures? That's right, it hasn't worked the way you sold it, and that's what the Spaniards need. We cannot trust a government like yours when they announce one thing and then another happens. One thing that does happen - you know and have been told by other speakers - is that we are exporting gas to France. That's right, and we pay for it among all of us, and you can't deny it, because it's much cheaper to buy it from us than to buy it somewhere else. You can't deny it, but you go up to this rostrum and deny it again when you don't. Instead of devoting all the effort they have had to invest from the Government to approve this so-called Iberian exception, they should have devoted all that effort and time to community-level quiet reforms, but their Government has preferred to make gestures rather than really get into the mess to solve the problems of the Spaniards. They should have boosted the gas interconnections of the Iberian peninsula, betting on reliable and non-broadcasting energies, such as nuclear, which by ideology is not capable of doing. They don't think about the Spaniards, they think about their ideology, their beliefs. The Spanish need much more, and the nuclear power can be a reliable backup energy that helps us not to be dependent on gas from other countries. They must also promote deep market reforms at Community level. The opportunity we have wasted as a country forcing this Iberian exception, as I say, has been absurd, especially because they have not achieved what they wanted. You recognize him yourself. So, I don't think we can talk anymore. What we are asking you is what you are waiting for to undertake the reform and reduce the instability of the daily market for the most vulnerable consumers. You said d'octubre do you really think we have to wait until October? We already know how you announce the measure: it is October, then it will be December, then there will be a wave of cold that we do not contemplate and we will continue to pay more for energy in our country. I tell you one thing: if you don't bet on nuclear, I don't think this transition from the energy model is going to work. If anything has been shown in this past week is that our country's dependence on gas, despite exceptions and caps, is very high and conditions the price we pay for energy. That is why Citizens continue to insist on the need to bet on nuclear as a transitional energy by being cheaper and less polluting than gas, much less. Every day is a lost day to do what other countries in our environment are already doing, and it is betting on nuclear as a backup energy, either by extending the lives of active nuclear power plants or by building new reactors. It is a countdown, Mrs Rivera, because if the dates of the timetable set by the Government are maintained, the power stations that cease their activity in 2027 will reach their point of no return next year. So, you can't let one more day pass by putting patches on. Take measures that are really relevant and have a real impact on the invoice. In short, his Government remained anchored in the same evils that it was carrying over the entire legislature. The delay in making the decisions they touch at every moment - reforming the PVPC, promoting new interconnections or maintaining the anachronistic opposition to nuclear power - highlight their inability to deal with Spain's main problems, which they face, above all, in the energy sector. Put on your batteries because, if you continue to advertise and do not take serious action, this will be very difficult to contain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u270	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Denial]] For the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group? [[Denial]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u271	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, usually when I speak from the rostrum I always say that I am not going to waste a minute talking about you, because simply any inverted minute talking about what you propose is wasted time. And I know they love each other very much and they show it every time they come down with those ovations even before they intervene. I think you need to start shutting down the idea that you're worth less than a VOX applause, because yours really is amazing. [[Applauds]] I hear your proposals, your initiatives, and I really don't know what world you live in: energy proposals as innovative as deploying more nuclear or returning to coal. Totally, CO2 emissions are the same, aren't they? They're no problem! They say that if the temperature rises we will be warmer and that fewer people will die of cold; that if the sea level rises, for nothing, that this is solved with four dykes. These are his words, they are in the Journal of Sessions, remember him about when we discussed the law of climate change. You're going to allow me a joke, really, because it's because you can't do it any other way. Do you know who they remind me of? Do you remember Kevin Costner Waterworld's movie? They remind me of the bad guys in the movie. [[Laughter]] The truth is that the film itself was no big deal, but villains are truly memorable. I don't know if they'll remember that the boss was going with a patch in his eye, a cigarette in one hand and a gun in the other, and that they were sailing in a half sinking oil tanker, wrapped in a cloud of pollution, in a world completely flooded by global warming. If they were thinking about you when you made the movie! [[Laughter and applause]] They were called tuxedos, weren't they? Out of the way, I'm not going to call them negatists or terraplanists because that would oversimplify what they are. You're something much worse. It is you who applaud hatred among people who think differently. It is you who do not keep the proper education in this Chamber. It is you who applaud the social setbacks. It is you who applaud the stealing of women's rights, as you have spent this week in the United States. [[Applauds]] It is you who want us to go back in everything, because, for some reason that we cannot understand, you think that at any time past everything was better. Well, look, welcome to the future, there's no room for your ideas here anymore. Over the past year, the Government has been deploying, on a step-by-step basis, a network of initiatives to protect all citizens and especially the most vulnerable. Only in the field of energy and without entering other areas the list is unmatched. It has reduced the VAT on electricity from 21 to 10 % and now it has done it again to 5 %; it has suspended and reduced many other taxes, such as electricity generation, such as the excise duty on electricity; it has created the minimum vital supply, avoiding light and gas cuts; it has reinforced the social bonus to reach more families and make more money for them; it has reduced tolls on the electro-intensive industries by 80 %; it has given direct aid to the intensive gas industries by EUR 125 million; it has boosted fuels by 20 cents per litre; it has frozen the price of butane, and what we are debating today, has put a gas stop to the production of electricity that has clearly lowered the price of light in the wholesale markets, you say what you say and think as you think. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] If it were for them, if it were for the right, for the right, for the right centre, none of these measures would be under way, because they have not supported any of them, especially the People's Party. So, as for when they talk about ideology - I repeat it and I know what they have said - we carry our left ideology by flag and proudly, of course we do. [[Applauds]] If it were for you, today any Spaniard would have paid more for filling the fuel tank; today, the end of the month, his bill for light would be higher because there would be no gas cap, he would be paying... [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Yeah, it's tall, of course it's tall. Haven't you seen how the world is? [[Protests.-Applause.]] It is the reality that we have, of course, but the measures are working and are protecting citizens. [[Protests.-Applause.]] If it were for you, today you would pay more to fill the fuel tanks, today you would pay more for the light because there would be no gas caps, today there would be more taxes on electricity; today the electro-intensive and the intensive gases would not have the 488 million euros of direct aid they have had. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u272	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u273	In other words, your ideology and your poor education would have cost the families and businesses of this country billions of euros and you will continue to smile here, without being silent and without being ashamed. [[Protests.-Applause.]] I'm done with this, ladies and gentlemen. Think about it. They are totally mistaken in trying to deceive everyone, in trying to put their short-term partisan interests ahead of the interests of this country's citizens. I end with an appointment - I also know how to quote, Abraham Lincoln -, which seems to be meant for you: You can fool everyone for some time, you can cheat some all the time... [[protests]] But you won't be able to fool everyone all the time. [[Protests]] You know what's waiting for you. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. I give the floor to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u275	Thank you very much, President. I was thinking about how well it was some of the reminders made by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because I will remind you of some of the most important issues. In fact, the light would probably be paying 30% more, we would be without a minimum living income, without an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, without help to families, without a social bonus with a discount of 60% or 70%, etc. That party that went up the VAT a 21 % complains that we have gone down step by step. That party that did not have a plan for the energy transition in Spain now complains that there is not an accelerated enough response capacity for the deployment of alternatives in a gas crisis situation. That party that was forgotten - it was forgotten - that had to approve a national plan for radioactive waste now demands that we follow its criterion of imposing - impose - where a centralized temporary warehouse was not wanted. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u276	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u277	A party that, assuming to be liberal, banned the shutdown of power stations that failed to comply with the rules and sold at a loss. [[Applauds]] A party that had the burden of imposing a sun tax and that had the burden of waiting until December 2018 to leave the miners and the workers of the coal plants on the street, without alternative. [[Mr Herrero Bono speaks words that are not perceived.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u278	Mr Herrero, I ask you to remain silent. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u279	A party to which the Commissioner belonged that could have opened infringement files for breach of the interconnection obligations between Spain and France and left us with 2.8% interconnection between Spain and France. A party that, however, presumes not to have ideology, seems to be. A party that claims, in fact, to look to the past and claim the maintenance of nuclear power plants that are grossly failing in the neighbouring country. A party that forgets that 29 of the 56 power stations are standing still and that is precisely why we have had a net balance sheet exported to France since January. And look, I reminded you of the figures: the only month in which Spain imported electricity from France in what we have been doing since 2022 was February. In March and April, 800 megas, 400 megas, 700 megas, and in what we carried in June more than 200 megas. But, I insist, with 50 % of its nuclear power station stopped and with a relative price of gas on the Iberian market EUR 24 below the price of gas on the Dutch market. That is to say, more than enough reasons to explain that, by requiring it, by being able and relying on more competitive gas and electricity prices, we live on a continent where fortunately we try to build answers so that we can help and add together. And, despite everything, of course, paying at the price that the Spanish pay after the adjustment, the Spanish pay today with an adjustment of 14% below what they would have paid in their place without adjustment, a much higher amount of discount. And in relation to the rest of the European markets, between 40% and 50% of the difference compared to the wholesale price of the European markets. [[Applauds]] And that must be very hard, because, yes, it has cost us a lot, it has cost us a lot, it has cost us to explain it, it has cost us to give the reasons, to make the numbers, it has cost us technically, it has cost us to overcome resistances and it has cost us to accuse us of terrorist interventionism. And we have done so by thinking that there were plenty of reasons to change a regulation that only increased the benefits of a few at the cost of an unusual increase in the cost of the vast majority. We are very proud of it and we will continue to work to make this happen. But let me tell you a few more things about what you have raised. First question he also commented, returning the question to them. Tell me, Mr. Marshal, what do we do then with the fixed costs of the system? Do we pay them for the discount from the general budgets of the State, which is what this Government has considered appropriate at this time? Do we owe the system more, which seems to be what you would like us to do? Or don't we apply a charge discount? I'd like to know what you think needs to be done. [[Rumors]] Next question he also commented on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u280	Excuse me, Madam Vice President, just a moment. I'm asking you for silence, please, I'm asking you for silence. [[Rumors]] Any time, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u281	One of the things we found and decided not to change because it seemed to us that the historical one showed that it was advantageous was the regulated tariff, known as the PVPC, which the former government established; a regulated tariff that has entailed in the accumulated one enormous advantages, since there was no margin of increase, was directly linked to the price of the wholesale market. And, indeed, we differ from the rest of the countries of the European Union; there is no Member State of the European Union in which there is such a high percentage of consumers who have a tariff of these characteristics. In circumstances like these, it has become a trap and therefore we need to create a context that allows us to change the design of this tariff, reducing its volatility and facilitating a transformation of the current tariff into something at lower risk. For this we needed an answer such as that we had with the Iberian mechanism. I have moved it before and I insist on it now: It is not possible to use in those price references that do not exist. It was therefore important to have existing prices below what the futures for Europe as a whole showed. So now we are in a position to modify that regulated tariff. But don't forget, Mr. Marshal, where you come from and where we are and how, having become a trap, we will indeed react. There is another issue that they also forget because they are of fragile memory, and they are tax issues, and that is what various European citizens' parliamentarians and the People's Party have endeavoured to ask the Commission over and over again if we could not reduce the VAT on fuels and over and over again the Commission has told them no. And the excise duty on hydrocarbons in our country is already at the limit of what is possible and it is very difficult to have an alteration of it. That's what they know, but you can see they're forgotten, depending on who they're talking to. That is why it is important to be able to work with effective responses that are compatible with the rules. I apologize to Mr Capdevila for being so bored and I apologize because I think he got confused and quoted Directive 2019/1994 instead of Directive 944/2019. Do not worry, that for Directive 2019/944, which has confirmed that you are asking in your second round of intervention, we still have a deadline of reply until July 15, and we will, neglect that we will, and in any case we will already share with you the answer if you have any interest in it. Finally, with regard to the issues relating to the configuration of our supplier basket, that is, how we work on a secure supply of gas, I will tell you that, in fact, changes have been taking place this year, strengthening the presence of American gas and also considering the possibility of increasing the supply of other countries with which there is a traditional trade relationship, as is often the case in these circumstances. It is not the State that buys the gas, it is the companies of different origin. And, in principle, following closely with the companies, apparently the supply of gas to our country is guaranteed. So we will follow closely on this complicated path, where we must be able to rejoice at this capacity to reduce electricity prices in relation to what neighbours in other EU Member States live in, and we will be pending to transform and reduce the vulnerability of consumers with a wholesale price to a less volatile, more settled and fairer system. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u282	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mr Mariscal, the two scheduled shifts have been carried out. [[Rumors]] I believe that the issue is sufficiently debated and the positions sufficiently clear. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We started with non-law propositions. No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the dismissal of the director of the CNI and the fulfilment of the Government's transparency obligations. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 136 plus 15 telematics votes, 151; 157 plus 17 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u284	The non-legislative proposal is rejected. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE APPLICATION OF BIG TOOLS DATE FOR MOBILITY IN SPAIN. [[File number 162/000550]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u285	No law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the application of big data tools for mobility in Spain. We vote in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos - In Comú Podemo-Galicia in Communo, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimenoy Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 255 plus 26 telematics votes, 281; abstentions, 52 plus 6 telematics votes, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u286	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u287	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the regularization of migrant persons residing in the State. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 54 plus 6 telematics votes, 60; against, 250 plus 25 telematics votes, 275; abstentions, 3 plus 1 telematics vote, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u288	The motion is rejected. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE EMERGENCY SITUATION OF THE MENOR SEA. [[Madam Sabanas Nadal]] [[File number 173/000160]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u289	Motion for an urgent debate by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal, on the ecological emergency situation in the Mar Menor. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and the Plural Group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 plus 31 telematics votes, 333; 167 plus 16 telematics votes, 183; against 45 plus 6 telematics votes, 51; abstentions, 90 plus 9 telematics votes, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u290	The motion was approved. - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, ON THE CRISIS OF THE SPANISH EXTERNAL POLICY. [[File number 173/000161]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u291	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the crisis of Spanish foreign policy. A separate vote was taken by points. First of all, point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 210 plus 20 telematics votes, 230; 49 plus 6 telematics votes, 55; abstentions, 48 plus 6 telematics votes, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u292	It was adopted. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 plus 31 telematics votes, 334; 241 plus 25 telematics votes, 266; 52 plus 6 telematics votes, 58; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u293	It was adopted. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 255 plus 26 telematics votes, 281; 49 plus 6 telematics votes, 55; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u294	It was adopted. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 210 plus 20 telematics votes, 230; against, 50 plus 6 telematics votes, 56; abstentions, 47 plus 6 telematics votes, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u295	It was adopted. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 255 plus 26 telematics votes, 281; 48 plus 6 telematics votes, 54; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u296	It was adopted. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 304 plus 31 telematics votes, 335; in favour, 246 plus 25 telematics votes, 271; against, 25; abstentions, 33 plus 6 telematics votes, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u297	Point 6 was adopted. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 plus 31 telematics votes, 333; 199 plus 10 telematics votes, 209; 52 plus 15 telematics votes, 67; abstentions, 51 plus 6 telematics votes, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u298	It was adopted. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 136 plus 16 telematics votes, 152; 114 plus 10 telematics votes, 124; abstentions, 57 plus 6 telematics votes, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u299	It was adopted. Point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 257 plus 26 telematics votes, 283; against, 2; abstentions, 48 plus 6 telematics votes, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u300	It was adopted. Point 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 255 plus 26 telematics votes, 281; against, 5; abstentions, 47 plus 6 telematics votes, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u301	It was adopted. Point 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 258 plus 26 telematics votes, 284; 49 plus 6 telematics votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u302	It was adopted. Point 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 254 plus 26 telematics votes, 280; 49 plus 6 telematics votes, 55; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u303	It was adopted. Point 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 31 telematics votes, 338; 193 plus 21 telematics votes, 214; 110 plus 10 telematics votes, 120; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u304	It was adopted. Point 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 31 telematics votes, 338; 254 plus 25 telematics votes, 279; 23; abstention, 30 plus 6 telematics votes, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u305	It was adopted. Point 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 272 plus 31 telematics votes, 303; against, 6; abstentions, 29 plus 1 telematics vote, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u306	It was adopted. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE STRATEGY TO BE TAKEN THE GOVERNMENT SHALL BE CONCERNED WITH ENERGY POLICY IN THE COURT AND MIDDLE-TERM. [[File number 173/000162]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u307	Motion for an urgent debate by the VOX Group on the strategy to be implemented by the Government with regard to energy policy in the short and medium term. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 46 plus 6 telematics votes, 52; 252 plus 26 telematics votes, 278; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u308	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u309	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Vote on the opinion of the Business Creation and Growth Bill, incorporating the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 236 plus 25 telematics votes, 261; against, 2; abstentions, 69 plus 7 telematics votes, 76.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u310	It was adopted. [[Applauds]] - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/1985, OF 1 JULY, OF JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, IN THE MATTER OF MERCANTIAL JUDGMENTS. [[File number 121/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u311	Draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary in the matter of Commercial Courts. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 31 telematics votes, 338; 177 plus 17 telematics votes, 194; against 80 plus 8 telematics votes, 88; abstentions, 50 plus 6 telematics votes, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u312	It was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u313	The vote as a whole is then taken, because the initiative is organic. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 178 plus 17 telematics votes, 195; against 80 plus 9 telematics votes, 89; abstentions, 49 plus 6 telematics votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u314	The draft organic law was adopted. [[Applauds]] - DRAFT REFORM LAW FOR THE REFUND TEXT OF THE COMPETITION LAW, APPROVED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION 1/2020 OF 5 MAY, FOR THE TRANSPOSITION OF DIRECTIVE 2019/1023 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 20 JUNE 2019, ON PREVENTIVE RESTRUCTURING FRAMEWORKS, EXEMPTION OF DUTY AND INHABILITATIONS, AND ON MEASURES TO INCREASE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RESTRUCTURING, INSOLVENCY AND EXEMPTION OF DUTY PROCEDURES, AND AMENDMENT OF DIRECTIVE 2017/1132 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL, ON THE DETERMINED ASPECTS OF THE RIGHT OF SOCIETY [[DIRECTIVE ON RESTRUCTURING AND INSOLVENCY]] [[File number 121/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u315	Vote on the opinion of the Draft Law amending the consolidated text of the Competition Law, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2020 of 5 May, for the transposition of Directive 2019/1023 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on frameworks for preventive restructuring, debt relief and disqualifications, and on measures to increase the efficiency of restructuring, insolvency and debt relief procedures, and amending Directive 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of company law, restructuring and insolvency directive. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 167 plus 17 telematics votes, 184; abstentions, 140 plus 15 telematics votes, 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u316	It was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u317	Senate amendments. Proposal for a law amending Act No. 19/2013 of 9 December 2013 on transparency, access to public information and good governance in order to regulate statistics on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement. [[SMEs]] En bloc vote on the Senate amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 305 plus 32 telematics votes, 337; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u318	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u319	Proposal for a comprehensive law on equal treatment and non-discrimination. Separate vote on Senate amendments. Amendment to Article 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 181 plus 17 telematics votes, 198; 45 plus 6 telematics votes, 51; abstentions, 81 plus 9 telematics votes, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u320	It's approved. Amendment to additional provision 6 (new). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 254 plus 26 telematics votes, 280; 48 plus 6 telematics votes, 54; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u321	It's approved. The rest of the Senate's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 174 plus 17 telematics votes, 191; 126 plus 15 telematics votes, 141; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u322	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u323	Proposal from the Commission on Industry, Trade and Tourism for the creation of a Sub-Commission on the deployment and installation of electricity and hydrogen charging infrastructures and their impact on the automotive industry in Spain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; 262 plus 26 telematics votes, 288; 45 plus 6 telematics votes, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u324	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u325	New point, avocado of legislative initiatives. [[Mr Guijarro García asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Quijano?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u326	Mr. Guijarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u327	Mr. Guijarro, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u328	I warn you that comrade Laura López's voting system has just been ruined. The blank monitor just showed up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u329	Let's check it out. Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. And excuse the mistake of the name.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u330	It's the same. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u331	Having checked the system, we resumed the voting. As I said, a new point: legal initiatives. Voting of the request for the House's plenary to act on the deliberation and final vote on the draft law on sustainable fisheries and fisheries research, submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 306 plus 32 telematics votes, 338; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u332	The bill is now before the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u333	Voting of requests for avocado by the plenary of the Chamber of deliberation and final vote of the draft law on institutionalization of the evaluation of public policies in the General Administration of the State, submitted by the Republican and Plural parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 plus 32 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 301 plus 31 telematics votes, 332; against, 5 plus 1 telematics vote, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u334	The bill is now before the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u335	Voting of the request of the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of the bill regulating customer service services, submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 32 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 300 plus 31 telematics votes, 331; against, 6 plus 1 telematics vote, 7; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-30-CD220630.u336	The bill is now before the House. Thank you all very much, have a very good afternoon. The meeting rose. It was six and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
