ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42480	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. You today have two legislative proposals in the field of environmental protection and nature protection. The creation of a new Nature Protection Act has been approached, among other things, by the observed shortcomings of applicable laws, particularly in the partial non-implementability of certain provisions, the need to improve the overall system of nature protection, further harmonisation with European and Croatian legislation and international conventions and protocols. Since it is a complex law, the law relating to a large number of segments of economic and social life we have decided not to pass the Nature Protection Act by an urgent procedure but to leave you with the possibility of esteemed representatives and the entire professional and interested public to study the provisions of this bill and to participate in this process. That's why this bill is here today in the second reading. The environmental law is the second law in today's debate and the drafting of this law has also been approached for several reasons, which would specifically single out the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with European regulations and news in Croatian legislation. Both laws have passed a wide public and professional debate. And what is very important we have also received a positive opinion from the European Commission on both laws. There is a lot of news that we are expected to do when we join the EU and that is why I would like the Ministry of Environment and Nature to be seen as a partner to citizens and the economy in terms of new circumstances and processes. Key innovations of the Nature Protection Act relate to improving the system of nature protection, with particular emphasis on the preservation and management of protected areas. The most important improvements are the clear definition of categories of protected areas from national importance, the adoption of management plans and annual work programmes with the consent of the Ministry or the executive body of the units of local and regional self-government, the introduction of additional operating control mechanisms for public institutions operating protected areas, the abolition of first purchase rights in protected areas except national parks, strict and special reserves and additional arrangements for the award of concession authorisations systems in protected areas and speleological facilities in accordance with the new Law on concessions and good practices. Further to the amendments made at the debate and the plenary session at the first reading, there have been some improvements in the final proposal, some of which I list only some. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The content of the regulation declaring the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia has also been expanded in such a way as to prescribe a way of developing a financial framework for the implementation of the conservation measures of the ecological network. A proposal has also been adopted allowing other activities to be carried out in accordance with the Regulation and this amendment has been introduced in Article 114(4). Amendments concerning the decision-making of appointments and resolutions in public institutions operating in other protected areas, which is now prescribed by the executive body, rather than by the representative body of the founders, have also been adopted. It also accepted a proposal extending the time limit for the coordination of the organisation of the general act activities with the provisions of the law from 60 to 120 days and after the first reading, which was not accepted, I would single out two. A proposal proposing that the compensatory conditions in the assessment of acceptability for the ecological network should also be within the framework of monetary compensation. Monetary compensation cannot ensure the integrity and connectivity of the Natura 2000 ecological network and is not an appropriate form of compensation. The requirement to introduce in the law a provision establishing a new agency to manage national parks and parks of nature, therefore, an expert analysis of international and domestic protected area experts has shown that the social, economic and political costs of setting up such an agency are not justified or would bring improvement to the system but would endanger it in its very being. The improvements in governance can be made more quickly and efficiently through the following improvements. By creating and implementing a single policy of management of protected areas, continuous supervision of work and use of funds, equating business processes and establishing an effective system of monitoring their implementation and measuring performance. Integration of public institutions operating in the same area. Reduce the number of board members and fill them in to experts and nature protection and training. Finally, the creation of a unique, visual identity and the creation of a common branding platform, a joint appearance on the tourist market and the design of a unique tourist offer on the principles of green tourism. Let me present in the most important lines the second Law, the Environmental Protection Act. The state of the environment in Croatia is better than the situation in many European Union countries but we want to keep it that way and where it is possible to improve it. As part of this community, which is the world leader in this segment, we must and want to join the European Union in respecting high standards of environmental protection, as well as respecting Croatia's specificities and helping the Croatian economy wherever possible to achieve the following objectives. First, stopping negative environmental impacts. Second, improving the state of the environment wherever possible and creating third assumptions for sustainable development involving social development, economic growth and the preserved environment. In the new Environmental Protection Act, three are key improvements and four newspapers. The first improvement adopted by the new law will allow the environmental authorisation system to become more flexible for the investor and at no time question the level of environmental protection. The entry of the environmental permit is no longer a condition for the establishment, location or use of the permit and is possible at any time between the assessment of the impact of the procedure on the environment and the release of the plant into the test work, or at the time when the designer assesses that there is sufficient data on the facility, so that it can design the system in a way that meets the highest standards of environmental protection. Another important improvement will make it possible to reduce the duration of the environmental impact assessment process. At the very beginning of the procedure, give the investor clear guidelines on the possible direction of the project. It also refers to amendments to the assessment procedure on the need for environmental impact assessment, etc. the screening of which is the most important obligation of the state administration to conduct the screening procedure within a maximum of two months instead of the three so far and parallel screening for the environment and the ecological network. The third important improvement brings a set of measures aimed at raising the quality of the environmental impact study and improving the environmental protection professional service system, which ultimately seeks to restore trust in studies, environmental impact and the overall system, as unfortunately due to several poor studies, the entire system has been defused. Four important news is the new Environmental Protection Act. The first of them will also result in a clearer starting position for investors who are moving to create a specific project and thus a more favourable investment climate. This will be achieved by extending the strategic environmental impact assessment, which will make it mandatory for strategies, plans and programmes to be adopted at national and regional level and at the local level of large cities. Another important novelty relates to the creation of a simpler process for the establishment of environmental permits for smaller risk plants based on the so-called so-called ". general binding rules. General binding rules represent a minimum that must satisfy less risky facilities that have well-known, almost typical environmental impacts and thus meet the required standards of environmental protection but with a faster and cheaper procedure of environmental authorisation. Furthermore, we also took into account the current economic situation that has forced many plants to work below full capacity. This proposal provides for supervised work without environmental permission. The facilities will be able to operate under strict supervision for a maximum of four years and before capacity increases, the operator will again be obliged to obtain an environmental permit. And the latest novelty of this Law I would like to emphasise is the creation of a basis for the introduction of an eco-management system and an independent evaluation of EMAS and a sign of protection of the EU environment, which will give Croatian companies the opportunity to become more competitive on the domestic and European market by meeting high European environmental standards. And let me get this straight. The Republic of Croatia by biodiversity is one of the leading countries of the European Union and the state of the environment in Croatia is better than the situation in many European Union countries. And that's why we want to keep that position and where it's possible to improve it. We want to ensure quality and effective protection of our national resources, our protected areas and work to stop negative environmental impacts, improve the state of the environment and create assumptions for sustainable development, which includes social development, economic growth and the preserved environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42481	Thank you, Minister. We have a single replica reported. Dear Representative Josip Boris and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42482	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Minister, the Honorable Minister said the Nature Protection Act is an additionally decorated concession system. So I'd like to ask him in view of his recent announcements that he wants to put Brijuni National Park in a concession. We are witnessing that this government is really about national wealth, national values are thinking quite differently from any of the above and the question is why it is doing so. The monetization of highways, the sale of Croatian insurance, the sale of Croatian postal bank, is announced, we now hear concessions or concessions in national parks. Today Brijuni, tomorrow perhaps Plitvice Lakes, Kornati, all others. The question is whether or not, given your announcements that investors will be able to build accommodation facilities on all existing foundations there and up to 30% of the flooring of the existing ones. Whether it protects or protects future investors and whether the national interest is truly the most valuable wealth, natural wealth to give to some private investors and to prove that we ourselves do not know how to make money on our most beautiful republics. What are we doing this for?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42483	Replica response, respected Minister Michael Zmajlovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42484	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, it is, therefore, that if you have read the bill's proposal that no national wealth is given in the concession. It is this law that lays the foundations and ensures that our national treasures, nature parks, national parks and other protected areas are managed in a sustainable manner, in a way that is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The concession offers tourist offers, hotels and tourist facilities, while the Republic of Croatia and its citizens remain always owned by this national wealth. These are famous models around the world that the state as the owner, how citizens as owners can manage their resources more effectively. One of the possible models is, of course, that you give some content in the concession, and that there is no alienation of national wealth, there is no estrangement of what is owned by the Republic of Croatia. And it is estimated that in certain national parks, there is a huge potential for attracting investment under strictly controlled conditions where the state will strictly determine what are the conditions that will benefit the state and what level of investment there will be. So when we talk to the Brijuni, it is a decades of desire to have this national resource, to open additional jobs through that national resource, to bring the world's best hotel operators who will then have an interest in branding the site of Great Brijuni, but also the entire region so Istria, and thus Croatia as a tourist destination becomes even more recognizable on the European Union tourist map, but also throughout the world. So we just want to get a promotion here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42485	Thank you, too. Do the rapporteurs want the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament? Yeah. Dear Representative Branko Bacic on behalf of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42486	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. On behalf of the home working body, i.e. the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature, I will present only a report relating to the Final Proposal for a Law on Nature Protection, while the report on the Proposal for a Law on Environmental Protection will, with the final proposal, be shared on the benches of Assembly MPs, given that before the plenary session itself, discuss the proposal for a Law on Environmental Protection with the final draft of the law. So in the section relating to the Final Bill on Nature Protection, the Committee discussed it at the 23rd session held on 5 June 2013, the Final Proposal for a Law on Nature Protection, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 18 April 2013. On the basis of Article 84a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection discussed the final draft law as a home working body. In his opening statement, the Minister of Environment and Nature stressed the importance of adopting a new Nature Protection Act to improve the system of nature protection and sustainable development. The proposed law lays down the conditions for the establishment of the Natura 2000 ecological network and clearly defines the deadlines and shortens the process of assessing the acceptability of the procedures for the objectives of the conservation of the ecological network. In short, some of the comments adopted by the proposals made in the first reading have been presented, in particular as regards the possibility of carrying out fishing activities in a special reserve in Maloston Bay, in such a way as to make it possible to carry out certain activities in a special reserve, and in accordance with the rules to be adopted by the Minister. The board was also attended by the Director of the State Institute for Nature Protection. The present representative of the Green Forum pointed out that the opportunity for more significant public involvement in the adoption of the Nature Protection Act was missed since the text of the proposed law was sent to the adoption procedure in a substantially modified form in relation to the original draft law on which the public debate was conducted. The Green Forum estimates that the Ministry of Environment and Nature presented this law to the public as a law that will allow for improvement of the investment climate. It is also a worrying assessment of the fact that Natura 2000 will cover a significantly smaller area than the existing ecological network, thus excluding a significant area from the procedures for assessing the acceptability of strategies, plans, programmes and procedures. It has been pointed out that no clear legal mechanisms have been defined to regulate economic fisheries in protected areas, especially nature parks. At the same time, the proposed law does not recognise alternative management models for protected areas. Attending representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and the Institute of Ordnance Plants, Regional Architecture and Garden Arts of the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb stressed the need to improve the proposed law by including segments of landscape diversity and landscape protection, since the Republic of Croatia passed the European Convention on landscape and its recommendations by law. In this respect, the chambers and the Faculty of Agriculture submitted amendments to Article 7(9), Article 19(1) and (2) of Article 20(1) and Article 19(2) and Article 4(4) thereof, and proposed the addition of a new article to regulate the protection of landscapes. On the issue of the regulation of fishing in Maloston Bay and the Small Sea Committee meetings were also attended by the heads of the municipality of Janjin, Ston, and the coast of Dubrovnik, as well as representatives of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. It was pointed out that the proposed solution was partially appreciated in the first reading. It is proposed to specify fishing as one of the activities to be carried out in the field of a special reserve in Article 114(4) and to define the conditions for carrying out these activities by means of the rules laid down in Article 142 of this Act adopted by the Minister. This proposal is supported by the President of the Committee by an amendment to Article 114. The Committee shall also be attended by a representative of the Croatian Chamber of crafts who, in connection with the award of concessions for speleological facilities, referred the Committee to the amendment proposal for Article 108. Following the preliminary presentations, a debate was followed in which the Committee member stressed the importance of strengthening the landscape aspect in the proposed law. In connection with the implementation of the reform of the management system of protected areas, and the establishment of a financial instrument for the implementation of the objectives defined by the strategy and action plan for the protection of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee member stressed the need to set up a national park agency. In the context of these observations, the Committee members announced their amendments to the text of the final draft law. During the debate, Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was assessed in an unacceptable way to establish a public institution for the management of two or more national parks or nature parks, i.e. a public institution for the management of all protected areas of national importance. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is stressed that the Nature Protection Act should clearly define a model of governance of protected areas, not a decision past the parliamentary procedure. The debate highlights the importance of protecting and improving landscapes, and gives support to amendments to the Croatian Chamber of Architects and the Faculty of Agriculture. It was assessed that the proposed law did not protect maritime well-being well enough, and made it impossible for maritime good law enforcement outside the protected area to protect better than maritime well-being in protected areas. It is pointed out that the law should also clearly define that the award of concessions and the allocation of concession revenue for maritime goods is implemented in accordance with the Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports. It is pointed out that the fact that this law can be discussed in two readings cannot compensate for the lack of a new public debate for the significantly amended text of the law compared to the original draft law for which a public debate was held. The Minister of Environmental Protection and Nature was given written remarks from the Green Forum, as well as proposals for amendments to the Croatian Chamber of Architecture, Croatian Chamber of Architects, Institute of Ornamental Plants, Regional Architecture and Garden Art of the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Zagreb, and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Following the discussion, the Committee did not set its position on support for the adoption of this law because the votes of the ten members present were divided by 5 votes, 4 votes against and 1 abstention. Here's your thanks, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42487	Thank you, too. Do the other presidents of the working bodies want to? I find that not. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected representative Jasen Mesic, and the second part of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42488	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. President, We had an opportunity to hear a very good report from the discussion from the parent board. The fact is, this Nature Protection Act should not have been passed at this time. The fact is that when we enter the EU, we will have to re-analyze and re-coordinate with the necessary things. Then what's the main motive for going with the law now, and we heard something about it in the parent committee report. In our tradition it is precisely in the protection of nature that is over 100 years old just natural heritage has always been related to cultural heritage and has never been concentrated in a ministry that deals with both the environment and construction precisely because of the fact that there is no overlapping of interest. And overlapping of interest is precisely the main reason why this law is passed, and it is adopted in order to allow for the extension of the time limit to be extended to the concession and that is the main motive. The main motive is to comply with the Law on concessions and to in some way ensure the frameworks and to push through investments. How and in what way? Are you in cooperation with the experts, in cooperation with this High House? No, I don't. Because when investments are to be pushed into particularly protected areas, national parks, nature parks, or concessions will also be talked about something called a decision on the prevailing public interest. And the decision on the prevailing public interest will be made by the government of the Republic of Croatia without a parliament, without a public debate, without agreement with the professional public, the government will decide. Read the ministers and prime ministers. Then who will control it and is it the interest of the Republic of Croatia? Instead of going to the adoption of this law now, it should just concentrate on what we call NATURA 2000. I'm sure he knows Mr. Secretary. Unfortunately, we have about 30% inventoryd biodiversity in NATURA 2000 now. 30% inventory. It would have been much better if we had just concentrated on NATURA in 2000, if we had raised that level of inventory to 90% and then made it much easier to make decisions that await us, as well as the one about the prevailing public interest and made it much easier to make decisions on future concessions and possible economic activities that could occur in protected areas. It's the Agency's question. There was a very important group funded by the UNDP, which found that out of the 3 existing models, just to improve the current system has the most benefits for the Republic of Croatia. The same number of points had the agency model and the current system model. It is recommended that it is now going to improve the existing system because this will cause less financial needs, less earthquakes in the system, and in the short term it can result in better results. And that's why we stand firm in that position. We're standing at the stand and recommendations that came with the waist. It is not a matter of some big policy, nor is it a matter of some great ideology, nor can it and should it be a matter of only potential political programmes, which are mostly already practically and do not exist. They were also identified by this occasion and weaknesses, some of them mentioned by the honourable minister. And it is precisely a recommendation in which we can be helped to implement this weakness, so that the explicity also mentions a global environmental fund that provides for certain financial resources with which these weaknesses of the existing system can be financed, and it is ladies and gentlemen about $5 million. That $5 million we haven't been able to pull all this time. The very worrying fact is that this law, which is now being pushed to be voted as soon as possible, did not go through a public debate because that law is the second legislative proposal from that law that was held in public debate in May 2012, on which there were ladies and gentlemen almost 100 remarks made by the NGOs, which by the expert bodies, which by the profession, which by the interested public. It just shows how important the public debate is and how helpful it can be to the legislator as well as to us. We believe that it would be much better to concentrate on Natura 2000, so that it would be good to return the law to public debate, to solve the main problems that have not been solved again. So, the ecological network, the management of economic activities in protected areas, the participation of the public related to both nature parks and national parks, and in no way allow, in the prevailing public interest which is otherwise a practice in the world, to apply this rule of prevailing public interest when human lives and material goods are threatened to stay away from the Croatian Parliament, away from profession, away from public debate and to be locked in government drawers. All those who think that the problems and weaknesses of the existing system will be solved so that a centralized agency in the City of Zagreb will be deeply deceived and not only are they going against the expert conclusions that are explicit, which are the conclusions of the UN Conference on Biological Coastal Varieties held in Brazil, the last one was in India, and the European conference was held a few years ago and in Plitvice Lakes, which explicits say and draws conclusion on the distribution of benefits coming from particularly protected natural areas and that these benefites must be equally shared between the local community and central state. This is what we do. Protected natural areas, national parks and nature parks survived over the centuries precisely because of the harmony they had with the local community. And regardless of our long tradition of nature protection and regardless of the efforts of the central state, the most survived is precisely that. And this is one of the main stakes that this was a protected area, whether potential touristic and other resources remain protected in this way. As a result, we will not be able to support the Nature Protection Act and therefore, and because of these other arguments, which are mentioned and once again we appeal for the whole process to be repeated because we will have to change it anyway, as I said, by entering the EU, to conduct a thorough public debate that will solve all these problems, and also those problems that we have heard with the report from the parent board. And what we particularly want to refer to the competent ministry cannot wait three months, and there is the possibility of attracting $5 million in funds to improve the current situation. And we, because of the problems of the party, are thinking whether or not we are going to make a decision instead of making a decision and going about improving the existing system that we think is the best way to do it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42489	Thank you, too. The second part of the HDZ club's position in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42490	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would refer to the proposal of the Environmental Protection Act with the final proposal for a law and present our opinions concerning the bill with the final draft of the law. First of all, Mr. President, it would be better for us, more pragmatic if we had discussed these two laws separately. Namely, the Environmental Protection Act is a roof law in the field of environmental protection and nature in the Republic of Croatia and it implements this debate on the law adopted in the emergency procedure, while the Nature Protection Act has already passed the first reading and in this debate a series of objections to this law have been made and it may have been more opportunistic that we first manifested ourselves about the Nature Protection Act itself and conducted an independent debate only on the Nature Protection Act. But what's there is, so far we're discussing both law and law. What I believe is that one of the principled remarks on this roof environmental law is the fact that according to the plan to bring national legislation into line with the acquis, the EU has been defined that this Environmental Protection Act will be discussed in the Croatian Parliament and will be adopted in the second quarter of 2012. And indeed the Minister of Justice then made a bill, a draft law on environmental protection around which the draft and consultation with the interested public was conducted, precisely in the period from 27 April to 27 May 2012. But then, with the law for reasons unknown to us, we care because this bill is very little changed in relation to this bill. We see no reason why the government has waited almost over a year for this bill to be discussed in the House. and then the government presented a new legislative harmonisation plan to the EU acquis where the law was said to be discussed in the first quarter. And here, this is the end of the second quarter we have not yet passed this law although this law represents added harmonisation with the EU acquis. We are discussing it only 12 days before we join full EU membership, and it is necessary from this law because it is written to bring a series of implementing sublegislative documents that will contribute to the implementation of the law itself. So we don't understand why we lost a year of this law. Another principled observation that I wish to make is that it is good that Article 63 is foreseen to adopt strategic environmental impact assessments on strategic documents and that is particularly important in the area of spatial planning. We therefore support this, but therefore we do not understand how this Parliament adopted amendments and amendments Friday on amendments and additions to the Strategy for Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, and we have also made an observation that such a document is being taken without a strategic environmental impact assessment. The government knew because this bill had already been referred to in the ordinary procedure that the implementation of this law would require strategic environmental impact assessment when Parliament adopts strategic documents, and this is a particularly important strategic document, which is a decision on amendments and additions to the Strategy for Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. And the same ministry that the legislator of this law argues by this law is good and that we supported the need when such strategies are adopted to make a strategic assessment of environmental impact and at the same time as this bill is produced writes to the other ministry that it does not need a strategic environmental impact assessment for such strategy. This is what we of the HDZ Club particularly stressed in the process when we were in the debate last week when we made decisions in this House on amendments and additions to the Strategy of Spatial Planning. The more this strategy, the change of strategy, has served the Government to go into the parliamentary procedure with a proposal of the Law on hydrocarbons, called the bill, which relies on this changed strategy and where it is planned in the territory of the Croatian Adriatic, without any assessment of the environmental impact of the entry into the exploitation of hydrocarbons in unexplored locations. We hold that it is absolutely indisputable with this law that has been passed, which is good for us but here the government in the Parliament goes with the law, but before that it allows itself to take some steps and projects and laws without what is under this law a condition, which is that strategic assessment. This law also plans to adopt a strategy for the management of the marine environment and coastal area which we support again, but also for this strategy should be developed a strategic environmental impact assessment precisely for those reasons that I mentioned earlier, and in the context of the adoption of the Law on Hydrocarbons. And when we talk about the Marine Environmental Management Strategy and the coastal area, then I think the government should say what is the defined deadline on which this strategy is adopted because it is not written in the law, or it is omitted, or let the government introduce us, which is why it is not defined the time limit on which a single strategy is adopted. And when we talk about the protection of the marine environment or the management of the marine environment and coastal area in this context, it is good to bring a plan of intervention to sudden sea pollution, but we do not understand why the government is now making such plans without opinion, without agreement, without the views of the regional self-government, therefore without the county administrative authorities, because I believe that there is almost the greatest responsibility on these counties and its administrative bodies when it comes to the plan for intervention in the sudden pollution of the sea, and we are witnessing that it has been in the near past. Therefore, it is not good for the Government to adopt a document that will make it very clear that proper treatment and that the units of the district self-government and that no cooperation with the county administrative authorities has been established by law in the process of adopting the document. Furthermore, what I would also like to say is a report on the state of the environment which, by law in force, has been made clear that the environmental status report is being adopted at national and local level. This Law abolished the obligation for the Environmental Status Report to be adopted for the city or municipality level. I believe that, in that part too, we should have kept this obligation because I think the state of the environment is also necessary to discuss on representative bodies units of local self-government because sometimes the biggest environmental pollution is happening at these levels. And it is good that, that there is a commitment, clearly in agreement with the county administrative authorities to discuss the state of the environment at the lowest and lowest levels. What I would also like to mention and what is today, which was also the subject of the Committee on Environmental Protection, which is the proposal to amend or amend or views which, which the Ministry, or the Government, sent to the Department of Administrative Law of Legal Quality through the Committee of origin, which speaks of possible non-constitutions about the procedure when, when the investor of an individual interested person stops with his project and waits for the words of the judicial authority in relation to the acceptability of a particular procedure on the environment. And according to this bill, it is said that if it is found that there was no reason to stop a particular project and wait for the word of a particular judicial authority that those costs of lost earnings should then be paid by the person who submitted such a application. And therefore, for a short time, a single project has been stopped. The Faculty of Law holds that it is not on the one hand in accordance with the Constitution and that the Government does, here is the adoption of this Law to consider whether it might be such one, such a provision that has been amended by this law. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club holds that the provisions of this Law should be amended in this part, so we will clearly depend on how the Government will put me to the vote on, or to accept, the non-acceptation of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42491	Thank you, too. We now return to the replicas, to the presentation of the respected representative Jasen Mesic. Let's go in order, the first replica and respected representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42492	Dear fellow Mesic, when we speak some things, we must be precise. And it's true that the UNDP did an analysis but not three models but five models. And that analysis has shown that the same number of points have been received means a system for improving the existing model. So it's not keeping the existing model, it's improving the existing model. And the second one was given to the National Park Agency. So there was no recommendation on what to choose, but that these two models were the most acceptable of the models considered. But given the fact that the Kukuriku coalition, i.e. the SDP when it was in opposition, has been all the time a national park agency as a model that will implement in terms of reforming the management system of protected areas and that the Kukuriku coalition has won elections through its programme then it is logical to assume that it will make a political decision on the selection of the national park agency as an acceptable model. In addition, the biggest problem in the nature protection system is the lack of a financial instrument that would finance a national strategy and action plan to protect landscape and biodiversity, which you know very well because you were ultimately at the head of the culture ministry which in the last term took care of nature protection. And without a financial instrument, we will not be able to meet the very large commitments we have towards the European Union in this part. And I think it's very important that the entire state doesn't pay for the penalty because the state has not met certain objectives and obligations. So I think there's a very large number of arguments for the National Park Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42493	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42494	Dear colleagues, Holly, I agree with you that the Kukurik coalition 21 is writing everything and that much of it has not been achieved. That's the part we absolutely agree on. As for the working group, she considered more models than five models, especially three models. The improvement of the existing system, the park system as a cluster and the question of the agency. It's true that the same number of points he got the agency and I said it, it seems, and it seems that the exact number of points was 73, of each, therefore, I know well what I'm talking about. However, the recommendation was that the introduction of the agency would now require large financial resources, a large investment of energy, and that this is not recommended at the moment, but that the recommendation should be made to improve the existing system in order to reduce the scarcity of what results and the amount of analysis that has been carried out, in particular, to four elements. And as for us when it was at the Ministry of Culture. Strengthening the system, hiring people in parks, introducing inspections, a number of international projects, telemetry systems to prevent fires in protected nature parks and national parks. And for all of this we financed from foreign funds because we received from the World Bank with the help of the then Minister of Finance a $20m aid to finance all of this without burdening the Croatian budget and Croatian citizens. So we tried very hard to do it. And I especially appeal to the current minister that there is now the possibility of getting the funds that doesn't seem to be happening but is waiting. And that's exactly the right thing to do. And what everything says in the plan of the Kukuriku coalition there we could really read all sorts of things. But we didn't see any of it. Well, if that were the only problem with that coalition plan, then we'd have a lot less debate in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42495	Thank you, too. It is up to the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42496	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Mesic, does it not seem to you that around non-essential things want to take the first position so that some things that are very important about what is going to happen in the future and that will be resolved in the next 40, 50 years away from the light stage i.e. from the eyes of the public, and that everything is as expensive as usual, so look at our new Rules of Procedure, decisions are made by the Government, not this House of Commons. So if we look at just what's been done in nature parks and national parks for the past 10 years, what they look like, what they look like today, then we can say whether the existing system was good or we can improve it, and even that agency, but based on some data. But what you said on behalf of the club is that one of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law is actually to extend the concession to individual concessionaries but not to all, because we have some other examples where new laws are not passed until some potential concessionaries are prepared and then some flat-rate solutions are made in a year. And prevailing public interest in the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so with all this, which is simply an additional marginalisation of the Croatian Parliament, and if the Croatian Parliament is marginalised then Croatian citizens are marginalized because we are their representatives. So obviously a bug threw itself into the ear of the people to have fun with it, and it wanted to become something completely different and it was basically the real plan of 21 Kukuriku coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42497	Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42498	It is true that what you say, provisions on the prevailing public interest will be brought somewhere in the halls and towers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So you can see that this proposal for a law on nature protection has not passed an adequate public debate. When she was conducted in May last year, dozens of objections. Imagine if the professional public had now consulted what it would have been and would have come. Instead of focusing on what the Ministry of Nature Protection is responsible for protecting nature must be the first concern, that we have an inventory of 30% of biodiversity within Nature 2000, that we need to raise that inventory to know how we will determine this dominant interest, so that we know how we will bring the provision and we do not do it... but we want to extend the deadline for obtaining concessions. I'm asking you if when we're not really happy with the concessionary, if we're going to see through his fingers sometime, especially if he's close to us, especially if he's got a nice plan for 21 Kukuriku coalition, then are we going to be so stable, so determined and so firm that we're going to spend all our professional assumptions as we are now when we don't even respect them in public debate. I think that's why you and I are concerned, and I believe all the professional public are concerned about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42499	Thank you very much. Honored representative Stjepan Milinkovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42500	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Mesic, it's nice to hear that we have a long tradition in nature protection. It is also good to say that in the wider European frameworks we have a relatively well-preserved environment that we are obliged to leave behind for generations and therefore worry about this finding that this is not the Nature Protection Act, but to facilitate investors to do this or that. I come from a region that has truly exceptional values of landscapes, nature and we were in situations where we had to resist megalomanic projects and we did something about it. But we also see and come from a region that, in the energy needs of our homeland, participates a lot and sees chimneys big and always wonders what and how even though these studies are always 100% good, but we always think about whether we feel that smell, the smell of those sulfurs, as they say those rotten eggs or anything else. That's what's worrying, and in that part of it, I see a particular danger to our rural areas, which are truly here in many areas, we have extraordinary values of nature. And now if, therefore, if agriculture is ruined, if the environment still destroys us in some way, so what are we going to offer to those who will be happy to come to that end. What we're going to offer, so there's no B of that benefit that says that the local environment could pull something, and really in that part we have to express a great deal of concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42501	Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42502	Ma colleague Milinkovic you are absolutely right to lift my replica board because I have not succeeded enough in my presentation on behalf of the club to highlight the nature, natural heritage with the local community, and you as a man from the field who is constantly in the middle where in the local elections you get absolutely well acquainted with it and I must say that your replica is in place and that I accept everything you have told me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42503	Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42504	Dear counterpart Mesic, you are absolutely right when you say that the local community must not be excluded in any way from the decision-making process, from the process of active protection of nature and the environment. I don't know if you spoke or Mr. Bacic talked about it. The representative bodies of local self-government shall not be excluded from those decisions. Just thanks to the local community today, we have one of the most preserved natures in Europe. Besides, who knows more about this nature in their own area than local self-government. Everything seems to me that you're absolutely right when you said that this law is being passed not to make it better for nature but to allow for an extension of the time limit for concessions. It was said earlier, the minister said more favourable investment conditions are being created. I'm afraid by an investment climate, under quotes the climate will be disrupted by the climate created by nature. And just as nature in Croatia is the greatest treasure, nature protection is the biggest investment, it is actually the most strategically successful investment. With regard to the agency, I completely disagree with you, and I think that the agency makes sense and that nature protection would be much more effective through the agency, and yet 90 agencies that don't work don't worry anyone but it's really hurt the agency that's proposed. The last thing you're right about is saying everything in the hands of the government and let's go to the office system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42505	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42506	I'll try to concentrate on what we disagree on. Dear colleague, I'm sticking to the recommendation of the profession, what you say is who's drunk is floating. And when an international team of experts here makes the recommendation he made for me there's a debate on whether I think or not I mean the end. Because this isn't about some ideological political attitude. This is about the interest of protecting nature and natural heritage. So I think that's where every dilemma agency ends that, no, now, for 10 years. Because this very promotion of the system leads to one day potentially creating assumptions about the agency. In that sense, there are recommendations. And what about concessioning, so imagine what great economic wisdom is given to concessions on catering facilities on Plitvice Lakes, which is deep, which is great wisdom, which is the plan, which is not to say the achievement of thinking about our future. Well, anyone can do that. Anyone can do that. You take what someone did, you take what's in the local community, you pick up a concessionary, you crack it for 50 years, you pick up something every year, and you don't care about everything else. It is precisely wisdom to master nature and natural protected areas in an adequate way, not to leave it out of your hands because it is thus precise in the basic documents of this Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, it is considered worldwide if the income of $25 per hectare, if we include it as a benefit that it is considered to achieve good benefits from nature and natural heritage. In Croatia, the benefit per hectare is almost $80. Thank you very much. That says it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42507	Thank you, Your Honor. Fifth replica and respected representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42508	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Mesic, you said in your opening part that it was not necessary to pass this law at this time, and I think it should have been brought in a long time ago and I think I'll be agreed by the Maloston Bay breeders. Namely, let me tell you again that it's been since '98. By 2005 there was a riot in that segment, chaos on concessions to grow without order, without control, without supervision. It was only in 2005 that it legalized the existing. After that, however, there was nothing. This law in Article 114, in effect, allows for cultivation and thus introduces order into this area. However, here I must stress that by intensive farming of shells that are likely to happen that even more predators will actually come to this area, and therefore I expect what the minister said will actually arrange for the rules and this area so that there will be a balance in this unique eco system. And I'm also going to ask you a question from a colleague who you said was not the time. Why didn't your government do anything in this area to make order in the Bay of Maloston? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42509	Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42510	I'll tell you again 20 million dollars we got from the World Bank for Nature Protection and System Promotion, $20 million. You're in no condition to withdraw the 5th thing the government has set up. In 2005, the ministry conducted a study on environmental protection, conducted a public tender and arranged the Bay of Maloston area so that shelling activity could be carried out there, but I will tell you something about it in an individual debate, and I believe my colleague Bačić. So it's just not true. Why isn't this the time to pass this law? Because you will leave the possibility of making political decisions on the prevailing public interest in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you have not carried out an inventory of the NATURA 2000 area, and you will make a decision on this particular area. How are you going to make a decision? Based on what criteria? Based on the moon's changes? You need to implement it precisely so that you can make such decisions and then you can eventually make them according to some criteria, not in this way. That is why the law is passed, and yet we will have to change it by joining the EU, that is what I am talking about. That's why there was no time for an adequate public debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42511	Thank you very much. And now he has a word from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the Proposer. Here are Ministers Mikhail Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42512	Thank you very much, Mr. President, fellow MPs. Unfortunately, I say, unfortunately, protecting nature while it was inside the Ministry of Culture was the last hole in the play. The following facts prove that. Unfortunately, he's trying to manipulate facts and data here. Mr. Mesic The World Bank did not give us $20 million, but you have raised a $20 million loan that will be paid back by future generations, and in your mandate you have not realised any project from that loan. Not one! Everything that has been realized has been realised in the last year and a half, except in your term a rested firehouse in a municipality has been restored under cover of governance and maintenance of biodiversity. Those are the results. When you talk about GEF, the Global Environmental Fund, when you talk about it for three years is available. You haven't been able to arrange a $5 million GEF gift you're talking about. This was agreed in our mandate a year ago and this GEF gift is funded and the study that you are talking about today, an analysis of how we will manage protected areas as a basis for withdrawal and donation. The Ministry is working on it, and it's in realisation. To say that the law did not really mean not knowing the system of management protected parts of nature, i.e. the system of nature. Why? Because this existing law in certain parts was absolutely inconclusive. When we talk about investors and the investment climate, is it not our mission and government, but also all Croatian Parliaments, to ensure that it also delivers such regulations that are enforceable, which will enable the achievement of the objectives guaranteed by the Constitution, which is to preserve the natural resources of the Croatian nature on the one hand, but also enable economic development and economic growth. These are two goals that can go hand in hand. And by this law, which was necessary, this law allows it. It's incorrect that only 30% of the inventory of species and habitats in the NATURA area is incorrect. 100% of all species, all habitats are inventoryd. So please don't misinformed the public. And what's been going on in the last 15 years in terms of the biodiversity of the ecological network is what you know very well. And finally, when we talk about nature, the child has returned to the mother and is organized within the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature where the ministry which has high priorities for nature conservation and environmental protection. You also spoke of the high wisdom of concessioning, etc. I believe that counsel Shuker will be able to talk a lot about the concessions given from the waste management area. I believe a lot more about it than in the area of nature. But when we talk about the existing law that you adopted, the previous government allowed concessions to be given in protected parts of nature. So it's not any newspaper. It is the fact that the maximum time limit is being extended, and the specific investment is based on the concession law, which is an optimal time limit for a country which provides certain resources in the concession itself. We also believe that certain activities that are not the basic activity of public institutions, which is a hotel, a catering activity, will work more efficiently by someone who specializes in this. That, I agree, is not some wisdom, I agree, is something to be learned in high school economics, but unfortunately it has not been spent so far. For 10 years, no administrative supervision of 19 public institutions with 400 million kuna, which employs 1,600 people, has been carried out. No administrative surveillance has been performed for 10 years. You know what we've established over the past few years when administrative surveillance was being conducted? The fact that there was such economic wisdom that with that money besides the other picnics were financed by sports clubs, bought together vehicles, etc. This economic wisdom we are talking about here and I am sure that this law, and all the activities of the ministry, will in the future go towards improving that system because it is something that represents national wealth and what we must protect and protect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42513	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Six replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42514	Dear Mr. Minister, no matter how much respect you owe me, except for the firehouses you mentioned, you said everything wrong. Show that 100% inventory, it would be good for the public to see and give the law to a public debate if exactly what you're saying is true. Have a public debate, show it to us and to the professional public, show it. And it's not true that nothing was done in what you said nothing was done in the term of the last year of the last government. I've listed that taxicab for you. And you don't have to say that it's all done in the last year and a half when I know well when we started setting up, say, telemetric fire protection systems. I know well what projects we have funded in Žumberak Nature Park, which is well known to you. And then don't say that we funded firehouses because we know well, and you and I, that it's just not true. We know well that there have been new nature parks in the area. We know very well that it went into process standardisation. And as for the board of directors and boards, that's my favorite subject. So, when there was a change of government and after that, there is no way that any appropriate expert could have been found in the boards. Your party's local councilors were put in, and it's massive because it was thought to be going quickly to the establishment of the agency. So don't talk about some things that you absolutely, absolutely don't contribute to. If nothing had happened, then today you wouldn't have had something to dispose of if it hadn't been for the past 15 years because it would have been destroyed. And if we go this way that you recommend in law, it will only happen to us that it will be too late to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42515	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42516	Well, look at the minister's corn standard when you don't have the arguments, then you're pounding. And if someone Mr. Minister is spreading misinformation, then you're spreading them. So when you talk about the World Bank's loan, then you should at least have a minimum of knowledge that these are the most favourable loans that can be obtained on the financial market. Wait a minute. Nobody said it wasn't a loan, so. What's with the choir singing, so the minister's got a story turned around and we'll hear that story till the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42517	Mr. Representative, proceed with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42518	Since you did not allow me as chairman Now I had to listen to the choir singing. [[I did, I did. Go ahead.]] So it is generally known that the projects financed by the World Bank are the most favourable loans that can be obtained on the market at that time. According to why someone did not take advantage of or use that loan, it depends on who the program was designed for. So that's one thing, and credit is another thing. However, these concession stories are very interesting. There are likely to be books written in Croatia on these concessions and some respects regarding concessions, especially some cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42519	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42520	Thank you very much. Well, the Honorable Minister again said he was talking about concessions, and I don't think it goes into my head that he insists that here so far no one's thought of conjecturing catering activities in the national park, and there were possibilities. Well, I guess there was a reason he didn't remember. Can you tell us who will compensate for the funds earned through the catering activity and were an integral part of the business of national parks. Are they profitable or non-profit institutions? What will national parks and all employees do in the future when private investors come and build on existing foundations what you allow them to do? Obviously, you're prepping something already in advance when you say that 30% can make more surfaces on all existing foundations than the former ones, so there are already interested ones. Are we turning national parks into stationary tourism or are we forgetting that there's some kind of field trip that people come on one-day trips and they don't need accommodation? We give guarantees through a certain agency and it's first-class state guarantees that private people can open companies and hire, so why don't we give one such guarantee to a national park so they can make 5-star hotels if we don't have them, but we have to give foreigners that they make money. What happens if you concentrate? Where will SDP representatives or SDP politicians rest if Brijuni go to a concession? Where will she rest? Then there's no more 7 kunas. But that's where we're going? If we're in a position to think about selling the i.e. Concesting the most important activities in national parks to give it to foreign investors, and let's say in Kornati National Park, we defend the people who made some kind of house there to have it and we want to bring it down is the question of who do we do it for?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42521	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42522	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister and I noticed this claim to be a few firehouses, in a way that I didn't like because we didn't make a statement about our artistic experience of someone's confession, but thank God we clicked on them to be restored and they were built up. And it's a good relationship to fire that is a part of our lives mainly in northwestern Croatia in those parts that I come from. The contribution of the fire department is immeasurable and important and the relationship before a short time ago, as part of the Fire Department, we said that it was disturbing and inappropriate to neglect voluntary fire. Voluntary fires in my middle last year on 15 interventions came out by putting out fires in these beautiful parts of nature and I am grateful to them for that. And now if this is set up that the fire department doesn't matter, then what will be the relationship to that nature if the fire department that protects that nature is related to it in this way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42523	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative of Mrela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42524	Dear Minister, I think it's clear now that HDZ is completely malicious to the public and for what? Because the applicable Nature Protection Act enables the concession of activities in nature parks and that is the law that has been passed by your majority. What you've been trying to say all along is that national parks or nature parks will go into concessions is a notorious lie and you know it very well. So it's just that in those areas where it's proven to be a completely deficiting way of managing catering facilities and hotels, and that's all I want to mention is the fact that in Plitvice Lakes hotels are heated on the mamut, so in one area under UNESCO's protection, hotels are heated on the mamut. You don't have a sewer system, and that doesn't bother you at all, but you're worried about the possibility of making concessions and selecting very defined conditions for the manager with these hotels to manage these hotels according to the sustainability criteria, means that he's doing thermofasades, that he's using renewable energy sources, that he's using the lamb he got from local suppliers, so he's looking for lamb and not lamb from Australia, which is happening today. That doesn't worry at all. And that national parks and nature parks really become motors of local community development. What you're doing is a simple demagogy and you're trying in the lowest ways to motivate the public with a baukom of some alleged concession over national parks, nature parks, so I think it's really wrong because you've passed the law, you that allows concessions. And you've been doing it all over a series of parks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42525	Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure in what?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42526	Well, Mr. Chairman, you should have warned the MP, the distinguished representative Holly, to replicate the minister, not the HDZ Club, because he didn't speak to the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42527	Dear Representative Mirela Holly, please don't call your ex-boyfriend again. That's what everybody knows who did it. Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42528	Thank you, Mr. President. Then I can also respond to my colleague Holly as she did not replicate to Mr. Minister but replicated the Croatian Democratic Community Club. It is not true, Mrs Holly, dear colleagues, that the Croatian Democratic Community Club is misleading the public. Speaking of the law, how this law introduces the possibility of concessioning. In fact, it is not true that the government of the Croatian Democratic Community has in the past councils concentrated spaces in protected coastal, protected areas of nature. Like what? Let's say, I'm going to give two examples, the first example is the ACI Marina Pishker on the Kornati, you know that the government is not even its own state-owned company, and this has made it possible for the ACI to make concessions and to carry out the work of nautical tourism in the Kornati National Park. It's one thing and another. We did not even allow the port administration, the County Port Authority in Istria to enable and be a concessionary at the port of Brijuni to establish a regular line between Fažana and Brijuni. Therefore, it does not stand for your position, your statement that we on the one hand call the Ministry or the Government to try to concession and that we have done it before, so we have not and that is not true. So, the Croatian Democratic Community Club did not deceive the public here but is talking about how the government has now started concessioning in protected areas of nature. And one more thing, Mr. Minister, when you call the former Governments about nature protection, how you then interpret that you are, even on the board this morning and today in your opening explanation, saying that the environment in the Republic of Croatia and nature in the Republic of Croatia is excellently protected, that even at a higher level than in many Member States of the European Union. If we hadn't been so good at protecting the environment and nature, you wouldn't be able to make such a statement today on the Committee or here in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42529	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the Honorable Representative Damir Mateljan and the second part the respected representative Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42530	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Right at the beginning, so there is no confusion, and I will repeat it and eventually the SDP Club will support the Final Proposal of the Nature Protection Act. Croatia is rightly proud of its preserved nature because nature is one of the most basic resources this country has. We all know or should at least know the definition of nature, which is biodiversity and landscape diversity. Of course, biodiversity is made up of plants, animals and their habitats while different geomorphological forms, waterways, speciological objects make up landscape diversity. Therefore, the general objective of environmental protection is thus to preserve the diversity of different biotops, plant and animal species, the biological balance between different populations, the uniqueness of landscapes. But at the same time, this law takes into account the needs of the people who use these habitats. The creation of a new Nature Protection Act has been approached due to the observed shortcomings of the applicable Nature Protection Act in terms of its structure, partial conductivity and the visible need to improve certain parts of the nature protection system to the Republic of Croatia. Also... The structure of the pronunciation of the Law and the alignment with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the new Law on concessions has also been achieved and further harmonisation of the provisions of the Protection Directive, on habitats, on the excuse and on the Birds Directive, which is why this Act has a P.Z.E. mark. It is also necessary to point out that the Nature Protection Act received a positive statement from the Commission, the European Commission in February 2013, which highlighted the very quality of the extremely good structure of this Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In certain areas such as the definition, declaration and preservation of protected areas and the management of protected areas, this Law introduces a series of improvements such as clearly determining categories of protected areas of national importance compared to those of local importance. The possibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a public institution with two or more national parks or parks of nature, i.e. a public institution for managing all protected areas of national importance. The adoption of plans and management and annual work programmes is exclusively a voice from the Ministry or body of the unit of local, regional or regional self-government. The introduction of additional operating control mechanisms for public institutions operating protected areas, the abolition of first purchase rights in protected areas except in national parks, strict and special reserves to facilitate real estate traffic. Additional arrangement of the system, award of concession approvals in protected areas, and the assignment of direct surveillance operations in protected areas, nature keepers. This law also introduces provisions in accordance with the need for implementation... the access protocol... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the resources of the equal distribution of profits resulting from their use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The introduction of these provisions stems from the knowledge that the Republic of Croatia has ratified this Protocol within the next year in accordance with the dynamics of the ratification process of the other Member States of the European Union. One of the biggest fams, in fact one of the biggest lies that is trying to serve the public is how the Nature Protection Act, not only this Final Proposal of the Nature Protection Act, but how nature protection generally stops, interferes with various projects and investments. Nature protection can't be an excuse for bad preparation and project management whether they're infrastructure, whether they're strategic, capital, or whether they're regular. Therefore, the requirement of a part of the business public to reduce the percentage of territory entering the ecological network is unacceptable and is in fact a reflection of the complete ignorance of matter. Croatia's accession to the world's largest ecological network, or the European ecological network Natura 2000, is not just a commitment... The European Union, it is not an agreement to the high standards that we have agreed to when we have decided to be members of the European Union, but is above all a commitment to ourselves or to our future generations. I repeat, therefore, avoiding obligations towards the protection of nature and the environment cannot be an excuse for not implementing certain projects. In the Republic of Croatia, since 2007, we have been conducting an impact assessment on the ecological network on 47% of land territory, and so far no project has let us say that stopped nature. And what awaits us when we become a member of the European Union? Here are a few examples. So throughout the European Union, in all 27 countries, only 14 projects in the past 15 years have identified the need to determine the prevailing public interest. So far experience has shown by the State Nature Protection Institute since 2007 that 90% of the demands so far have resulted in an assessment that there is no significant impact on the ecological network and a solution to the acceptability of the operation has been issued and this procedure has lasted about 90 days. The latest research co-ordinated in the meantime by the State Nature Protection Institute is now significantly more accurate and the percentage of the land area is down to 37%. Furthermore, in accordance with the European Union Directives, from now on, the acceptance assessment will be carried out only on conservation targets, not on the entire ecological network. In line with all the above, assumptions were created that, without any danger to the quality of the procedure, the deadline for issuing a solution of acceptance from 90 days was reduced to 30 days, and that the whole procedure was actually legally limited to 30 days, which is included in this Final Proposal for Nature Protection Law. Nature 2000 and thus the aim of this law is the co-existence of man and nature, which is naturally included in the proposal of this law because nature protection is no threat to investment, nature protection is not a threat to sustainable development, nature protection is not a threat to the survival of rural areas because life in protected areas is no handicap, it is actually an advantage and it is actually a privilege. In Europe today, only tourism consumption in Nature 2000 is between 50 billion and 85 billion euros each year, spending nearly 10 billion euros annually on recreation in these areas alone. Finally, it is necessary to say that at its 7th session on 22 March, the Croatian Parliament adopted the proposal for a Law on Nature Protection and addressed the applicant with observations, proposals and opinions in order to prepare a final draft of the law. The ministry accepted part of the proposal and incorporated it into a draft final bill. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The reasons why these remarks were not accepted are a very detailed explanation in the law, at the end of that law that you have on your benches. So in the SDP club, we are thinking, to return to the beginning, that this Final Bill on the Protection of Nature respects and fulfils its basic task, which is to protect the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia in a way that takes into account the needs of the people who use these habitats and thus enables nature protection not to be an obstacle but a basis for developing protected areas in the Republic of Croatia and therefore the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42531	Thank you, too. About environmental protection, part two, respected representative Mirela Holy on behalf of the Croatian SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42532	So at the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support this Final Proposal for the Environmental Protection Act, and I would like to commend to my colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature on a well done job and one quality law, therefore to the roof law in the field of environmental protection to which a whole series of other laws cover environmental components, such as the Law on Waters, the Law on Forests, the Law on Air Protection, the Law on Waste, the Law on Light pollution, the Law on Safety against Noise, the Law on GMOs and others. This is an extremely important law because it sets out all the instruments, mechanisms and procedures related to environmental protection and, of course, the most important processes are environmental impact assessment, strategic environmental impact assessment, environmental outcomes, key documents, plans and strategies, environmental protection inspection procedures and procedures in case of incidents, incidents and others. The most important steps in relation to the applicable law in this law are to raise the quality of the environmental impact assessment process, which has been the weakest link for many years, i.e. the point in the overall environmental protection system in the Republic of Croatia, and as the European Commission has also pointed out. Therefore, this law will strengthen the environmental impact assessment process by means of certain instruments, raising the responsibility of environmental impact study authorities in such a way that they can, if they do not do their job well and quality, be faced with the loss of the licence and to 5 years after which they are entitled both as natural persons and as legal persons, re-apply with a request for authorisation to do this job. I deeply believe that this will raise the quality of environmental impact assessment procedures and that here we will have a positive step in that part, although the draft law has defined that the study will continue to be financed by the processholders, and that the selection of authorisation holders will be carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection due to an extremely large number of objections made during the public debate not only by the economy and the authorising officer but also by the civil sector. It gave up this idea and we decided to strengthen the environmental impact assessment mechanism in this way. Another very important thing that this law adopts is the detailed process of strategic environmental impact assessment, which has so far been mentioned in several articles in the current law. It is very important to correct and move the deadlines for the environmental authorisation until the test work of the facility, not until the location of the permit as it has been the case so far, and this has made life very difficult for all investors in the Republic of Croatia. It is good that sublaws will also define the systems of the so-called system. Checklist for individual frequent environmental impact assessment procedures, since unfortunately, we now experience very often situations that study makers, i.e. the mandaters, provide advisory committees with studies that have over 1000 pages. However, in these 1,000 pages you can find a whole series of data and observations that are not at all important for the project itself and those key parameters to which a study should be answered are not mentioned. Therefore, the checklist system will define exactly what key questions some studies need to answer, and this will greatly facilitate the work of not only authorities, but also people sitting in advisory committees, as they will be able to see in a relatively short format what specific impacts are on the environment of a project. It is an excellent provision relating to drawing lines on valid old environmental impact studies, i.e. those which were conducted before 2007 when the Environmental Protection Act defined that the study, i.e. the solution to the acceptance of a study, is worth two years after which the deadline can be extended. Now, and they mean the studies that were passed before 2007 actually had an unlimited duration. This law changes this and will no longer be able to happen situations such as the Ombla hydropower plant project, which has an environmental impact study, i.e. a solution to the acceptability of environmental interventions and from the end of the 09s, and in the meantime has changed a lot. Sublegal regulations also need to develop the possibilities for the realization of innovative new technological solutions that often come from our innovators experts, which are not on the list of NRTs or the best available technologies so that we do not close the possibility of Croatia being positioned as a country that has new ecological, better and more acceptable technologies. And finally several SDP proposals for possible improvement of the law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The first part of the proposal concerns the third article, Article 3(3), which states that environmental procedures may affect the quality of life, human health, plant and animal life within the framework of sustainable development. Since this article otherwise already defines the need to adhere to sustainable development guidelines in the implementation of projects, we do not think that such a bit of a clumsy statement is necessary. In Article 4(1), point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 48 mentions a waste burning plant, and we would like to draw attention to the fact that modern waste treatment technologies go in terms of thermal waste treatment, rather than more incineration. In fact, such technologies as plasma, fermentation, etc. are developing today, so the process of steaming catalytic depolymerisation, which contains certain temperatures, cooling of waste, may be more appropriate for such plants to call waste treatment plants rather than waste burning plants. Furthermore, Article 34 on environmental protection entities mentions a whole range of different institutions that are obliged to, therefore, ensure environmental protection and sustainable development, but does not mention anywhere public television and media what we think should be inserted in view of the fact that, at the end of the day and in the Law on HRT, public television is obliged to promote environmental protection, sustainable development and to work on public awareness of the need to preserve the environment. So here is the advice to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to supplement it. In Article 52, as regards environmental plans of the Republic of Croatia, paragraph 6 states that the supervision of the implementation of the environmental protection plan is carried out by the Ministry. In view of the fact that the Ministry is developing a plan for environmental protection and that Article 58 of the Environment Report provides for the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and that an analysis of the implementation of the measures contained in the environmental protection plan should be made of the basis for monitoring the implementation of the plan by the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a report on the state of the environment. And here it is, at the very end of the great commendation of another Ministry of Environmental Protection on a very high-quality bill proposal and at the SDP club, we are sure that this law will raise the quality of environmental impact assessment and strategic environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42533	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas on your exhibit. It is up to the esteemed representative Branko Bačić and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42534	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Holly, you say that this law introduces and enables strategic environmental impact assessment, which is a step forward in relation to the existing law and that the existing law does not explain it in such a way. And I agree with you that this bill better defined the obligation to develop a strategic environmental impact assessment. And it's a good thing it's such an approach. However, at the same time as the Ministry is working on a proposal for the Environmental Protection Act, the Minister of Environment and Nature has since 25 March this year provided the Minister of Spatial Planning with an opinion on the amendments and additions to the Spatial Arrangement Strategy, and says that if the reason for the amendment and the completion of the strategy is partly and hastily resolving certain economic issues in the Republic of Croatia, in this case this ministry has no objection to the proposal in question, which it says should not be working on a strategy. I think, therefore, that we are passing this law in order to declare that we support nature protection, to satisfy NGOs, the interested public, perhaps the European Commission, but when the government needs to comply with this law or on the basis of these considerations about the need to protect nature and then act differently. Either we protect nature by adopting strategies and appropriate documents to protect the environment or we don't. We can't impose the need for individual strategies or any other document only if it suits us, and if it suits us then we won't. In fact, either we will protect nature or we will not protect it from proceedings to proceedings, we will act in accordance with the need of an individual moment or individual project.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42535	Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42536	Dear colleague Bačić, I agree with you, and I believe that strategic documents such as the Strategy for Spatial Development should be carried out regardless of whether a new Spatial Development Strategy is adopted by 2015 or whether changes and additions to that strategy need to be carried out strategic environmental impact assessment. However, I draw your attention to a very important fact, which is that the current law defines that a strategic environmental impact assessment is being carried out for plans and programmes. It doesn't say it's being implemented for strategies. Which, I think, is a very big failure. But this failure actually enables solutions like this, where the process of assessing the need to conduct a strategic environmental impact assessment is then implemented. And as far as the formal reasons are concerned, the procedure is satisfied. I agree with you that strategies as plans for all plans should be on a strategic environmental impact assessment and therefore I particularly welcome the provisions in this law that have introduced that the strategic environmental impact assessment should be carried out both on strategies and on plans and programmes and not only on the plans and programmes as defined by your Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42537	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42538	Dear colleagues Holly and here in the Parliament in almost all public debates about being a public media mentioning HRT. You said HRT was obliged to promote the protection of nature and the environment. It's perfectly normal, it's clear to everyone. However, HRT is entertained by itself. HRT is fun by eliminating emissions, moving people, human beings, it is fun with its own uncleanness and conscience, and also by the law that allows it so it finds more and more holes in the law day by day so that they can do all the things that HRT shouldn't do. They don't deal with nature's purity and they won't deal with nature's purity. However, it is the guilt of another bad law that we have passed right here in the Croatian Parliament and that the Croatian Parliament has never felt that things really go badly on HRT in time called for those responsible on HRT to leave the verse, and only when the power changes then these questions are raised again and for 4 years the same happens. Those who listen, they can do whatever they want on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42539	Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42540	Well, my colleague, I agree with you that the situation on national television is far from good and quality, but I think it is a very large role for us MPs and MPs in the Assembly to try through our public-political actions to positively influence the fact that the situation of HTV as a public service still rises to some higher quality. And for this reason, we have also suggested that entities be included in public television, or media, because media play an extremely large role in raising public awareness of the importance of environmental and nature conservation. And I hope the government will consider it. Unfortunately, some time ago on HTV, the idea of eliminating a quality show dealing with specific environmental protection and nature protection issues appeared. It's the Eco Zone. Fortunately for us, we still have the Eco Area, not perhaps in the most acceptable time, but we do have and I hope that Croatia's television in the future will pay even more attention to these issues and not only in specific emissions but also through reporting in information shows such as the News Diaries, and not only through those current situations, but also in general, positively affecting the awareness of Croatian citizens about the importance of preserving the environment and nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42541	I ask you this is to organize a round table, whether a legal person or a conscience or whether he may have a flaw of will. And now respected representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42542	Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There is no reward or punishment in nature, there are only consequences. This law, when it comes to Croatia, should ensure that these consequences are as low as possible, as mild as possible and as undetectable. But if nature had as many laws as the state had, it probably could not have been ruled by God. He couldn't or could've known. I bow to those who consider this law to be one of the most important for the survival of not only us contemporaries but many generations behind us should carry out another debate and respect some of the logical by nature of rescue remarks and ideas. By joining the EU, Croatia is left without a national ecological network and becomes part of a European ecological network called NATURA 2000. According to the current Nature Protection Act, natural impact assessment should work on areas of the entire national ecological network, covering 47% of the land and 39% of the sea territory of the Republic of Croatia. Soon when we become part of NATURA 2000% land and more than 20% sea territory, the Republic of Croatia loses its protected status. In all these protected areas to date, procedures are possible without the prescribed procedures, an assessment of the impact on nature. Although a man with his spiritual abilities has discovered a great number of inventions studies us by great Leonardo that Vinci will never discover the discovery that will surpass nature by beauty, simplicity, the directness in which creation lacks nothing and nothing is excessive, except the often uncontrollable influence of people, human intervention, and then nature rebelles. Why is it important to preserve the national ecological network? For a simple, practical natural reason. NATURA 2000 covers areas for the conservation of species at risk at EU level and protected by the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. The national ecological network also enables the conservation of species at risk at the level of Europe as well as species and habitat types at country level. It should be pawned if we really want to protect nature for a higher degree of protection and preservation, for a higher degree than that predicted by NATURA 2000. Another danger to Croatia's natural heritage arises, namely this law of the original so far protected Croatian breed of animals, such as the horse of Posavina, such as the Posavina goose, is placed under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, which, of course, loses additional importance and necessary protection. The danger to nature, and then the danger to society of a politicised society, is the fact that the State Institute for Nature Protection is losing its independence so far. What's he losing for? Because it will be supervised by the Zmajlovic Ministry of Environmental Protection and, judging by many solutions, the ministry of protection of the political interests of the party or coalition in power. We are just missing members of the ruling coalition at their party sessions to vote on the ammunition of protected wildlife and the re-use of protected parks in construction zones. Although, from time to time, in times of intense courtship, the authorities are given promises of decentralisation and authority and of funds that local self-government will decide on an increasing number of life issues and this law proves that it is only pre-election tricks that no one will believe alive anymore. The role of the unit of local self-government to decide on protected areas is less than currently foreseen by the current Nature Protection Act. Thanks to who they are to this day, it is only to the local community, to the local self-government until today's protected nature parks, and when the state did not take special care of them. Thanks to the units of local self-government, this concern has been constant, and the local community knows best the natural resources of its region, the most intense it protects them. After all, who has the greatest interest in preserving natural resources? It's just a local community. Therefore, to reduce the role or exclude the local community from the decision on protected natural resources and areas is highly harmful, unnatural. It's actually the most harmful thing in the long term. The local self - administration that has preserved nature by its love and March should be extended, not reduced by powers. Although the draft Nature Protection Act envisioned the resuscitation of the National Park Agency, there is neither in the first reading nor in the final proposal of the parking agency. It is not available despite the fact that the part of the profession is such a new body from which the idea would be more meaningful, more efficient, cheaper and more elaborately managed by the National Parks. Minister Zmajlovic argues in public appearances that there are no national park agencies in the Law because the best management models are being sought. And without analysis, they won't, says the minister, they find those models. And when will I ask myself these effective management models are found? If there's a deadline, if it's time, if it's this decade, if it's five decades from now, no one knows. The minister doesn't say anything about that. And after a year and a half of government, the Kukuriku coalition is looking for human resources and looking for models. The problems will be solved in another term. I guess, I'm actually sure I'm some other government. Instead of offering a solution to the management of Croatian national natural goods, legislators were entertained by bureaucratic procedures and procedures so that the Nature Protection Act and the Environmental Protection Act resembled sublaws, rules, regulations and regulations. The SDP remembers the election campaign for Parliament promised to reform environmental protection, nature protection. In 2011, the Kukuriku coalition loudly advocated the establishment of a national agency. Why is she even important? And who does it matter to anyway? It is important because it would finally be in the strategy of managing the most valuable goods that Croatia still has in abundance. But we all remember well, and we all know that many Croatian governments have proved themselves to be recordmakers in destroying the very abundance we mention. So this abundance could be managed from one center, which is why the agency needs it. It doesn't matter if about 400 million kunas are more rational. Instead of buying field cars worth just a little less than a hundred thousand euros, it could be invested in capital projects to protect nature. Perhaps that would prevent political clientism. This may prevent 19 directors from having 19 policies to protect nature. It may thus prevent small money from being spent on projects that do not have some solid, touching points with environmental protection and nature protection but have to do with protecting party favorites that need to be arrested. Opponents of establishing a national park agency sigh and shake hands and say why another agency. Another one of a hundred. But another one, unlike these 90 and something meaningful. Another needed, most needed. The one who's got something to do, and it's decades in advance. And let's say those unnecessary agencies, the ones whose clerks after a few years of existence say they can't do anything because they're not teamed up and they don't really know what their job is. They don't quit. No one slows them down. Against such agencies, the "see the devil" Kukuriku coalition does not object. I don't repeat them, it doesn't ask for meaning, it doesn't want to team up those agencies to work, it doesn't want to analyze them. As the most efficient way of managing Croatian national, national parks is not analysed. Because if it were analyzed, we'd have seen those analyses before. And certainly, on the basis of these analyses, we are today passing this Law. In Croatia, however, it is customary, especially in the Croatian Parliament, to pass laws without having any necessary analysis. This is without analysis, without a desire to start anything from a dead end, except that further deaths allow the government, without questions and opinions of the Parliament, not only to manage the models and how to manage national goods, the greatest national treasure, nature, but also to regulate them. Although he argues that the national parks management system is not nakaradan and Minister Zmajlovic agrees that it needs to be improved. It is necessary to improve the control of the management of national parks especially when it is known that administrative supervision has not been carried out over national parks and nature parks for almost 12 years. Money is spent by hard Minister Zmajlovic illegally. Isn't illegal spending of state money a profit? It's actually one of the biggest nakaradas. Unlawful spending of money is the kind of theft, so it turns out by Croatian regulations that thefts are not narcissistic. The thefts are common in Croatia and still pay off. The establishment of a parking agency would be a crash and only because someone came up with a nice name for the agency says Minister Zmajlovic. But we should bear in mind that the benefits of effective nature protection, the benefits of effective environmental protection, are invaluable as the damage is done because of insufficient protection of nature is equally invaluable, irreparable, and irreparable. In politics, the basic reading of anyone who tries to deal with politics or the management of social wealth, Aristotle says nature does nothing in vain. Politicians do many things in vain, politicians often work against nature and against logic and against the general good. There's no greater general good than nature and people whose nature is absolutely necessary. Therefore, all political reasons should be put aside and the law should be passed by consensus because no one has the right to play with nature and the environment and to pass laws without any analysis. The consensus for this bill will not be written because it will not have the votes of the Labourist. Out of that crowd of unlisted votes, they will not have a vote from the Labourist. We are in favour of another reading of the law and further public debate and of course respecting the opinion of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42543	Thank you very much. They're following the replicas. First honorary colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vukšić, you mentioned local self-government here on several occasions and said that local self-government knew how to take care of protected parts of nature. Now we might as well list the other part for cultural goods. But I'll say that local self-government probably knew how to do it but she couldn't do it so she couldn't say it planically except for honorable exceptions she could protect such parts of her territory because she didn't have the means to do it. So at this point, even now, what he was and what he was still like before this law was passed, I definitely repeat local self-government, except for honorable exceptions, there is no power and the ability to protect parts of nature. So surely in the future of this period, and also Mr. Minister himself comes from local self-government, he was mayor and he knows this issue well, I am convinced that he did not work to harm local self-government with his associates when he was preparing this law. I think that in that part too, I agree with you, local self-government must play a role in that determination of consent and consensus in solving certain problems, but it certainly needs to be resolved the issue of financing protection because there is always a problem. Some law is passed at the state level, which should then be applied, and no one has passed any other financial law, that something will be financed, and that is where the problem arises. And then we come to the fact that local self-government can't basically do what it's supposed to do, so in nature it's a little different, if there's nothing going on there, we can't say that it was even protected. At this point, it is necessary to strengthen the role of local self-government absolutely in agreement with that part, but financing needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42545	Thank you. The replica corresponds to a respected colleague, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42546	Dear colleague Hrg, of course, with no money local self-government a little bit of what it can do. In addition, in all these discussions so far about all these other laws of the Law on Education and Laws of Other Activities, it has been said that local self-government has less and less money and that the stories of that decentralisation that the Kukurik coalition was talking about at the beginning are actually empty letters either on paper or in front of journalists. The local self-government protected nature because, rather, I would say the local community, because it cares about that nature, because it is blended with it and it is quite certain that local self-government should be one of the equal factors in protecting the environment in nature and that the ministry should count on that local self-government as well as communicate with it on nature protection as it communicates with park directors or in the future the leadership of an agency and that it should consider how to help local self-government to actively engage in nature protection and that is what you mentioned, it is....
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42547	Another replica, the esteemed Ada Damian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42548	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I must refer to the words of my colleague Vuksic who says this law was made to protect party interests. I have to tell my colleague Vuksic that it may have been like that before. And I'm only going to look back on that part that I'm very familiar with because I see there's a lot of experts here lately, especially about Brijuni National Park. Since I come from that environment, then I know who came before, how to protect the environment and what was done. I absolutely support the concession of especially that touristic part of the facility because this law as it should not be restrictive to local administration. Namely, the Brijuni National Park visits a million and a half hikers annually while the number of tourists or the number of overnight stays on the island itself is very small. Therefore, with the proper concession, with normal protection of the environment and nature absolutely and national parks must be at the service of the local community, but it is not at the service of political parties and its leaders. Thank you, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42549	We will now hear the reply to the replica of the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42550	Dear fellow Members, here's what I'm going to explain is why this law actually protects the interests of political powers, of parties. Well that's why, exactly what you said you said you'd be concessioned, given in the restaurant concession, and then it was explained before it would be given in concession hotels, so it would be given in concession some other service activities. So it's just going to be nature that doesn't get a lot of money out of it, it's going to be out of these service activities. And why is it going to be given? She used to tell her colleague Holly about their bad business. So please be nice! There's a joke that's rude here, which changes when it's bad business, that can't be spoken in Parliament. So change those who do bad business. How will those to whom they will receive profit in the concession and pay us in the beautiful, in the best parts of Croatia. Look, what's best for Brijuni, other national parks, Plitvice Lakes we'll give it to someone to make a profit instead of making a profit. And you say it's not. It's the protection of the incompetence of political powers. They are only powerful that they have your hands and that you will raise your hands there and that Croatia will continue to concentrate so that we will only have a name, anthem, a coat of arms and a flag. So, yes, yes. That's normal. It's not normal for you to have, and you're doing it. And don't throw it out of the bench because it's rude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42551	The third line is the respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Vuksic, we've heard today many times nature is our pride, it should be protected and all that's nice to hear. But I liked what you said about local self-government spreading powers, not diminishing. Because I always stick to the one known that domestic players have the best view of the field, and there they are certainly with their love and have done much to protect that nature and these values. Of course, but to do that there's a lot of difficulty, there's this thing that my colleague Hrg was talking about. So, from that financial nature. But there's another existential nature. If we are witnessing today that our agriculture has been destroyed, that no more fields can be processed, that it threatens to heal, ambrosia of course resulting in health problems. I'm sure it's one question that requires an answer and now hear it this simple and we'll protect it for you, we'll do it for the best. We know best in local self-government what's right and right, just says the full way our people say, "Find us just help." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42553	The replica matches Branko Vukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42554	Is it possible for my colleague Milinkovic, so the fact is that we are a more centralised state, that although we are talking about how we should be decentralisationd, it was then debated that even some ministries should be moved to other cities, in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Slavonski Brod. However, what you were saying is very important to decentralisation, it is very important to allow local self-government to take care of the protection of nature and the environment, but to manage the facilities and to be available to them before local self-government rather than to give them to conces, private entrepreneurs who will extract the most valuable part of the profit. But that's what they're talking about. He says, before he says, the minister will give it up to create new jobs, and more unemployed, more and more. It is known when a privateer, when a concessionary highway will be made, is known exactly how long we have to fire a highway worker and how many more concessionaires will fire and how much toll will rise. It is also known when they will take over hotels, restaurants, how many people will get fired and how much less labour these hotels will operate, it will work much better because now they are being managed by party, similar people, by those who need to be replaced and brought by those who know how to manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42555	We're continuing the club debate. I would like to invite my esteemed colleague Igor Chesek to present the positions of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42556	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with deputies, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have two very important laws ahead of us. In accordance with the existing Nature Protection Act, nature is defined as a total biological and landscape diversity, nature protection is carried out by preserving it itself. The goal is to preserve as wide as possible the diversity of the animal and plant world as possible, and to achieve a more natural balance. Among the great wealth of biodiversity and landscape diversity that the Republic of Croatia has at its disposal are somewhat recognised natural values of national and regional importance, and they are protected by existing law. The structure of national parks and parks of nature well illustrates the richness and diversity of natural values, i.e. four parts by which the Republic of Croatia can be divided according to natural characteristics. It is so recognized as mountain Croatia, Mediterranean, coastal and island Croatia, the Adriatic Sea and Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia we have 8 national parks and 11 nature parks. Plitvice Lakes National Park was included in the World Heritage List, and after the Nature Park Velebit, which has declared the Cross-border Biosphere of Mura – Drava – Dunav on the list of biosphere reserves since 1977 in July 2012. The average percentage of protected areas within the EU countries is 15%, while in the Republic of Croatia the protected areas occupy 8.36%. It is important to highlight the high percentage of coverage of the Republic of Croatia with an ecological network. It spreads to 47% land and 38.5% sea territory of the Republic of Croatia. As Croatia enters the EU, the ecological network becomes NATURA 2000 and will cover a much smaller area of territory, which is not good at all. The vast variety of land, sea and underground habitats resulted in a wealth of species and subclasses with a considerable number of endemics. The number of known species in Croatia is about 38 thousand while the estimated number of species is significantly higher, ranging between 50 and 100 thousand. It's an extremely high number for a country relatively small surface area. In Croatia, there is a significant part of the population of many species at risk at European level. These species are related to large preserved areas of characteristic habitats for them. Despite the high value of nature in Croatia, many of its components are highly endangered. As I come from Slavonia, I will look back on, in my opinion, a major problem relating to the Park of Nature Papuk and its edged forest-covered areas. The Croatian pearl is situated in the mountain forest areas of Papuka, and is declared a nature park in 1999. In 2007, Papuk became part of the European and world association of geoparks and the first geopark in Croatia due to valuable geological heritage. Forest vegetation covers more than 96% of the area. Almost all representatives of the Central European Fauna live there. The papuk provides excellent habitats and numerous bird species and is an internationally important area for birds. Nearly 1,300 plant species, more than a quarter of the entire Croatian flora, is growing on the Papuk. The most endangered and protected species of plants grow in grasslands and other non-wood areas. The Papuk Nature Park is protected because of extremely valuable biological, geological and cultural historical characteristics. As I have stated, more than 96% of the surface is covered in forests that are particularly protected at some sites because of their values. In the northwest part of the park there is Rupnica, the first geological monument of nature in Croatia protected by the appearance of the stupa of volcanic rocks and represents a geological uniqueness in our country. The Papuk Nature Park is a natural habitat for many animal species because of its characteristics. But there is a problem that we who live in that area look at and wonder. The border areas of Papuka are no longer forests but devastated meadows, as for years it has been the cutting of healthy and valuable trees that are not processed in domestic companies but are travelling abroad daily. And our wood industry is unfortunately exhale. Once a large wood-processing combination in Slatina that employed over 3,000 workers no longer exists. It covered all the plants from the processing of raw wood to the finished product and from far-known pieces of furniture. And the little wood-processors are gone. How? There's so much wealth in the forest under our noses, and the wood industry is gone. Several buyers have become quite wealthy, and they are involved in cutting and exporting troops. Therefore, on this occasion I point to the problem and uncontrollably cutting down forests and exports of hulls that harm not only the preservation of flora and fauna in the Park of Nature of Papuk but also the important Croatian economic branch of the wood-processing industry. At the very proposal of the Nature Protection Act, a large number of amendments were submitted. It is expressed concern that the Chamber of Architects and the Faculty of Agriculture for the Protection of Areas and we at the HDSSB Club consider this final proposal of the Nature Protection Act to be half-product and should not have come to another reading. As far as the Environmental Protection Act is concerned, we feel that the articles of the proposed law are 10, 11 and 12 which speak about the principles of precautionaryness, principles of preserving the value of natural goods, biodiversity and landscape, and the principles of replacing excellent articles, and they are a good platform of environmental protection and should be a model of life for all of us. I would also like to commend Article 95 of the proposed Environmental Protection Act, which speaks of the environmental permit to be issued by installations, to protect the environment as effectively as possible. But is reality in accordance with this law? It certainly isn't because let's look around us, there are countless wild waste dumps. What have we done about air pollution in Slavonski Brod? What about building regional and county dumps? Such questions are not regulated by this law, and they certainly should. And that's why we at the HDSSB club are not gonna back these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42557	Replica, Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42558	Dear colleague of the Czechs, it's not just the problem you were talking about. Namely, here is listening to the debate on behalf of the SDP club of the former environment minister and reading its amendments obviously and listening to what she said yesterday, we obviously have a disproportionate relationship between what the current minister is proposing, the current government with its own club and its own representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42559	A colleague, Vinkovic, to whom do you replicate? A colleague of Holly's? You weren't in the hall when my colleague Holly spoke, so now you're building on it in a replica like this. Stick to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42560	I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42561	Don't stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42562	I am, of course, very much holding on to the Rules of Procedure, and I demand that of you, since there is no correcting the incorrect allegations, so I believed that here you would be in the name of the club and potentiating that big problem that is obviously present here. On the one hand, we have the opinion of one club defending this law, and on the other hand we have a representative who writes one large majority of amendments that do not comply with the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42563	Igor Češek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42564	That fellow Vinkovic, we will not discuss democracy within the ranks of the SDP, but the fact is that there is a disproportionate relationship between the minister and the profession, so here is the obvious disproportionate between the minister and the members of his club of MPs. As we have seen countless times, this is not the only example. It is an example in many ministries that when the ministry proposes a law or the government does not respect the word profession. Such behavior shows that they themselves are sufficient and that they don't care about the profession and that they don't care what happens tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42565	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Petar Baranovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary with assistants, ladies and gentlemen. Right away, at first I say the HNS Club will support these bill proposals. to speak of their quality, I personally have confidence in the evaluations given by the former minister who knows this matter very well, colleague Holly, and reading the legal proposals themselves shows that everything about environmental protection and nature protection is quite detailed. The reason for the passing of these laws by emergency procedure is well known to all of us, although given the importance of this topic, it would be where and where better if we had been in a position to adopt these laws more gradually because they treat highly sensitive matter and all the laws that have come into force so far have shown shortcomings in application and have sought novels over time. But the situation is what it is. There is a clear need for these laws to be in line with the part of the EU acquis that treats this matter in the context of Croatia's EU accession, but they are also adopted because of certain shortcomings observed in the application of current laws as well as compliance with some of the Croatian laws with which provisions should be harmonised, for example, with the General Administrative Procedure Act. What I would like to open up as a topic in the commentary of this law is the area from which I come from is normally to raise the issue of environmental protection and nature protection towards the Adriatic ecosystem. And I have to say that no matter what is detailed in these laws, there is a clear need for certain things to be better defined. He warned of this in his memos to Croatian and Adriatic island council, Association of Civil Society, Association of Bodula and islanders who are trying to protect what is truly most valuable on the coast of Croatia, and these are Adriatic islands, protection of the ecological system, environment and nature on the Adriatic. Has this law paid enough attention to that part? I must admit that I am not personally satisfied because even the contents of some articles, such as Article 153 of the Nature Protection Act, says "the collection, cutting, cutting, excavation, collection, destruction of individuals of strictly protected mushrooms, lichens and algae from nature in their natural surroundings are prohibited." However, there is no mention of protected shell species, protected fish species, of coral. A large part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is the Adriatic Sea, a very sensitive ecosystem of the Adriatic and ecosystem, and once we have to look into the truth in the eyes. As much as public debate is being held sometimes for long and years on the justification and acceptability of some land-based projects, so lightly due to economic interest, because of the achievement of revenues when it comes to the Adriatic ecosystem, we close our eyes. There is little known and talk about the effects of tourism, tourist activity on the Adriatic ecosystem, few people know that the noise in the sea is one of the most devastating forms of pollution. Many people do not know how radically life has changed in the sea in the last 20 years on the Adriatic, and as far as it is not known, it is proportionate and neglected in legal proposals, laws and sublaws of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It's definitely the thing that does the future generations that come behind us we have to change. I personally hope that this debate will encourage Mr. Minister and his associates to pay more attention to this problem, to create sublegal acts of which some of us in Dalmatia need to bring as quickly as possible, to be open to communication and cooperation with people who in their scientific professional life are committed to protecting the environment and studying the marine ecosystem, and also to be open to civil society associations, local self-government units because what has been happening on the Adriatic for decades in many situations can be called a total devastation. Unfortunately, the practice has also shown that in certain categories of devastion occurs more intensively precisely in those areas that are under a special protection regime and even in national parks because fundamental laws are not applied but are left to the administration of the national park to create life and behavior within that space. In addition, what we should not allow ourselves in the future is an unequal approach when it comes to the realisation of economic projects, to turn our heads on one side, and to be greater Catholics than the Pope. Environmental protection and nature protection is absolutely imperative, which in the Republic of Croatia, according to the opinion of us from the HNS, should be given due attention. Comprehensiveness, the principle of coverage of these laws is what is embedded in them we welcome but we expect that very precisely, carefully, elaborate all variations and implement all the needs of real protection of the environment and nature in sublegal acts. In any case, the HNS will support these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42567	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my dear colleague Baranovic, I certainly agree with you that Jadran is one of I would say perhaps the most endangered eco-systems but also the threat of the eco-system is present in the continental part of Croatia. But here I'm going to ask you the same question, given that many citizens who care primarily about environmental protection at this point are still not clear as to what with those two major economic projects that we have all the time, I would say the conflicts inside, within the corny coalition itself, it's OMBLA, it's about Plomin, and in the end it's about what you mentioned that we can't really be more Catholic than the Pope, for example. Using construction material, i.e. gravel, sand from river streams where we witnessed that the Republic of Croatia imported enormous quantities of construction material from e.g. neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring Serbia, with the exception of guarding these river streams. It's just that we didn't exploit it, we exploited our neighbors on the other side of the riverbed, and we paid a lot. Here's what I'm interested in is that this law, within the political option itself, is controversial, since there are a number of amendments that do not comply with the law written like this. So here I am also interested in this unreserved support of the CNS of this Law, that is, these two laws. And I consider all of us MPs The minister should give an answer. [[/Intruder: Time. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42569	Answer Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42570	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Vinkovic. I'm going to start from gravel and exploitation from water streams, which is the practice so far to import from other countries. This is one example where we try to be more Catholic than the Pope, so when some of the things and provisions that should be incorporated in any case and should be a precautionary measure, we lead to absurdity. And then we put ourselves in a situation where, without any control or control or lack of control, gravel is exploited, bridged across Sava, Drava and transported to Croatia. In this context, and the relationship generally towards entrepreneurship projects, we in HNS advocate that world standards and standards in environmental protection apply in the Republic of Croatia, especially European, because we become part of the European family. But we are not for many projects that have their own justification and the need in the Republic of Croatia to be blocked and stopped under environmental protection. This is how we end the country's economic and social recovery. It is a well-known thing that rich and developed societies are much faster and much easier to adopt standards of environmental protection than those needed and poor. About the condition, about the state of the projects you've listed, I'd probably be able to tell you every number, kuna and lip from that project that I'm running, but I don't run them, so I don't have information and I don't want to deal with the conjecture in this serious house, because he's serious to me. And as far as environmental protection is concerned, we believe that the principles needed are embedded in these legislative proposals, and I stressed that I expect... Sublegal acts are processed in detail and the principle content of these laws in HNS is considered acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42571	Thank you, too. We've finished discussing the clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate, and the first one was reported to her by Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to sort of adjust my individual debate to the current course of the debate, so I'm going to start with that World Bank loan mentioned by the minister. Why did I say get 20 million? Because as part of the arrangement with the World Bank, the Republic of Croatia nominated projects. I'm proud that we were able to make it 20 million dollars to protect nature. $20 million of these are currently being spent on those projects that started years ago and now your Ministry of Ministers is doing. So it was obtained at the most favourable credit rates and it was obtained because behind it it cared about the ministry where you say nature was the last hole in the player. At the time, two administrations were responsible for caring for natural heritage. One was the inspection board, and one was the classic nature protection administration. But when you say nothing happened, I'll be free to read it to you. And you're welcome to check it out. Otherwise, this loan with the World Bank was signed in 2011, following the negotiation process and the pressure procedure for this $20m to be devoted to natural heritage. And that's what we're proud of both me and our colleagues who worked on it. Thank God we've always been in charge of such valuable things. And what's up, what's up... The administrative and visitor center in Kopačko rit, administrative and visitor centre on Papuk, on Lonjsko polje, Medvednica, in Gospić for Nature Park Velebit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Administrative visitors Center for Northern Velebit, Administrative and Visitor Center in Mali Paklenica, Učka and Lastovo are completely new buildings. A brand-new view of the Vran Lake, I'm just listing to you the last three, four years that have happened. And as for Park, the Park of Nature Žumberak, Mr. Minister, who is well known to you that I am not going too far to the Archaeological Park Budinjak and the Control Point of Nature Park Žumberak. That's what happened. Telemetric systems introduced into all parks, national parks and nature parks, from Brijuni to Mljet, via Biokova and Paklenica related to fire protection. As far as the inspection is concerned, it is specially designed, it has been made of training and equipment from means through twing projects from European funds in the amount of almost one, in one million. The $5 million gift was made up of management plans for northern Velebit, Velebit, Risnjak, Plitvice and Paklenica. From a $5 million gift card. So a gift was also received from $5m managed by the World Bank and withdrawn from the UN fund, and related to karst ecosystems. As for these $5 million we mentioned, that is, the first 500 grand tranche you said to finance the section, in order to pull these 4.5 million you know it well by the 9th month you must..., don't compromise that deadline and my appeal to you went exactly that way because I believe that everyone would be happy to withdraw those funds. But I've only taxed you with this, and you may have a chance to correct me if you think that's necessary. As far as inventory is concerned, no state in Europe has... 100%. Show me which one it is. This would mean that all natural and animal species from A to Z have been inventoryd and that no one else in the area has a job to do anymore. There is no such state in Europe. It doesn't exist. Show me inventory data for the sea, I say they're below 30%. Let the public see it. And that's a basic job, that's a basic job to be built on afterwards. And that's where I agree, no matter how much the agency disagrees with my colleague Holly, I agree with you on what you said about the strategy. I think it's the right way and that's how it should go on. But when we talk about someone inventorying everything 100% of it, it means it's all written down, we don't have anything to do anymore, we know everything. Mr. Minister tells you, no European state has done it, and Croatia is somewhere between 30% and 40%, and there is a particularly difficult part about the sea, and there is a very big professional job waiting for us. So I've listed what's been done to you and how much all the funds have been withdrawn. As far as the law is concerned, I do not understand a single professional motive for why the law is going now and why it is not going to a new reading with a previous public debate. I don't understand what you're going to do with the law that you're going to achieve about the protection of your heritage. The only clear motive for the concession is that. In which segments this will improve the protection of natural heritage if this law is not implemented through public debate and goes with one reading. Well, I guess it makes more sense for him to still be fixed that way, and you know you're gonna have to change him yourself again. I know it's a second reading, but it bothers you to pull it again and send it to an extra reading. I understand only the moment of concession, as far as concessions are concerned. I am not a priori opponent of this, but I am deeply interested when someone takes a catering facility on Brijuni or, say, Plitvice Lakes or, say, the Krka National Park in a 50-year concession, how we're going to set ourselves up towards it, how we're going to control it, and how we're going to eventually take away its concession if it doesn't stick to the given principles. One more thing I'd like to say, neglecting the local community and the county level is devastating for nature's protection, devastating. In particular, I can give you an example here, because nature protection, for example, in Nature Park Lonjsko polje added to the co-existence of people and the nature of this region. Look... with those wooden beach houses, there's the center... and the park's management was put into that cultural heritage so that it would be restored because it came from that nature. For all of this, it would be really good to have a strategy and a better law in the public debate. I don't understand what that motive is except for this concession to go like this. We have said our opinions about the agency, we believe that it is much better to follow these conclusions which the international expert group, internationally, I stress international, adopted and recommended, and in this way, if it is read and their recommendations read, you will see that they eventually lead to something in some perspective that we may call an agency someday. Because they're planning on what's-his-name. certain funds to be collected from, from which nature parks and national parks would be financed together, which do not have a large inflow of funds, because they plan to improve the system, because they plan better control in the administrative councils and everything else that has been declared to be the objectives that they wanted to achieve with this bill. I think that would be much smarter, I don't think this should be a rush and that it really has to be brought... All of this and a lot of these topics that we're discussing today could be addressed through an adequate public debate and all of this would be crystallized through an adequate public debate. This is the kind of question that concerns all of us and this generation and future generations leave behind, I would say to the mercy and mercy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who will decide on the already mentioned dominant public interest, to decide behind closed doors, and that is very dangerous. Not for us, by nature, for what comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42573	I thank my colleague Mesic. You will now hear two replicas of your exposure. First Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42574	Dear counterpart Mesic, not only is it a devastating neglect of local and regional self-government but it is just scandalous, but you should not be surprised because all this is happening in this year and a half with local and regional self-government, out of the possibility of even funding, the existence of local and regional self-government. No one here in this House should be surprised because we live in a completely centralized state. And what anyone wants to know is that local self-government, some local mayor or sheriff like to call it or mayor, he's probably a federal marshal. Whether or not she can even have jurisdiction in protecting nature conservation. On the other hand, it absolutely needs to be cleared up. There's a minister who needs to give an answer. I don't think that we can get these answers as advocates through the media by watching Dnevnik one, second or third, or watching all the time 4 program of this far-sighted Croatian, spirit cathedral as Vrdoljak called it, but simply here to make it clear and loud about what's going on with the amendments of MP Mirela Holy, who goes on as a former minister, gives amendments as a representative, and something else speaks on behalf of the SDP club. And that is fundamental to what the minister here should clearly and loudly say in front of all MPs whether these amendments are being rejected or adopted. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42575	Second replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42576	Dear colleague Mesic, you asked, you asked one question from which motive the law is now being passed, right now, which is why the law is being passed. And then you said one argument, the finding that you weren't a priori against concessions. I'm asking you from what motive to give concessions, for example, concessions of restaurant in Brijuni, say hotels in Plitvices from which motive to give. Profit motive, motive for environmental protection. What's the motive? Which would get, say, local self-government to give something in a concession. As we deal with these concessions, how we will treat employment. Because we know everything we've put in the concession that after that, there's been a wave of layoffs. Well, here, as a contribution to the debate if you can explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42577	We're continuing an individual debate. Here's the replica that matches the esteemed Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42578	Thank you. No, I wanted to say that I don't see any professional reason, that's what I was going to say that I'm reading that exactly the reason for the extension of the term of the concession. When I was talking about concessions, I wasn't a prior, I was thinking about all the concessions where they could be. I didn't refer to this particular case. As far as Plitvice Lakes are concerned, I know exactly what you mean by that. And that's why I think maybe a little bit when you say that you support the Agency's introduction, I think it'll lead you to these consequences that you're talking about rather than having a broken administration of the local community and local self-government. You'll sooner face this problem that you yourself state as a great danger in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42579	So we continue with an individual discussion. Dear colleague Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42580	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning, I want to explain some things, given the impression that Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, the representative Zoran Vinkovic, who later joined this debate, did not realize that we are discussing two laws today. One law is the Nature Protection Act and the other is the Environmental Protection Act. And I was speaking on behalf of the club about the Environmental Protection Act, not the Nature Protection Act. I will now, in my individual debate, talk about the Nature Protection Act. And given the fact that I've seen some portals, meanwhile, show up information that I agree with HDZ that concessions are bad. I would like to say that this is not true and that I believe that concessions and this call for international tenders for certain catering and hotel facilities in Plitvice Lakes National Park and Brijuni National Park can be significantly improved now in parks from a sustainable management position with these facilities because the current situation is linked to the management of these capacities unsustainable. And we have an obligation to implement a sustainable development policy in national parks and parks of nature, if nowhere else, at least there. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Nature Protection Act I would like to read and remind you of what was said in 2008 during the debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act in this same space on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP and I am now quoting. In the SDP club, we believe that the great lack of this legislative proposal is what the promoter has failed to do, change, and more creative and rationally edit. This primarily refers to the reform of the current system of management of protected areas of nature mainly national parks and parks of nature if it is inefficient, wasteful and old-fashioned. In the SDP, we believe that Croatia needs a small but effective administration, as well as in the area of management of protected areas of nature. We believe that at a time when the economic crisis and recession rocked our society, the promoter had to take advantage of the opportunity to amend the Nature Protection Act in order to regulate this area and age a more efficient and rational administration. This would, in addition to the introduction of a single system of management of protected areas, mean, of course, the overall reform of the state administration for long-term protection and conservation of natural values. I said those words on behalf of the SDP club in the 2008 assembly. And I didn't suck those words out of my finger, but that attitude was part of the policy of environmental protection and nature with which the SDP went to the elections in 2007, and this political stance came after numerous discussions within the party. This story of the necessary reform of the security management system does not stop. This political stance is repeated multiple times in the previous term when the SDP was in opposition and through the SDP Council has been preparing for the takeover of power in Croatia. So it is still possible to read on SDP's website today that the SDP Environment Protection Council held a press conference in Park Maksimir on 24 May 2009 on the topic "Institutional Framework for Nature Protection in the Republic of Croatia today and tomorrow" at which Parliament's representative Mirela Holly and then the director of the Public Institute "Maximir" today, Assistant Minister Nenad Stryza, warned of the shortcomings of the current nature protection system in the Republic of Croatia, and presented the SDP's concept of this system. On this occasion, it says on the SDP website, quotes: "After protecting nature, the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture of Finance has been reduced to an unacceptable measure, and the EU NATURA 2000 programme, which is obliged to implement Croatia on the day of its entry into the EU, is practically inconclusive and de facto fictitious and the establishment of the Central Parks Agency, would achieve a unique, more efficient and cost-effective management and a uniform development of protected areas of national parks and nature parks," the end of the quote. Similarly, in the public debate on Plan 21, where one citizen is responsible, I quote: "In terms of nature protection institutions, we plan to systematise the tasks and system of progress in the services of national parks and parks of nature through the Regulation on the way in which public institutions operate and to set up a National Park Agency whose key tasks would be to ensure the conditions of operation according to the principle of one mission, one vision, rationalisation and transformation of the existing park system, etc.", the end of the quote. After discussing this proposal for a law in the first reading, many asked me why I am so harassing and drinking through this damn National Park Agency and that there must be far more important issues than this. It seemed to them insane in a political sense. It is without a doubt that for the citizens and citizens of Croatia it is more important that after a year and a half of this government's mandate we still do not have in the procedure of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, which should have largely simplified the process of realising renewable sources and launched a large number of non-megalomanic but for the economic recovery of extremely significant renewable energy projects, which I recall was once again one of the foundations of the Economic Recovery Programme in Plan 21. People who respected me as they said the dramaticization of the National Park Agency differed however in several very important things from me. For the first time, environmental and nature protection is viewed as marginal political issues without great importance for the public, which are unnecessary for political tightening of relations. Secondly, unlike me, they believe that these issues are not ideological and do not question the party's political credibility. And thirdly, they are not as concerned as I am about whether Croatia will be able to meet all the obligations and objectives of many directives in the field of nature protection, or because of that, in a year or two or three, we will be able to pay for the penalty. When I say paying for a penalty, I mean not only those whose political irresponsibility has led to such a situation, and we know who it is, but all of Croatia's citizens because they will all pay for it. And this is exactly the central political issue of this law as well as any other law because we all know that we can have the best policy and the best possible laws, but that without a capable, efficient and fair state administration and a concrete financial instrument, any and the best policy or law remains a dead letter on paper. The issue of state administration reform is of course not possible to resolve by this law, a question that must arise from the political decision and commitment of the Government and the correction of laws from other areas, but a financial instrument can be addressed by this law. And the financial instrument should, as planned in SDP policies, be the National Park Agency. Otherwise, I'm afraid this law, like many other laws, will remain just a dead letter on paper. I would like to remind you that the 2008 Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the 2008 Action Plan for the Protection of Biological and Regional Variities has shown that the National Strategy and the Action Plan are fundamental documents for the implementation of the nature policy that are de facto not implemented because only 10% of the measures in the strategy and plan have been implemented because of the lack of a strong financial instrument for the implementation of nature protection policy. With regard to the fact that Croatia's degree in the EU in front of Croatia, there are very ambitious objectives that we need to meet, in terms of inventory of the database and so on, and that this will not be possible without a strong financial instrument such as the National Park Agency, Croatia will probably soon pay for the non-compliance of the EU directive in the event of the retention of the existing system. For this reason, I have submitted 14 amendments to this proposal, half of which concern strengthening the component of protection of landscape diversity in a law that is extremely important in this portfolio, and which is ultimately referred to by the name of the strategy mentioned above. And the other half of the amendment applies to the National Park Agency. I hope that the government will accept these amendments and thus demonstrate its political credibility and seriousness towards the realisation of European commitments. I hope that, too, the reason why the government referred to the remarks made during the first reading referred to all the debates except for mine, which, without false modesty, seems to have caused the most public attention. They complained to me about why I didn't refer to the rest of the law in my first reading. I do not consider the rest of the law controversial because it is about taking over the EU acquis from this area. And whether the formulation is going to be like this or not is irrelevant because the procedures related to NATURA in 2000 have to be taken over and we have to implement it whether we like it or not. The focus of the problem is not in NATURA 2000 and the procedures but on which financial instrument we will implement these obligations. And the law is unacceptable to me in that most important part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42581	Now we'll hear the replicas. First, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42582	Here's an esteemed colleague, Agent Vinkovic, here if you don't believe him, he studied both laws carefully, and against it, he's going through an emergency procedure. This debate is united, so I took advantage of the opportunity to replicate above all against both laws. But here's your speech has shown that I have just touched in this replica the core of the problem and that not to me in the Parliament but to Croatian citizens, and I must say that I have carefully studied Plan 21 and after this year and a half of all of what is written in Plan 21 is not seen at all and is not implemented in Croatia at all, definitely, by reducing VAT, taxes and everything else, increasing economic activity, increasing jobs, etc. But let's not go into it right now. In my opinion and in my view, I was right that you submitted the amendments as an advocate and as a former minister, and I agree with you that your debate and your opinion echoed in public. And now simply as a representative, I ask not of you an explanation but of the minister whether what is written in Plan 21, on the basis of which the Kukuriku coalition received votes, got most of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, it allowed the Croatian government to lead this country. Here is 1.7. We will enter the EU, etc., etc. Obviously, that's not what we're going through. And I am not in conflict with the minister but apparently the entire SDP with its own minister and its own ministry and its own government. And as for the SDP decision-making on that second chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42583	The replica matches the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42584	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, you are wrong not to implement Plan 21 because Plan 21 is being implemented in some extremely important ideological and not so ideological things. So I'm going to remind you of a few things that were extremely present in Plan 21 that were carried out and implemented during last year. First of all, the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, you know how many obstacles were made to the conservative HDZ law on this matter, was one of the first, I would say, measures to implement Plan 21 of the new government. The second thing, it was published by the Defense Registry. You know what the dispute was about that question, then the register of voters is also. The process of introducing order into the voter's lists. Then Fiscalisation as a process of introducing order into state finances as well as publication of taxpayers. That's not what the HDZ government ever did. Then the Department of Administration a whole series of very high-quality laws. Law on the right to access information, a very important law for the democratisation of society and control of public authorities, then in the preparation of the Life Partnership Act, a very important promise also from Plan 21. The State Queens Act, the Personal Name Act, is therefore not true that Plan 21 is not being implemented. There's room for improvement, but you're wrong and you can't claim that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42585	Second replica and respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42586	Dear colleagues, Holly, I agree with most of your debate. I'm sorry that you're not sitting there on the opposite side because it's absolutely certain that we'll pass the law unanimously and because we support you in these parts that you don't support in the law itself. But after the medically assisted fertilization was to be passed, which we supported, I personally supported that law, a supported economy. You didn't do anything about it. You're just talking about some kind of conditional upgrade, they don't have a foundation. Second thing, you were talking about concessions here I don't agree with you. Concessions are bad. You said you were introducing concessions for sustainable management. So tell me, who's gonna run hotels, restaurants on Plitvices and Brijuni? Who manages the largest telecommunications companies in Croatia? Who manages banks in Croatia whose owners are foreigners? All Croatian managers, all those who had failed, disastrously failed before, have now become suddenly successful. This is an excuse for someone to sell, rent and sell for 50 years again. It's that neoliberal capitalism that you support, although you're trying to be on the outside, meaning under the impression of a social democratic government. When you support concessions like this, and without any reason then you support what you should essentially fight against what you should fight. International competitions are also Mrs Holly's international neoliberal duck. We need to give everything, we need to be disembarked everywhere where we can get some profits on our own. In that part, I don't support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42587	The replica matches the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42588	Dear colleague, I think we still need to learn a lot about the democratisation of society in general about the government's obligation and the like. Namely, when a political option comes to the polls with a particular political programme and under that political programme it is the government's obligation to implement the political programme on the basis of which it won the elections because it is some kind of contract between the government and the people. And in this sense, it is absolutely no matter who is in the position of the minister or minister because the government has a certain political platform to implement because it has gained the political confidence of citizens on this basis. And now something small about concessions, so concessions are not in themselves as instruments either positive or negative. People can make them either a negative instrument if they have any last thoughts or a positive instrument can be made of them. At present, Brijuni National Park and Plitvice Lakes National Park do not have the money to manage them in a sustainable way in terms of both renewable energy sources and others means improvements within the system itself that determines how to manage certain hotel or catering facilities. And therefore, if the Government will be wise and call out a tender that will precisely define which concessionaires' obligations in terms of the management of these facilities and the renovation of these facilities can only get positive effects for what is the core activity of that which means sustainable management of these premises.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42589	The third line is the esteemed colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Holly, I would not say that the Government, with this proposal and even that proposal in the first reading, is not on the trail of your request to establish a unique, or to set up a national park agency. However, the government goes one step further, it leaves the bill with the possibility of forming two or three national park agencies. One would, for example, be park agencies for national parks, another might be for nature parks, etc., etc. I'll do it later in an individual debate, and I've already said it. I disagree first with the fact that it is necessary to establish a national park agency but I disagree even less with the fact that the government is doing so outside the Parliament. Why did the Minister, or Government, or the Ministry of this Law, not say whether he supported a single parking agency, that is, what you are looking for or will form two or will retain the existing system of management of protected areas of nature. That's what I think that we as Parliamentarians, regardless of what side we come from, should expect. And I expect the government to make it clear in the law what it will do and not tell us that it is waiting for the results of some study, so when that study says it will make one of these three variants that I mentioned earlier. Otherwise, by setting up one national agency for the management of certain tasks at national level in any segment, it does not mean that it must contribute well. We set up the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre, with which we announced numerous investments in raising the energy efficiency of public buildings in Croatia, the epilogue I don't know, we never received a report on the work of this centre, etc., etc. I agree with you where the Agency for Renewable Energy Sources is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So, the issue of the establishment of a special story that this Parliament should take care of. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42591	The fourth line is Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42592	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Holly, I will speak here a little more personally than in the views of my party's club because I have followed your work as ministers in the Croatian government, but also as advocates in that last session of the Parliament where in one quality debates you have shown first of all your expertise and determination and credibility in politics which is a little bit in this time we live in. I agree with your proposals and discussion when you were talking about the need to have a platform of responsibility for every policy and government. What you have said in pre-election campaigns, in your own kind, is a contract between a future government and citizens, it needs to be fully supported and implemented because it then deviates from that promise and that credibility that citizens have voted for a particular political option to give their trust. I think that this proposal for a law without your amendments is a derogation from the policy of plan 21 because I personally advocate taking responsibility for the citizens in that section, which is the government's obligation to win the elections to keep what it has promised and to fulfill. I don't think there's much going on in plan 21, but I don't think I'd like to go off the rails with you, but in this part of this bill, it's really going away from what you're saying as a minister. And we are, and I am personally as a representative not only of the declaration, but really as a politician supported your work in the government and what rare politicians in the Parliament have, regardless of what club they sat in, it is political credibility, determination and courage sometimes to carry out what not in terms of some support to the party to which we belong but to our citizens, to those who have given us the confidence to be both representatives in the Croatian Parliament and to carry out what citizens expect of us. In that sense you had and you have always supported me say personally as an agent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42593	The replica matches the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42594	Dear colleague, here it is, I thank you for this comment, I think I'm surprised that we don't belong to the same political option. However, I would like to say one thing. The political programme with which a political option has won elections is a commitment in terms of implementation. Of course, some circumstances may change and a correction of a specific programme may be made on the basis that the political option has won the elections because the circumstances have changed or some analysis has shown something different. But then it must be fully clear and transparently reasoned. I'm a reasonable person and I can accept that he's deviating himself from certain parts of the program. If this is not good or similar, but they cannot accept deviations from certain parts of the program that are not duly explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42595	The right to present an individual debate is now being given to counterpart Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42596	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. During the morning we discuss two laws, one which is roof and the other which is extremely important when it comes to environmental protection, i.e. nature protection in the Republic of Croatia. I think that in relation to the Nature Protection Act, the Government should have clearly responded to a number of remarks that the Nature Protection Act that we discussed in the first reading was practically different from the Proposal for a Nature Protection Act that was under public debate. And that was an important reason for the government to re-implement the public hearing procedure with the interested public... The Nature Protection Act, as well as the debate during the morning in the section relating to the Nature Protection Act. This is one principled remark, and the other is that the Environmental Protection Act is as a roof law since it was prepared a year and several days ago, that in relation to this law it has experienced very small changes, that it should then at least go into two readings. That's what I've been saying and I'm holding it to make it better and contribute to the quality of both laws. I would also refer to everything I said during the first reading of the Nature Protection Act, and as regards the establishment of a single national park agency. We at the HDZ Club have made it clear that we are against the establishment of a national park agency, and I must say that you are Mr. Minister and you because it is written on the pages of your ministry, which you yourself have confirmed. When asked about the decision against the introduction of a national park agency, the minister explained that the introduction of the agency is not a guarantee that the system of management of protected areas will work and added that he believes that much faster and better results will get the improvement of the existing system by solving problems identified through administrative supervision and that we are fully in agreement with Mr Minister. And I don't see why you didn't put this attitude in public, or the government in the text of this law, and clearly set out on this important issue of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia. It's not an unimportant question, but it's a crucial question of how we're going to manage that space. And then if your position is that which you have stated and which is on your site, i.e. on the Ministry's website and which we agree with in the HDZ club, then that is how it should have been written in the law, and it is not the possibility that when the Government decides how it decides beyond this Parliament it can determine how and how it will manage protected areas of nature in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that one attempt to get out of this debate that's at stake would say occupations when it comes to the Nature Protection Act, to avoid in a certain way, and not to answer the fundamental question that is raised through the adoption of this law. The second thing, we hear these days that the Ministry of Economy is going to intend and that maybe even tomorrow, I'm not sure, at the government's session again, and I don't know to what extent the amended Strategic Investment Act is going to be amended. The Minister of Economy says that the Government has reternised in a certain way, and given the numerous remarks made by the European Commission and the European Parliament on this law, that it has retarded it in such a way as to implement only investments that are in line with spatial planning plans, therefore with spatial order documents, but that it will significantly reduce the procedure for obtaining building permits and works for individual strategic projects worth more than 20m euros. Now, given that these two laws, both the Environmental Protection Act and the Nature Protection Act, are potentially dangerous if we can say that about the environment, also provides for in the part relating to nature protection and in the part relating to environmental protection, the procedures that are in agreement with your initial exposure, in one part of the reduced but still very long, very long and still very long if we look at them in the context of what the Ministry of Economy plans to issue a building permit within 15 days or 20 days which would be very good if possible. I am interested in what the Ministry of Environment and Nature's position is on these laws and statements we hear from the Ministry of Economy and allegedly the government has already decided to go towards the Croatian Assembly with the Strategic Investments Act. It is then right to ask whether this law will be only for those who invest, for example, 5, 7, 10 million kunas and will be subject to environmental impact assessment procedures, environmental impact studies, environmental acceptance assessments, etc., and for others who will invest slightly more than 20 million euros or for those for whom the Government estimates that they are strategic projects, these laws will not be implemented. And I believe that it is not so, although you did not convince me and you did not convince us in the Croatian Parliament because here is what we are discussing today, the procedure that we provide for this law did not apply as a Government to the Strategy of Spatial Arrangement, and it does not seem to me then to be able to pass the Law on carbons from that strategy. So, on the one hand, we appear declaratively in this House with large environmental protection and nature protection plans, and on the other hand, here's the Government through certain projects that I just mentioned, and in the section relating to the amendment of the Strategy for Spatial Arrangement and in the section relating to the Law on carbons, and this announced Law on Strategic Investments, which should be adopted tomorrow or the longest until the meeting of the Government, it seems to me that these laws do not mean much to us, that then the Government is saying one thing when it comes to its citizens, and the other when it comes to certain stakeholders who are investing in projects that the government is obviously looking favourably. And one more thing, given that on behalf of the HDZ Club, we're going to propose some amendments I'd only single out on that trail one amendment that I'm going to write, which I've singled out in the debate after the first reading. Namely, I did not agree with a solution allowing fishing as an activity in the national park, and in a special reserve that is not such a level of nature protection that activity has been disabled. You have now changed on the basis of the debate of our parliamentary representatives, and I believe also on the basis of the observations of the units of local self-government in the area of Maloston Bay and the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva, you have changed this article where you have now abolished both in the national park and in the nature reserve the possibility of fishing, but you have prescribed yourself the possibility to define the activities that could be carried out in these areas and in those areas. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to accept this amendment, which I will submit to the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community on behalf of the people of Peljesac and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. There is no reason to make it possible to grow mariculture, fish and shell in a special reserve of the Bay of Maloston, and on the other hand to prevent the activity which also enables this same activity, thus growing mariculture, as we would allow the capture of predators, predator fish that destroy that same mariculture in the Bay of Maloston. This is prescribed, and you, with your regulation, then identify fishing gears, determine procedures, determine the time of harvesting, etc. etc. But originally because of thousands of people living in that area, their lives depend largely on fishing in that area. Let's not stop it, but let's make it happen. I think that, in that sense, the fisherman made his remarks both in the amendment and in the first reading, and later on, they showed a team more clearly than even Minister Jakovina had promised to come along with you to this space and that we would solve this problem to the satisfaction of the people living in the Bay of Maloston. So, all in all, we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support the adoption of the Nature Protection Act for the reasons that we have said in the introduction, and as far as the Environmental Protection Act is concerned, I believe that this law should have been put into regular procedure and we will respond to all the dilemmas that have been put in place, which you heard this morning and on the board, and during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42597	This presentation is presented by representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42598	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to start my colleague Bacic out of these last words. It's not just about fishing. There's also a question of money. It is also one of the important branches of the economic branches of tourist offers, etc. And I believe that even in nature parks, national parks with certain rules and compliance with the Hunting Law should, in any case, make that part possible. But I'll go back to the whole package of these laws. The Germans would say wir haben eine grosse problem, and someone here would say in English what with that accent people must trust us. And obviously we have a big problem, a problem and what's being published on the Ministry's website, what's written in the grand plan 21. Here's what we've heard in terms of enormous proportions, I'd say even space ratios that plan 21 is carrying out, bringing these great results. So here's all of Croatia's citizens, as one politician said for five, ten years, they don't even know that they live better but they live better. I mean, they're stories, first of all, for little kids. We still have a problem with the economy, with the number of unemployed. We even have strategic investments. And I ask again what about Omble, what about Plomin, what about all the strategic investments. What about me I would say to these forests of those cranes in Croatia, so when I wake up I can't recognize Croatia how much activity this activity is according to Plan 21 made as the economy develops, as the number of unemployed decreases, and the standard of all citizens increases.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42599	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42600	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vinkovic, it seems to me that you too are falling into one trap when you claim that this law is bad because it is not in line with Plan 21. He's not bad because he's not in line with Plan 21 because Plan 21 is bad. Because if it were good, the situation in Croatia would not be as it is, but it is bad because it has not answered the fundamental questions of nature protection. That's what we're always saying. He did not respond in the way and how we will manage protected areas of nature, he did not make it very clear what with those areas of the ecological network after we declared NATURA 2000. What about these areas of nature, how and how we will safeguard them, will they be covered by all those provisions of the laws that would apply to those spaces being left in the framework of NATURA 2000. So these are the basic reasons why this plan is bad, not that it's bad because it's not in line with Plan 21. Because I said that Plan 21 is better would probably be a better situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42601	The last in a series for individual debate is distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42602	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's something to say about the Nature Protection Act. I didn't even think about it, but recently a dozen days ago, fifteen days ago, when the minister announced a concession of some activities within national parks, I think there's something to be said about that, because we're talking about the Nature Protection Act. We've been hearing all morning that we've been successful, but that the law so far has not been good. She's not going with each other. If we were successful and protected the most valuable parts of nature then probably not only this existing, but all those who preceded him were probably good. We have to agree on this because I say by looking at this law that enables investment, new investment in national parks gives me the impression that it is actually a hidden law on strategic investment in protected areas of the Republic of Croatia. I know that while we're talking about the Nature Protection Act in the status of strict reservations, nothing happens positively, nothing, there's no movement. However, is the Nature Protection Act a place where we should allow investors to play in the most beautiful parts of ours? We in Croatia have two strict reserves, they have remained intact by this law, they can neither be granted concessions nor built. We have eight national parks on which the Parliament makes a decision on the declaration, it also makes a spatial plan, but the minister under this law can single out a certain activity of the national park and give it in concession. It's completely illogical, meaning away from the eyes of the public, the people, the MPs. When were the national parks declared? Brijuni '83, Kornati '80, Krka '85, Plitvice Lakes '49, Paklenica '49, Mljet 1960, Risnjak '53, northern Velebit 1999. And now the question arises whether in this protection or the protection of nature in those 70 years, 80 years, 20 years, he did not overcome the sense of profit of all arrangements or let's say the owner or any of the institutions or national parks but only in 2013? Did no one know how to earn a living in national parks or some kind of catering activity? But here's what the Minister of Protection thought of these days. And here we hear the lady from the Municipality of Funtan, a million and a half visitors from Brijuni. And we're talking about we're going to single out all those hotels there, that we're going to give it to someone to make instead of the current 350 beds, 1000 or 2000 or 500 as someone says depending on cost-effectiveness, and that's why the part that's talking about concessions that have been up to 30 years is increasing to 55 years. Because tourism we will recognise is not a highly profitable activity and it needs one longer period to return any investment. Can we ask ourselves what kind of status national parks will have as public institutions at such a time? They're public institutions, I think they're nonprofits. All that profits from all of their revenue activities moving on several basiss from the state budget means from our own activity from the use of protected natural values, from fees, from some other sources in accordance with the law and regulations what are we going to do with their incomes? Is there a time when the minister singles out a certain activity and that in the concession of another private investor does this remain public institutions, do they remain, or become some mixed non-profit profit society? Will the task of these employees there be, say, on Brijuni to feed those animals that we have there in that small zoo, will they maintain that nature so that someone as a private investor takes for themselves the profits of these natural values and beauty? I'll read about it by a 1911 gentleman when we talk about the Brijuni. "When the Brijuni Islands are still undiscovered and almost inaccessible monuments from all periods are discovered and available by research then a beautiful island will be a unique museum rich in architectural inventory of high artistic and historical values. All cultures that have inhabited the coast of the northern Adriatic throughout history will eventually be attributed to one monument of the architectural heritage or another fracture by proving their presence." Will we also, in this form of Nature Protection Act, which allows for exactly what I've been talking about, show the presence of current policy in this area of some modern, better-ordered hotel rooms, accommodations, different architectural arrangements or something? That's the basic question. Is this our task, and is that how we protect nature if we know that the minister has already said that he should allow up to 30% of the floor area more in building accommodation facilities on existing foundations and even where there are some hidden warehouses I don't know of the former armies, they may have left those areas unedited, so are we going to protect the extra 30% of the beauty we have in Brijuni National Park? Why should they be allowed everything, let alone in the Kornati, to tear down all private houses and the existence of people living there, who are also struggling to survive in the area and live for at least a few months in the season of income that they can get from visitors coming to the national park? These are all questions that open up a bill like this. When do we even protect nature? They showed experience the moment the first shovel was buried. Everybody's getting up and everybody's doing something. Everyone's trying to stop something. I don't know the OMBLA lately, so Srdj and so on. So we have people who want to take care of a certain area, but there are also those who want to force investment into that space. Does this law bring any balance between these legitimate requirements on the one hand and the other? I don't think so, that he's still more in the function of these investments. I come from an environment where there aren't many protected areas, but people have managed to protect almost everything with their behavior. Both the forest and the beaches and the individual entire islands will be islands because one of the best protections may have been what may have been bad for us, which is the waste of property, numerous unresolved property relations, but also spatial documentation that has made some activities impossible in the areas. And if we had attractive areas, we do. Let me just point out both Goli Otok and Grgur who, with their historical heritage or values, are also areas of concern and are not protected by anything, and at least with such a form of law. And just in the end a few words about these protected animal species that cause great damage to the islands. Autochton game of wild boars that destroy not only nature but also livestock and agriculture in all the islands, which when it begins to solve as a problem simply from the full jurisdiction of all ministries ultimately solves no one. And this law forbids everything, bans it and the law of the Ministry of Agriculture, prohibits it and hunting alliances, etc., but the situation is quite different on the ground so that even these wild pigs sometimes become a tourist attraction, near the hotel, at the very entrance to the hotel or within populated areas. Thank you, Vice President. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42603	Time's up. Thank you very much. We have reported four replicas. First respected colleague Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42604	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, you said that we were very often mentioned this morning that we have been successful in protecting the environment and nature so far. He wouldn't agree with that finding if he'd figured it out because we've only had light circumstances that saved us from devasting space, and little is the result of some of our common sense behavior over the past decade. So I'll just say a few reasons. One is the unpopularity of this country, and the other is more important is total deindustrialisation in the last 20 years, which reduced the emissions of everything that arises as a byproduct of technological processes, but if we see what an individual in this society is and what society has done to preserve nature, then we can say that we have fallen to the test. I'm not mentioning this to you, not to go in your line, but to appeal once again to all institutions in society and the public and society in full to turn the story around. We have witnessed the past few decades in which we have devastated nature with lawless construction, we have witnessed how we have devastated nature with unreasonable waste management, we have witnessed how we have mismanaged the areas that had the formal nature park regime, national parks and future work should be done to raise citizens' awareness, because without awareness in every individual in this society that these categories are not allowed to question, which are of general interest, we will find it difficult and without full public involvement we will hardly be able to do anything in this area. I don't know how many good laws we can make, but if a citizen isn't deeply aware that they need to be implemented, then nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42605	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42606	That's why I started my exposure by agreeing whether we were successful or not. All the clubs claim we are. If we did, then this law is an upgrade and it needs to be better. But if we're not in this law, there are provisions that say we're gonna get worse. That's a big difference. What do we have in practice, under the existing law or by this which will now come? There's not a lot of big news. Here is an example you have told you about the disposal of municipal waste, the central County dump of Mariščina in the vicinity of Rijeka or the more accurate area of Viskovo. The problem they're trying to solve is not working out. The problem that's trying to solve the waist isn't working out, because we're coming into conflict with each other. Some say if something is a central dump 2km from the source of drinking water then the question arises whether we have protected the water from what can happen by disposal of waste. Who's right? The profession says she's right, the citizens think they're right. They start their eco-stations, they block the roads. And what does the Nature Protection Act say? He's prescribing the procedure that's been carried out both the one before and this one now. I don't see much difference. And what will be in the future? I think that the central dump for the Primorje-Gorski County will, for example, be built with opposition from people, along with many protests and everything else. If that's a contribution to protecting nature, then I say every legal proposal is good, and then this is what we got today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42607	The second line is the esteemed colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Listening to you, Mr. Boric, and listening to today's discussion of your HDZ colleagues, especially Mr. Mesic, one could conclude that you were never really in power and that Mr. Mesic was never the most responsible person to protect nature in the Republic of Croatia. I know why you're bothered by these articles of the law from 178 to 193 which determine concessions in national parks. You are disturbed for this reason because this law supports sustainable concessioning, unlike the previous practice that consisted of political staffing. You actually want to preserve the acquired state, you want to keep the national parks as they used to be, and that's that they were countries in the country where you staffed your people the way you wanted them to. And if you need an answer to the question whether you were successful, you were not successful and therefore this law is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42609	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42610	You've completely misunderstood my debate because I've put a very good profit- and nature-protection ratio no matter what you're talking about. I am pleased that the Minister of Environmental Protection has prescribed that he will adopt a rule on the use of telephones, cars and all of those privileges of directors of national parks to put under control the personnel he himself has appointed not to create nonsense for him and to be daily news in all the media. Because what we've been witnessing and what we've been witnessing for the past year and a half is exactly what you're now hating us for. And it's just humanizing, it's just creating one layer of privileged people who are there with the minister's ready and own basic activities to single out to show success, their own success in managing the most valuable natural resources of this country. 8 national parks, 11 nature parks, two strict reserves and a number of lower categories of protection are enough for us to be considered a sufficiently protected state. Although in this respect, especially in this part of Nature 2000, you have reduced the number of protected areas to enable this, which is that those who have faced certain obstacles because it was protected areas of the Republic of Croatia in order to remove it and find some of their reasons why something should be passed and so does this poor Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42611	The third line is representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42612	Here's my colleague, Boric, the concessions. Sometimes these laws are written when we already have a predetermined concessionary. And then we MPs discuss and debate putting ourselves in the service of nature protection and probably the concessionary has already been determined. Now there's something about political staffing. As far as I've seen in the last year, all directors have been removed. And set up along the way, I didn't quite notice that there was a public tender except that expensive SUVs were being purchased, except for flowers, new furniture, new carpets, new chairs, new pills, and I don't know everything. But here I can imagine a kind of activity that is related, for example, to Plitvice Lakes National Park. I think there's an entrance of 100 kuna per person somewhere, that daily tour card. Well, there's someone we can give it to in a concession, so just because we're obviously as a state unable to use it and put it into service, then we're going to give it to a private, private concessionary. Or possibly on Krka give concession to an individual who has a particular party card,... That it was better before, so he's gonna sell lamb there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I was there alone even allowed to bathe especially when they don't run, so you can jump into those wells full of water etc.. Well, it would be good to have one of those concessionaires where everyone can have a certain discount.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42613	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42614	Thank you very much. Well esteemed colleague Vinkovic, here I agree in that part that apparently the Law is written in a way that it is possible that there is already someone who is interested in, say, Brijuni National Park because it would not be discussed then. The minister wouldn't have sent it off. And the day we heard the explanation of why it was done. For example, for Plitvice Lakes, why would it be appropriate to give hospitality there, i.e. and accommodation and all that that follows in the concession because it's where they're warmed up on the mule. So ecologically unacceptable, energetic, environmentally unacceptable energy. And now that's enough reason for us to deliver everything we have out there from the camp, from those hotels that have been restored by severe torture after the war, etc., to someone and let them take the profits there. Because we can't possibly influence the director of that national park to change that energy, so it's something that's more environmentally acceptable today. Unfortunately, we listen to a lot of these explanations, but the outlines of this Law as well as the intentions are very, very clear. And that is why I repeat again that for me this is not the Nature Protection Act, but a hidden law on strategic investment in protected areas of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42615	The right to say the closing word is now received by the environment and nature minister, respected Michael Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42616	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. One of the fundamental questions that has been raised here among others is why are we passing the Nature Protection Act? The answer is actually very simple. The Nature Protection Act is one of the most important laws related to the environment and nature. One of the laws which ensures the implementation of certain constitutional provisions and categories relating to the conservation and protection of natural resources, natural goods which are of exceptional interest to the Republic of Croatia. Why we must bring it before we enter the European Union, the answer is also very clear and has been indicated in the light of the law. Because it implements, allows for the implementation, or adoption of a Regulation establishing Nature 2000 or establishing a Croatian national ecological network that will become part of the European ecological network. In addition to harmonising with the provisions of certain European directives, this Nature Protection Act also enables the implementation of certain provisions of the CITES Convention on cross-border traffic of strictly protected wild species. Of course, this law also has many provisions affecting the everyday lives of people, the economy and all social stakeholders. And why did we go in two readings? No matter what the European law is about which there is a possibility of going and in an emergency procedure, I insisted that a broad public debate be conducted and that all those who followed know that the debate on this law has been under way continuously since the 2nd month, full of four months. In addition to all these legally prescribed public inclusion obligations, through discussion with the professional public, all these provisions are respected and even above what is standard and what is prescribed. Why, precisely because we wanted to get quality answers and we wanted to install into this law the most qualitative, best solutions in order to make those injustices that are in existence, still existing law applied in terms of non-implementation, inexecutability in practice in order to correct it with this proposal. That's how this issue is about fishing. Finally, after a decade, I would say that the struggles and demands of the people of Maloston Bay to finally resolve the issue. This legislative proposal addresses the issue. Of course, it is not just the job of one ministry but also the Ministry of Agriculture, but it is in preparation for a new law on marine fisheries, and we already know that this proposal will actually resolve this issue where all protected areas will remain the fishing seas and today it was one of the main obstacles why fishing in Maloston Bay is not possible, except that in four categories of protection, a special strict reserve, national park and nature park will be possible to carry out this activity but under strictly prescribed conditions of nature conservation. And in this way we allow the co-existence of man and nature, but in a way that is sustainable and that preserves these natural resources in this sense the possibility of restoring the fish fund. When we talk about funding the Biodiversity Management Strategy here, I'd just clear up one illusion. It is impossible to finance all the activities of this national strategy through parks of nature and national parks in a way that unites these institutions into a new institution because the balance is inexorable, it is very clear, there is not enough extra funding. If these nature parks and national parks perform their basic functions, there is not enough money to meet all the objectives set by this national strategy. In addition to the fact that this National Strategy for the Management of Biodiversity prescribes certain obligations and other resolutions, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport, so all resolutions affecting total biodiversity in the Republic of Croatia, resources must be provided in the state budget, out-of- budget funds. But what I want to give here is an emphasis on funding from the European Union funds, and it is precisely Natura 2000 that is not a fence that we are going to put on 37% of the territory but is a Natura 2000 instrument, a mechanism that we are going to spend the preservation of biodiversity together with man, with the co-existence of man and nature through the creation of new jobs. Yeah, through agri-environmental measures, through rural development. This is all that can be financed through Nature 2000 from the European Union funds. It was said that the local community had been excluded by this law. I didn't read it anywhere. One of the basic goals of Nature 2000 is that it is necessary to include the local community because where man went missing there and the biodiversity that we have protected. This co-existence of man and nature should be ensured but with the clear rules laid down and that is what this law includes and one of the basic objectives is to involve the local community, local self-government and regional self-government. It was said that it was unclear that this law would define how protected areas would be managed. Then we have an article 129 that says very clearly, 130, that protected areas are managed by public institutions. It is prescribed how the director is appointed, how it is managed by that public institution, everything is precisely defined. But there is a possibility that two or more protected areas can be managed by a public institution. In that sense, we are talking about reforms. You have an example of Velebit, one mountain, three protected areas, three public institutions. One possible solution will be, which will go in terms of rationalisation but rationalisation that will not be contrary to the management goals of these areas, which are not the same with the objectives of Brijuni National Park or Kopački rit Nature Park. We're not putting in the same basket of pears and apples. This provision also allows for several protected areas to be managed under clearly prescribed conditions and rules and methods of management, so that several protected areas can be managed by one institution. And last, not least, perhaps most important in this political sense, Plan 21. Plan 21 didn't say he was going to start an agency. Why, because when we went out to the citizens and told them what we wanted to do, we talked about the goals. And one of the most important objectives when we talk about nature, the high objectives set are to improve the management of protected areas. How are we gonna do that? It's a tool, it's a tool. It is possible through the National Park Agency, and it is possible to improve the existing system or there are other different models that are known in world practice. What's proven on the basis of the profession, professional analysis is that faster, more effective results will be achieved if we go to improve the existing system. And these are the main arguments why you don't go to risk with the establishment of another agency that we know of, it's proven to be, the profession has assessed the high risk of implementing such a decision. The first time needed for implementation, political risk, financial risk and sociological risk. So, on the side of improving the existing system, there are significantly more arguments. And the goal that we highlighted in Plan 21 and which we have in some way signed with citizens is achieved in a faster and more efficient and rational way. In some ways, the debate ended up in a debate about the National Park Agency. That's an important question. But in this united debate, we also had the Environmental Protection Act, which is a roof law in this area, a really important law, and I believe that all those improvements that I was talking about in the opening part of the introduction that here will be seen both in practice and in application. And here's what I'm trying to say is that we've really tried to get in front of you on your benches, to make a law that's quality and that will allow you to invest. Because protecting the environment isn't for itself. It must enable development, sustainable development, including investment and environmental protection that must and can go hand in hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42617	I thank the ministers. Two replicas have been reported to this final presentation of yours. First Agent Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42618	Dear Mr. Minister, Plan 21 is what is written in Plan 21 would not be so interested in us, but rather in the plan that the Kukuriku coalition received most of the votes in the previous parliamentary elections. However, many things are not written in this Plan 21 that happened in these years and a half. But regarding nature protection, you will still have to explain it carefully to your predecessor at the ministry post, as she claims it is recorded and written. On the other hand, as far as the whole of Plan 21 is concerned, he no longer exists at all, that we simply clearly and loudly tell Croatian citizens, because among other things in this plan is written in bold letters, I read it carefully. Instead of decentralisation, we got a completely centralized state. I will not enter the economy now, jobs, number of employees, number of unemployed, number of pensioners, standards of people, etc. Also in this Plan 21, it reads in one section when it comes to tax discharges, even a reduction in VAT. So instead of reducing the value added tax, we got an increase in value added tax, etc. etc. But I think you're an extremely rational man, so you know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42619	The minister estimates there is no reason to respond to this replica, so we will hear the next replica of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I noticed this at the end you said we'd see through conduct and practice. It kind of reminds me of those times when a certain politician said she was gonna handle things on the walk, and it's not going well. The other thing I noticed is that you said you weren't reading that somewhere else the role of local self-government was neglected. You see how different it can be to read in different ways. We didn't see it very prominently, and mainly in the part about the financial frameworks discussed earlier by our colleague Hrg. But in any case, this co-existence of man and nature is necessary, and in that part, surely local self-government can offer much. And now you in that part are thinking one way to say that there are these possibilities of various, intertwinations, and you mentioned rural development. So I want to add in that part that certainly there are great possibilities, but the question is, I know this area well, the area and agriculture and everything. I know, so it's a question of how much of that can be achieved. A certain time ago, the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture was shut down in a way, and whether those other services that can take over and withdraw these significant funds were trained. There's been a catastrophic failure, and in that part, they can't be, they're not as optimistic as you're stressing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42621	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It's 13:30. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. when we continue with the Final Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Support and Rural Development. Thank you very much. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42622	Final proposal of the Nature Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 301. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments have been submitted by the special table to the MPs. I'd like the Minister of Environmental Protection of Honored Michael Zmajlovic to show himself. Let's get this straight. Amendment of Honored Representatives Mirela Holly No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42623	It is not accepted because the article can be supplemented in order not to violate the existing structure of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42624	Please show the honorary minister, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42625	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42626	Amendment No. Two respected MPs, Myrela Holy, respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42627	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42628	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. Amendment No. Three, same respected MPs, Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42629	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42630	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. The 4th Honored Representatives of Mirala Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42631	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42632	Thank you very much for becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 5. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42633	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42634	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. The 6th Honored Representatives of Mirala Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42635	The content of the proposed article is accepted but not in a way to add a new Article 98a but to supplement the existing Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42636	I'm asking the applicant for an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42637	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42638	Thank you very much. Accepted in modified format, you do not have to withdraw. Can we do that? ... All right, all right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Amendment No. The 7th Honored Representatives of Mirala Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42639	It is not accepted because the same objective can be achieved by the additions to the existing Article 7. The law so as not to violate the existing structure of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42640	I'd like an esteemed representative of Miral Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42641	I'm sorry about that, but I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42642	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 8. HDZ Representatives' Club, the Honorable Ministers' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42643	In part, it is accepted by adding paragraph 4 which reads: "Owner or holder of land rights on which a spell object is located if the same holder of the permit of the Ministry of Organized Visiting, Using or Editing a Spellological Object or its part prior to the entry into force of this Act has the right of a concession under equal conditions."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42644	Sustained, we'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42645	Sustained, yes. Thank you very much. In a changed form. Thank you very much to the club representative. Amendment No. Nine. The HDZ Representatives Club also.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42646	It shall not be accepted because the method of carrying out the fishing activities is governed by a special regulation and by a Regulation on the protection of the protected area to be adopted under Article 142. The Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42647	On behalf of the applicant of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42648	Mr. Minister, today we have put into the agenda of the proposal for a Fisheries Act which is not in line with this article which you have set out in the Nature Protection Act. According to the proposal of the Nature Protection Act, fishing is not allowed in a special reserve while maricculture is allowed at the same time. I don't see what that is to make fishing a larger polluter compared to mariculture. While in the Law that we have adopted today, which you say will be regulated by neither maricculture nor fishing, it is not prescribed as an activity that can be carried out but that this will be settled by a special sublaw of the Minister for Environmental and Nature Protection. If we have included this Law growing mariculture then we in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community and such is the proposal and the cities and municipalities and the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva, so towns and municipalities in the Maloston Bay area to include fishing. The more the fishing opportunities will be promoted, the more the maricculture will be promoted, as this fish catch would primarily refer to fish predators that destroy clams in the Bay of Maloston. Therefore, we disagree with your position and request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42649	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. Nine. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 10th Honored Ministers of the HDZ Club of Representatives also.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42650	It is not accepted because it leaves the possibility of better managing and reducing the costs and rationalising the business of a public institution whose areas overlap can be connected to a public institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42651	Please, on behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42652	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42653	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42654	Yeah, all right. Okay, Mr. Minister, if the Nature Protection Act doesn't determine how to manage protected areas of nature, I don't know what the Nature Protection Act should do. It is the same as if we were to pass an air traffic law and leave the possibility or a vague provision whether we would establish an airport in Zagreb or not. Or to arrange maritime transport and seaports and pass laws and do not know whether Rijeka will be managed by the Rijeka port administration and whether it will be established. Therefore, if something is to be regulated by the Nature Protection Act, it is necessary to regulate the way in which protected areas of nature are managed and to define whether an individual protected area will have its own facility for managing that protected area or not. We hold that, we do not agree that the Government is past Parliament's decision and that it regulates how to manage protected areas of nature, as we do not agree with the possibility of establishing a single national park agency that would manage all protected areas of nature from Mark's square, so also national parks, which would also manage nature parks. There is no reason for Mljet National Park to be managed from Zagreb, to manage Kopački ritoma from Zagreb, to manage all national parks and all nature parks from one place where there are facilities that are intended for it and that have proved to be good. And that these institutions justified their establishment of speeches and the position of the expert group financed by the United Nations, or the UNDP, who said that between the establishment of the National Park Agency and the existence of the present system of management of protected areas of nature prefer an existing system that each protected area has its own establishment. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42655	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 10. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number 11 of Honored Representative Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42656	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that an analysis of international and domestic protected areas by GEF has shown that the social, economic and political costs of the establishment of the National Park Agency are not justified because... management can be made more effective and more effective to ensure that the existing system is improved. It is not realistic to expect that the activities envisaged by the strategy and action plan for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity will be financed only from the Agency's resources, as the strategy aims to ensure the protection of nature throughout the country and is an obligation for the state to provide resources in the state budget, extra-financial funds and European Union funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42657	On behalf of the motionary, the respected representative, Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42658	I don't accept this argument, but I'm still going to withdraw the amendment because I don't want to put my colleagues in an awkward situation at the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42659	The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Amendment number 12 of Honored Representative Mirela Holy. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42660	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42661	Dear MPs Amendment number 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42662	... an explanation. [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42663	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment number 13 of Honored Representative Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42664	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42665	Thank you very much. Dear representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42666	Same explanation for all amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42667	Any further amendments to yours? Okay. Dear Ministers Amendment No 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42668	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42669	He's retired. Number 15 has been withdrawn. Number 16 has been withdrawn. Number 17 has been withdrawn from the amendment of the same representative. Number 18 of the same representative has been withdrawn. Number 19 of the Committee on Legislatives, Honored Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42670	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42671	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. Can we get a score? I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 1 abstention, have been passed the Nature Protection Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42816	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Can we? Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. Here we go - Final proposal of the Act on support for agriculture and rural development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 396; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. You've received reports. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina is with a co-worker. Minister, intro? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42817	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. Given the upcoming accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and at the same time the adoption of the common agricultural policy, it is necessary to replace the existing legal framework governing the system of support for the agriculture sector by a new law consistent with the relevant part of the EU acquis and the way in which the sector is supported in the EU. The text of the new Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, which regulates part of the support to the sector under the common agricultural policy and state support financed by the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, is therefore proposed. Within the framework of the EU's common agricultural policy, this law regulates the area of direct support directly to which rules of implementation of the direct support and financing system are directly applicable from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia. The law therefore regulates competences in the implementation of the EU roof financial regulation, which prescribes the way in which the common agricultural policy is financed and controlled. This is Council Regulation No. 1290/2005. and the basic Regulation implementing the Programme of Direct Support under the common agricultural policy and in accordance with Council Regulation 73/2009. In this respect, the tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture are defined as the bodies responsible for implementing those Council Regulations and the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development as the implementing body which administers and pays support to users. The law also lays down the elements necessary for the implementation of the Direct Support Programme, such as users, farm counselling system, the use of the integrated administrative control system, the calculation of rights and payment and direct support. The law prescribes support measures under the Direct Support Programme which, in accordance with the outcome of the negotiations, apply to the Republic of Croatia including production-related support, premiums in livestock for suckler cows, sheep and goats, as well as the possibility of using specific support in certain clearly defined cases. As regards the financing of the Programme of Direct Support for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the possibility of an annual location for direct support programmes of EUR 373 million since 2013 as well as a possible annual location for demining agricultural land amounting to EUR 9.6 million has been established. It is also defined a 10-year period during which the Republic of Croatia will use part of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund with the possibility of co-financing of the Direct Support Programme until the full amount of the annual allocation by the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. For 2013 it is possible to finance from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund of 25%, 2014 will be at our disposal 30%, '15. 35%, and only in 2022, we will have support from the Direct Support Programme paid completely from the EU budget. Unlike the Programme of Direct Support, rural development measures under the common agricultural policy are financed by public funds and by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and by private resources of the users. For measures to be implemented in the new EU programming period 2014-2020, a 333m-euro allocation is foreseen for the Republic of Croatia annually from the rural development fund in question and part of national co-financing is required for the use of these funds. Since no legal basis for the common agricultural policy or a new reform package for the new budgetary period 2014-2020 has yet been adopted at EU level at this time. The law regulates only the basic provisions on the future rural development programme of the source of funding, as well as the competent and implementing bodies. In addition to support under the common agricultural policy, the Republic of Croatia has the possibility to finance support in the transitional period of three years following its entry into the EU in accordance with the accession contract for certain extremely sensitive sectors of its own resources. The law therefore lays down the basic elements for the implementation of payments in extremely sensitive sectors as forms of State support for agriculture. For these support measures that are paid exclusively from the state budget, a possible annual total of 167 million 594 000 and 780 kuna is established and refers to support for sugar beet, extra virgin and virgin olive oil, tobacco, dairy cows and breeding pigs. In addition to those aid to highly sensitive sectors, the law lays down rules for other types of state aid in agriculture and rural development whose providers are central authorities of the state administration, units of local and regional self-government and any legal person who grants state support. The law regulates the obligation to report State support measures which state support providers wish to finance from their budget and regulates the obligation to submit annual reports on the measure implemented. The proposal for a law defines the jurisdiction and jurisdiction in respect of administrative inspection, authority and manner of handling of the agricultural inspector in the exercise of inspection control and infringement provisions in the case of the implementation and violation of the provisions of the law and of the transitional and final provisions. The adoption of this law until the time of EU accession is necessary because of the obligation to directly apply the EU acquis which regulates the area of direct support for agriculture in accordance with the provisions of Council Regulation 73/2009 in order to adapt national legislation from the moment of EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42818	Thank you, Minister. We have a replica of your exposure. Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said the program would be implemented through the Ministry and through the Payment Agency. So I'd just like to express a little bit of a slight doubt here based on what's going on because how payment agency offices are moved to county centres and remote practically from agricultural producers that there are a lot of problems in the field there are a lot of dissatisfaction of agricultural producers although I know that the Agricultural Agency and the Advisory Service should do all this but it still doesn't work. My, let me say such a suggestion and a suggestion here in this section is to see in this Regulation of the paying agency and in the Statute of the paying agency to make an amendment to allow at least two days a week or one day a week that service will be dislocated in that part of direct contact with people so that they can come closer to some bureaucrats that should be made there and then in those centres it is processed. I think that this would make a lot of difference in the work, nothing significant would happen in this section about running for EU funds and respecting EU rules, and that would certainly be much better for people. In fact, a lot of local self-government units are under pressure and Malta is not being prepared to take action to collect signatures in order to in any way force or force the ministry and competent services to do so or the agency to do so. I don't think there's any need for that, and that could really be dealt with by this one maneuver to the satisfaction of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42820	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg understands your intensities and suggestions and from the resources of the head of local self-government and someone who lives and works with agricultural producers, but is generally almost injureable for the reason that one of the conditions for accreditation obtaining the accreditation of the paying agency was, in fact, a concentration and respect of everything agreed and with respect or compliance with the requirements of all those security and private obligations that the Agency must carry out in its work was de fact that it was working at the level of regional offices. I will note that out of nearly 100,000 farmers who apply for support in agriculture about 30% are now using the internet and working their applications via the Internet and there is no problem. And what I agree with is that all other services that everything should be a service also talk about the Advisory Service and other agencies must be much more flexible and much more efficient in their work as a service to the agricultural producers themselves. It will be, believe it will be. And there are still these regional centres where users can come in and get all the necessary information on their own applications, but also anything that may be further needed. There's no this possibility that once again I say for accreditation we've had to meet a series of very strict criteria and measures. One of them was this one. The regional centres of the agency are set up and must function as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42822	Thank you. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42823	Dear Mr. Minister with his associates, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law on support for agriculture and rural development with the Final Bill. I would say that this is one of the most important laws that apply and will affect the lives of our farmers and for the production and price of food in general for the village. Let me talk about this Bill proposal before I start to look back perhaps some distant past, but I think it's worth mentioning because not today we wouldn't have talked about it if it hadn't been for 2004 and in 2006 the Ministry of Agriculture didn't start negotiations that could rightly be said were the most difficult negotiations, so far the most difficult, that three chapters, 11th, 12th and 13th were negotiated, and when they ended negotiations that both the European Commission congratulated and the competent ministry, the then minister and the then government on the so-called agricultural policy. Since 2004, the then government has been able to say practically preparing for this day, or for the 1st. 7. Because agricultural support increased sharply by one billion and 600 million kuna in 2011 to 3 billion and 670 million kuna. Supports related, among other things, to direct payments, to the rise of permanent deposits, to investments. For example, it is. In this sector, some thousand new farms were raised, built, all in the capacity of the competitiveness of agricultural products, e.g. in milk production. So from 530 million pounds of milk, we raised the production to 680 million, so that's some increase of 150 million pounds. And as far as chapter 12 is concerned, I simply have to say again, it refers to veterinary and phytosanitary surveillance. There is also great progress and it has been achieved in this chapter. It's been planted among other 10,000 new acres of vineyards, so we have 30,000 of those then. Ten thousand new ones were planted, but we also have 10,000 new modern orchards. But it wasn’t just thinking about it that way, but it was far - reaching thinking about this day and how this same fruit and vegetables would be preserved. So they co-financed the construction of a new 12 ULO refrigerator capacity of about 400 thousand tonnes. Five thousand acres of new olive groves have been planted. In parallel, the market for agricultural products was regulated, the purchase of mandarins, olive oil and grapes was co-financed. All of this created an assumption from one side of the increase in production and on the other hand the farmers were provided with a legal ransom and marketing. At the same time, it was reflected through the VAT from which it benefited and was also in the budget and the state of Croatia. For example, the results of such a agricultural policy are visible. Now we can say about the Mandarin because since 2003, when the total production was 20,000 tons, production has risen to 70,000 tons. It has begun to buy out these fruits and to finance the buyout, thus increasing competitiveness, and we can now say with the right to claim that Mandarins and exports are very important in regulating the agricultural policy markets in Croatia towards the European Union. What I'd still like to say is that from chapter 12, for example, Also negotiated that on 2 October of last year, we are allowed to export pigmeat and gamemeat to the European Union. This one, the protocol lasted five years. Reference laboratories are also harmonised, which is also very important. So, you should have had a lot of strength, you should have had a vision and we can be satisfied today because regardless of all the criticisms and the years' references and that I am now not all the year 2011 has been a reference year and it had to be. This is because since the SPF regional model has been fully applied since 2012, it has been tested, so the complete system has been considered and in 2013 it is the year in which we move to funding from the European Union. And it's in reality the wisdom of all this. In 2013, in the agriculture budget, the Ministry of Agriculture received the denominator of the losers in 2013 because they had simply fallen, the budget was reduced. Croatia closed the negotiation procedure with the European Commission for Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development. And the objective of these negotiations was to ensure that food supply was precisely stable at affordable prices and at the same time to provide farmers with adequate income. In addition to support for agriculture, the emphasis was also on promoting rural development and tourism. Croatia should therefore retain a similar level of payment after entering the European Union for a few days. It took 300 to 400 million euros. The share of European funds in the first year of membership is 25% of the total amount of 373m euros while the remaining amount is from national funds. The next 10 years' national funding will gradually be reduced every year so that, after 100% of the support funds will then come from the European Union. This means that in the first year of membership, the Republic of Croatia will receive 93.20m euros, 2014 and 373m euros in 2023, respectively. To finance rural development measures within the agricultural fund, 330m euros will be available each year from 2014. Croatia has been left with the possibility that in the first three years of membership, in the first year of 92.3 million plus 20% of rural development and up to 20% of rural development funds can be transferred to direct payments and that is what is very well negotiated in this chapter. The 2013 budget for direct payments in agriculture provides for a billion and 599 million, and from the CAP envelope under the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act it is clear that 2 billion 475 million kuna should be provided. We can ask ourselves how this will be found in reality and how this will happen when it is found necessary to provide 2 billion 214 million kuna for direct payments and 301 million for rural development measures, and which unquestionably leads to a lack of 600 million kuna in the budget to implement such a policy. But what's there is. Also, in our discussions so far, we've talked about the budget, and we were just wondering where these 600 million kunas would move, but probably in the ministry count on it to come to that. We recently had the Agricultural Land Act, and it's my opinion, but it's also an opinion in our club, but these representatives who discussed it were simply what they were counting on, which is that there are a million acres of unprocessable land to be leased with, it's just plain obvious that it's not true. We're currently, here's hoping to get some data from the Ministry of Agriculture from which we'll find out how many countries were leased to raise production. According to the European Union Agriculture Commissioner's announcements, the beneficiaries of the support in the next financial period 2014-2020 may be only active producers. The term active producers on the ground is not yet sufficiently reasoned because within the producers recognised as active producers there will certainly be a reduction and a number of users of direct payments due to the need to demonstrate their ability to deal with agricultural production, which means that they should have an agricultural professional arrangement of the ESS or some degree of additional education in some registered educational institutions. In Croatia, there were 195,000 users of support and incentives, and of that number, around 100,000 were users of income support. According to the earlier law, they were entitled to support their income as early as 2012, a payment in 2013, which is visible by the insurance funds in the 2013 budget of 90 million kuna. The total number of active farmers would then be 95000, however, the question arises as to who is active in view of the necessary expertise. The rural development measures provided for shall be EUR 330 million and shall be set out in the rural development programme developed according to the criteria of the European Union, and shall be spent by the Rural Development Fund and the State budget funds in proportions as provided for in the European Union and prescribed rural development. It is important to stress that the funds under this programme are approved on the basis of a public tender, that there are a lot of complex procedures for proposing public procurement and enforcement procedures. For all projects proposed by municipalities, cities and counties, it is necessary to have the documentation and permits prepared, which will be the obligation of legal and natural persons to tender. For most measures, the basis will be a solution to property-legislative relations, a legalised facility, and this will mean an accelerated procedure for obtaining the necessary permits, and thus obtaining projects in EU competitions for rural development measures. An even more significant problem, we can call it a crucial one, is the real information of our agricultural producers on all the signed documents from which the obligations to meet the criteria and measures arise. respect for the conditions of multiple conformity. I would like to say something about a special financial envelope for the wine sector, which will amount to 10.8m euros annually, with the obligation to respect the ban on planting new vineyards in the EU for all members by 2015. In recent years, the European Union has also financed reeds for massive wine production, and specific support for the demining agricultural land of 9.6m euros is foreseen. The milk production quota was established on the basis of statistical data for 2007 and increased by 2%, representing 765000 tonnes of which 673000 tonnes in purchase and 77000 tonnes for direct sales. The production quota for white sugar is agreed at 192,877 tonnes and 1.4% of the EU's total quota, as well as an import sugar quota for a 40000-tonne refinement, which is considered insufficient by Croatian producers, but after three years Croatian quotas will enter the total European quota of 666000 tonnes, which means that our sugar can compete for it. However, although all three Croatian sugars also received refinery status, since only 15% of the EU sugar has such status, we can say that in some ways a compromise has been made in this segment, but a compromise in good faith and that this is as well negotiated. In negotiations with the EU, the Republic of Croatia also requested a production quota for sugar of 217 000 tonnes and a quota for the refining of raw sugar of 80,000 tonnes. The agreed quota has been reduced by 70,000 tonnes and is such a compromise solution, which will have to be managed by our sugar producers. Orchards and olives can be raised without restrictions. Support is per hectare, ornament will be paid, and if there are no crops on them, or when the land is rested And the bulldozers of the hero will finally come upon their own [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Here it is, I'll try again in the reply to the replica or, of course, I'll try to touch it later in individual discussions. [[Intruding Batinić: Time of fellow Sumrak.]] I just wanted to say in 2006 that 40 laws and 400 sublegal acts were harmonised by the end of the negotiations. A big job was done, a responsible job. Indeed and now the future of Croatian peasants is in my hands I must say these governments, but it is also the responsibility of this ministry. This, of course, we will support the adoption of this law, but here it is, we hope that we will also take care of the paying agency that we think we should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42824	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first one was Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow twilight, you said a lot of money was cut for agriculture. This is true and it is also true that a lot of money has been negotiated in these EU funds packages. The fact is that it will be very difficult to benefit in the good part because it is definitely Croatian peasants, especially the smaller ones, that much has been said in this assembly unprepared for 1.7 and there will be a great flood of small agricultural producers. That's what matters. But you also mentioned that there were harmonised reference laboratories. Well, I'll agree in one piece with you, and in one part, I don't. I'm going to point out something else that's going on in the field. Namely, since I come from the Cross, and several laboratories have been established in the Križevci. There is also the official headquarters of the Croatian Agricultural Agency in an unfinished building in which a lot of funds were invested a few years ago where the virtually complete service needed to move to one place and ensure good functioning. Unfortunately, two to three years ago, two and a half years ago, no more money was provided in the state budget, and now it is untapped. Same thing with the labs. We just kind of get to the end. Then if we should take that final step, then we don't. There's still a need to equip those labs. It's very much done, it's very complex, it's very much done and prepared. In the end, we're missing some finals, and then here's the appeal here and Mr. Minister to see a little more, sees one condition down there by the labs because we're going to need them. Here's that milk circus that was the same because of the unsupervised labs in the extreme case of independent labs. So, there will be a little more equipment to ensure that they can be fully in line with the legal norms and regulations of the EU in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42826	Thank you. We have a reply from my colleague, twilight, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42827	Thank you very much, Mr. Horg, for giving me a chance to continue. Of course, you've noticed all this well, and you've spoken well about the Agency both for payment and for reference laboratories. What I've been meaning to say has often been put here in the debates you've only established the agency on paper, and you haven't moved on. In order to complete the negotiations, it was necessary to establish a prerequisite for the existence of the Agency and to make the Agency work, thus establishing a register of agricultural holdings, a register of domestic animals, then the ARCOD, a system of identification and use of land parcels and satellite surveillance, a system for the registration of payment rights and ISAP. It's all a prerequisite for this agency to start working. I wouldn't want to just criticize here. I'd just like to say that when the government took over that it was supposed to be much more ready and much more in that theme, a lot more to know that it would continue where it stopped. Unfortunately, the former government lost, the former minister went to continue his work with the same intensity because there is no time to wait. The EU does not suffer waiting. They simply have every law, every step of ours, known our legislation and checked it a thousand times. There's no fraud with them. That's what's important too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42828	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here's my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42829	Here's a colleague who said that as much as I remember farming is a loser in 2013. She was a little more in 2012. It's not a quarter of 25 billion kuna, and it wasn't written in that famous letter to the Kukuriku coalition Plan 21 that definitely doesn't exist, definitely. So 2.25 billion kuna less for agriculture, Croatian agriculture. I don't mean European agriculture. And as for these EU negotiations on agriculture, I think it must be clear that we do not have to and should not make praises, that we have received crumbs from the European table. Because if you take the support that the founders of the EU receive, so the countries they founded and the EU are then that support is ten times greater than here in a small country like Croatia where agriculture is extinct. They're ten times bigger in those countries. And if we continue on this paved path in agricultural politics, then soon we will not grow either, nor have even gardens, and we will not have those tomatoes stuffed, not to talk about the overall state of dairy, warfare, food, processing industry. What is done with land in the Republic of Croatia, etc. etc. But I'll do it more on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42830	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade twilight, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vinkovic, that as far as Plan 21 is concerned, we know more that he is gone and that this was such a dead letter on paper and the deception of the people of Croatia, we will talk about farmers at this hour. I mean, you say the crumbs have been negotiated, and since 2006, it's been working specifically on negotiations. So I told you 40 laws are in accordance with the laws, 400 sublegal acts. I'd say it's a very small number. We here today in two years for the third time, once you came back to us this time you remember the law of the European Commission because it was not well-compliant. That's what I said. There's no fraud. I personally think, and I think most people think they're well-negotiated, too. It could have been better, sure, clear. But just because we started late and what do you say, kid? And our agriculture has been devastated a long time ago. She wasn't devastated since the '90s, she was devastated and much earlier, and I talked about it, much earlier, because young people were leaving the villages, coming into town, hiring, being tenants. There are other old people who worked and now we have nursing homes. Bring a young man back, interest him in it, he must be educated. It's slowly going through this year when they see that they have some kind of financial benefit from it and that unfortunately housing in cities is too expensive, no more, people are out of work. And thank God not that they are out of work but that makes them go back to their country and start thinking in a completely different way. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42832	Thank you. And the last replica, Igor Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42833	Here you go, buddy. Thank you, Vice President. At the end of your debate, you said that the future of Croatian peasants is in the hands of this government. I wouldn't agree with you. It was until today, or July 1st, but you know for a fact that it is now in the hands of the EU because we must respect the EU's common agricultural policy. But what happened to this government? Well, surely Croatian agriculture has not taken the particular importance and interest either for the ministry or for the government, but I must point to the problem, and I believe that this chapter is poorly negotiated on agriculture. Because we don't know what's going to happen to our sugars tomorrow, or by joining the EU, what's going to happen to sugar beets producers? Will they bow down to sugar in County, Osijek or Virovitica and what will these agricultural producers do? The olive groves won't lift safely. However, if it is about raising orchards and vines, we are pushing them back into some market and I could call it free to throw away our test mice, and I mean farmers, in the fight against the lions of the EU's global market, and I'm afraid we're not ready for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42834	Thank you, too. The answer to the replica of my colleague twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42835	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, what I wanted to say, I think that, you know that, but most of you should know, the truth is that the farmer should have adapted to this entry into the EU, but it's equally true when I said that the farmer and the village and in some way in the hands of this government right now. Why? Because the fact is that we need to coordinate, that we have to respect regulations, but another fact exists, that we can also lead in one way and our national policy. So we can also lead our national agricultural development policy but also in other areas as well. And you'll see right now, and now we have some laws to discuss where we can really do it. So, I'm glad, among other things, why should we join the EU? Because we had good laws, we all know it well. Did we respect them? We didn't. But now it's a different story. It will be very difficult to disobey certain legal provisions or sublegal acts. It will be very difficult to disrespect, and that is to arrange order. Here, that's why I'm glad we're joining the EU, among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42836	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic. Here's my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So here is this proposal for a Law on Support in Agriculture and Rural Development, with the final draft law marked as European law, is the result of exactly what we have negotiated. And it is clear and loud to say that there is no joy in our success in the negotiations, that we are fortunate to enter the EU in 107 because this was the only solution to save the situation we pushed ourselves into and made ourselves. And that from a beautiful country that had a perspective, which came out of that association of Balkan and South Slavic countries, we made a country that at some point had no perspective. And that the EU was our only way out and the only practically straw of salvation to be captured by a drowned man. So did agriculture. Here's a colleague of mine said not to go into what happened there after '45. from the creation of cooperatives, I don't know how to clean ceilings, nationalization, dispersal of the population, etc., that during this system that certain things had a positive character. As they were agricultural and industrial combinations that were distributed through conversion and privatisation, they simply disappeared, to come later by those who better understood the Croatian reality of establishing new ones as was then said by large corporations etc. where there was practically a rounding of everything that Croatia once had and where it was employed by several thousand people. Here at PIC Đakovo 3300, if you take out the cooperative and craftsmanship and small and medium-sized enterprises that worked for this PIC, you had one almost full-time employment in Đakovo. And today it's a problem where you have 3,000 people, and 3200 people ended up on the street right from that PIC Djakovo. But the past is the past, we should look at the future in any case even though no one has ever been responsible for the conversion and privatisation of whatever government the results were behind that government, etc. But I'm going back to this law. I'll quote the minister in 18.6.2013, says the minister, so for a year and a half after becoming minister, "the results of my team's work may not be seen enough yet. It will take time to launch positive processes but I am pleased that we have launched things like land reform." After a year and a half, Mr. Minister, that's all an unserious man can say that the results of my team may not be seen. So here's just based on this sentence you can simply offer the party chief a resignation and caste I can't do that if after a year and a half the results don't see. How long would it take you? A decade, two decades, three decades to see the results. Although the results are seen, the results are very visible. That's almost 3 billion kuna less in the state budget for agriculture. Every day in this beautiful country almost twenty family economies that have dealt with livestock go to the drum, almost every day. Almost every day, people remain unsupported, almost every day the ministry promises hills and valleys but it is a fact which is indicated by everyone who deals with agricultural production especially farmers that they are support for 2012 and in 2012 they should stop jumping out of the cobankovici skeletons from the closet as it was picturesquely said. So we are in 2013 that almost 30% of the support is less paid for 2012. The Minister's argument, at least in this interview although something else is happening on the ground, that "the support was paid according to the amount available from the state budget, which was clearly said immediately after the adoption of the 2013 budget." That's what it says in that famous document that I think kids in kindergarten are laughing at, and it's called Plan 21. Then there is another illogicality and it is about this law and support and what Croatian agricultural producers expect as EU support, it is 100% that livestock production and milk production were in special problems Good morning Croatia, only missing that chef with his recipes to wish with good wine and good luck, here is the 18.6. Minister found out so we paid them amounts in almost 100% of the amount to help the sensitive sector. Since I'm not in New York and I'm in these people every day, that's not true. And maybe when we're done with this whole story, maybe this amount of support that we've negotiated with the EU that's significantly less than those of the EU's founding countries, we need to be aware of even a dozen times less support, because after this commendation of the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture, we may not have any more family economies, livestock, warehousing, not to the food and processing industry where it's visible and the way the support is arranged so that I don't read it now from the local industries to those producers or processors that aren't even owned by the Republic, because we also sold it once in a beautiful country in one beautiful day. What hurts most is certainly Article 30, which is rural development measures. So 1.7. The Republic of Croatia is entering the EU and we expect a withdrawal of funds. I will not mention those divisions in two statistical regions and I will not mention Plan 21 where five regions and five statistical regions are so that all regions can withdraw as much money as possible, but here it says that rural development measures will be established through the rural development programme, in the further text of the programme that the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings. Now I don't know whether to say good night Croatia, or say good morning Croatia again. So if we haven't done it by now and we've been preparing for ten years and we haven't done the program, now we're going to do it. For how long? In seven days? 8, 10 or 15? As far as financing is concerned, there is a chemical, state support providers, within the meaning of this Act and central government bodies, so what I find most interesting after all these tax solutions by Mr. Slavko Linic, this Government of the Republic of Croatia unit of local and regional self-government. ... That support can only be given by 2% or 3% of local self-government units, but be assured that 97% of local self-government units have no such possibility, that they barely end with the end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because what it gets from all tax revenues at this point, of all its activities, is only 3 kuna compared to some 100 kunas that go and 97 kuna that go into the state budget. Here there is, I was going to read one, one text like this, I hope the author won't be angry, but I think it paints work, the situation in Croatian agriculture, but also the work of the Minister of Agriculture. And the name is Ratari are the next victims of Jacob's sword, the cattlemen are dead, there's no one to sell corn anymore and the main blow to the warriors is expected in the next two months. They're stockpiling them with unpaid damage, delaying incentives, and heroically in this year's harvest, they could destroy them with great expense for the storage of all medium, medium, small, slightly larger ones, they have to dry, store. There's a hell of a plan, the warlords have to disappear, they need their land, and they can't wait for someone who can't pay rent and our village goes to waste. Itd, etc... And there's this part that says, so what's said, see what tractors they have, what cars they're driving, what pants they're wearing, and soon they might expect to envy the peasants who wear and underpants. It wasn't always like that, sometimes the underpants weren't wearing under their pants, but no one was taking them off, and today our farmers are afraid to take off their pants. And here's what I'm going to do and as mayor who thanks to the citizens of Djakova for the fourth time, ask Mr. Minister don't you think that since December 2011 when you became a minister, when there wasn't even this new Agricultural Land Act where units of local self-government have opened a competition under the existing law, they've made a decision if not already done by a friend or Mr. Pero Cobankovic, don't you think that since 11 months 2011 your team that's been doing so amazingly couldn't make a decision about the competition in Djakova? Be assured that, fortunately, this state also has a Constitutional Court and believe that the city of Djakovo will press charges against the ministry for not doing absolutely. You also have the city council's decision unanimously. Even the decisions of the SDP members who were in the commission. And you keep your mouth shut. Shut up sometimes isn't good. But if you write no publishing or publishing quickly now, be aware that you must explain it well. Because your signature isn't just a paper decoration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42838	We're moving on to the replicas of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42839	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vinkovic, I'll try to give you a quick answer in these few minutes. We talked about that archaic age of big combinations before the '90s, but believe me, at that time, a rich peasant wasn't wanted for that power at all. And that's why they joined them, not to say that it was bad everywhere, but then the peasant is afraid to go to cooperatives and it takes a very long time to realize again that it's not just an uninteresting community but that it should be their own interesting cluster. As for conversion and privatisation, in the constitutional provision, the former government has introduced that crime of conversion and privatisation is not outdated, so I don't know why now here it is for the second time when the SDP is in power with its coalition partners no one has been processed yet and there is no indication that something will be processed. I'll just quickly touch you and tell you the following is, which is negotiated no matter what you say is not well negotiated. In addition, in the first three years of membership, special safeguard mechanisms could be applied in case of disturbances due to increased imports from other Member States of the European Union. The negotiated arrangement also includes the use of national reserves for four sensitive products: milk, tobacco, beef, sheep and goats. The transitional period for the ban on the sale of agricultural land for seven plus two years. The European Commission has provided 45m euros for the implementation of market measures in the Republic of Croatia for the first two years of membership, and as part of the common agricultural policy and Croatian producers will be entitled to export subsidies which cannot be applied for the time being because of their obligations in the WTO. Well, as far as these skeletons are concerned, unfortunately, it seems to me that the Ministry was more concerned with skeletons than with work. Unfortunately, I don't think they've been familiar with everything that's been negotiated. So they didn't get any information. [[Thank you very much. My colleagues time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42840	So let me tell you, the Constitution has changed the Croatian Parliament, and it processes the court, not the governments. Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42841	Well, I'm an esteemed colleague of mine, and I'm saying that maybe we could have gone worse in those negotiations, but in any case, we can't settle for what we have right now. And it's clear to me that your position is to defend it because it's practically known who negotiated it. But I do claim that some things are not well negotiated and that we are practically also in agriculture, but, in all things, we are getting on our knees in the EU because we have been acting this way, because the EU is the only straw of salvation for us. I'm not a Eurosceptic to understand, but it was Croatia's only straw of salvation. And the current state of agriculture, so it's best to talk to those who deal with agricultural production, which is why 20 family farms are being shut down every day. It's not the policy of cities, local, regional self-government, it's the policy of the government and the Ministry of Agriculture, and it's quite clear. Because if he works in the first year, so-called. Savings in the state budget reduce agriculture 2.25 billion kuna then it is clear that the ministry plays a role in the development of Croatian agriculture. That was most visible in the milkman's protest. The Ministry has sided with the processors, not the manufacturer. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42842	Igor Czech, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42843	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vinkovic, you mentioned these famous combinations and peaks. Yes, the fact is that they hired an enviable number of people, workers especially in rural areas. What have we done with these combinations? We can call it privatisation, conversion or robbery, but they're gone. They're gone and we're starting a family farm. And that's how much we can see the happiness of short breath, because what the family farms have created over the past 20 years have to sell out today, they're closing up today because by adopting the famous Agricultural Land Act, they've been brought to ruin. So the question is, what's next? The combination is gone, there won't be any family farms soon. Could be the future of Croatia's original community where we will produce just as much as it takes not to be hungry. I'm afraid such a black picture of Croatia follows in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42844	Replication response. It's not? Yeah. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42845	Well, I'm not going back into the mix, socialism, and I don't know what. I'm just saying that even then, so it wasn't all bad in that system and we didn't have to destroy everything. Some combines and survivors, they got a new owner through stockpiling, etc. and represent a significant thing in Croatian agriculture. However, if we look at the general state of agriculture, so we also have young experts who graduate from the Faculty of Agriculture, they have nowhere to work. They can work and can be registered in a agricultural pharmacy which is a trade because the owner needs to meet certain requirements of the law. They cannot reach the land, and less and less will come; for this Law on land is turned toward the great, and not to the small people, not to those who will remain in the country, but to those who will take advantage of the village and the people who live in the country. And it's just like that. Agricultural land agency. No one in Zagreb will solve the problem in Đakov, Slatina, Osijek, Vukovar, Đurđanci or anything. He has no idea where he is or where he is at the Perkovci near Shima. He has no idea what this is about or what it's about. And that is also the intention through the agency to solve certain problems, stop all those who are thinking positively, who want to get Croatia out of the crisis and that is it. And Linic said it nicely to Jakovina cut the farm, so you can't complain and that's it. The Minister of Slavonia took off the agriculture of 2.25 billion kuna in the first year. In the name of the father, and of the son and of the holy spirit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42846	And Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42847	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Vinkovic. It's easy for you and your colleagues from your club to talk on every topic. A little touch of your former, little present, etc. But I'm saying Chapter XI, XII. and XIII. Very well-negotiated. When you negotiate, sometimes you have to give in a little bit. Negotiation is, in art it's very difficult to do this. But I think these three chapters that, considering everything, they're still well-negotiated. I don't hesitate to say that there have been mistakes. I think it's a combination. You're a little off topic, but you're talking about the current situation in Croatian agriculture. Of course, some combines were supposed to survive and that at least they needed to keep their minds, the core of that, the mind. Today, a farmer isn't gonna study at school, so your dad's gonna let you work the country, no, that's knowledge. Today, knowledge is needed to deal with agricultural production in any segment. It is my opinion that in the very beginning, large quantities of agricultural land were obtained by people who do not know how to deal with it, but they only got it for support. It was in the previous period, of course, necessary for me to fix it. And another thing, paying agencies, a farm advisory service outside the office on the field to those peasants to show them how to make a register and advise them how to work in agricultural production. Furthermore, continue to work, in my opinion, on a very serious business which is the implementation of the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Cruising and I repeat what I always repeat when these topics are, and that is the measure of agricultural land. And the Ministers, if you speak to you, ask our peasants for this last piece of support of this 30.36%? Will they be paid or won't they be paid in the end?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42848	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42849	Well, I'll answer, they're not paid, and the question is whether they'll be paid. That's a fact. That's 2012 support. ... Calm down, you HDZ gentlemen. [[/The intruder es doesn't understand.]] And my colleague Shima, if you want to talk freely, then here, join us, and then you can say whatever you want. But I agree with you that the situation in agriculture is extremely difficult, that the first indicator of where this agriculture programme is headed, which practically advocates the Kukuriku government was clear at the adoption of the 2012 budget. And that little kid is clear. If you take off and take off 2.25 billion kuna for agriculture, then that's a sign of what you think of that agriculture. We have a situation on a daily basis of 20 family farms, not nursing homes, but 20 agricultural holdings are deleted. Not because someone didn't draw X in that form as it should, as the minister knows, so they didn't get the right to support for one sign of X, etc. But 20 active farms can no longer withstand this extremely good policy towards Croatian agriculture, extremely good. But here's the results of that team that we haven't seen yet. I claim that both the results and the work lead to the collapse of Croatian agriculture and the Croatian village, and thus the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42850	On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42851	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with assistants, ladies and gentlemen. At the very beginning, the HNS club will support this law because this law is actually a alignment with the EU acquis as well as most of what we have done in recent months, as well as in recent years in this Assembly and previous colleagues. This law shows which part of the EU's legal gain is in line with Croatian legislation but also shows that certain forms of support for the Croatian agrarian will exist even after Croatia's entry into the EU, although it is quite clear in a completely different way than it has been so far. And thank God that's right. Why do I say that? Because today during this debate, but also in some previous discussions that were related to the laws that came from the Ministry of Agriculture, we listened to a lot of moaning and so much demagogy and indeed had to have a terrible resistance to foolishness, and to endure and listen to everything that was said about the situation in the Croatian agrarian and all those lamentations about who was guilty and how it came about. Why do we lie to each other all the time in this house? When we reach that level of parliamentary debate in which we will debate as serious people who receive some 3, 3.5 personal income average in Croatia for what they do. We have a clear theme, a clear job, followed by the following agenda points because in 12 days, 11 how much, we are entering the EU, and here we are hearing about combinations, about '45, the other day about partisans and Ustashas. It's just that Walt Disney is still missing Mickey and Shiloh and Payo Duck coming out of a novel somewhere and dancing around the hall. Serious debates on agriculture also require a full audience in this assembly. It is today, though, perhaps above average. To comment on certain things of the truth works is that according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia in recent years, a lot of money has been paid in Croatian agrarian as support. It is billions, the total value that covers surely through various types of support is much greater than it is invested in road infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, and this road infrastructure today has an indirect huge benefit for the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. It was true that it was necessary to financially support Croatian farmers because their European colleagues, as we can see through the transfer of the EU acquis, have certain types of support in their business. It is true that a number of agricultural holdings and agricultural companies are experiencing failure and collapse when adverse market circumstances occur and when other things change the conditions of their business. I come myself from the fisheries sector which is an integral part of the powers and responsibilities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Unfortunately, it used to be called agriculture and fishing, like a little thing that I personally don't like about novelty, now it's just agriculture. And I know the truth, you know when we were the happiest and most tough, when we didn't get the incentives. I remember that time, and that's when people fell apart and rose up. Those who did not have enough capacity, strength, and skills to survive failed, and those who knew how to meet various challenges. The fact is that in the agriculture sector itself we find it harder and the fact is that the state had to, once again, financially support Croatian farmers in order to meet the challenge of competitiveness for other producers. However, did what we invested in Croatian agriculture for the past 15 years give the right result. We can talk about whether we've invested enough or not. I think we invested as much as we could and that in Croatian politics, but there is no serious man in the country who would not give Croatian agriculture what is possible. But what's impossible to give it, of course, can't be a topic. And after all the funds that have been invested and all the words spoken about agrarian in public, in the media, in this Parliament in the past few terms, the result of agriculture that failed to ensure self-sustainability, self-sufficiency in the food supply of the Republic of Croatia. The result is the fact that hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land are still under state ownership, as a result of the fact that a large part of these economies depend on whether the state has in its budget sufficient resources to compensate for objective unpreparedness, inoperability, ineffectiveness of such a agricultural sector. And then we hear stories about it shrinking in the budget so much, so much in the budget. It reminds me of a little kid who wants to go out and then asks his mother 100 kunas, and his mother's got 50 in her wallet. Hit the crying. He's asking for a small 100 kuna, and his mother's gone but 50. What can his mother give him, he can give him 50, and if it's a diet, then with those 50, he has to find a way out and everything's okay. Everyone in the context of all the debates in this House is discussing how much we didn't invest in the defense, how much we didn't invest in agriculture, how much we didn't invest in the market, how much we didn't invest in social security, and no one asked where. It's an incredible phenomenon. If people who don't understand politics, who aren't paid for politics, who don't represent themselves to professional politicians, then I would understand that, and then most likely responsible people in this assembly would understand that. But when people who are paid to be responsible politicians in this country perform in a way that ignores mathematics, in every debate ignores mathematics, whenever it comes to money, it's amazing. Who wouldn't want to build the Peles Bridge tomorrow and the new Zagreb airport and all to be ours, nothing to be under concessions. Save us the God of concession, better sell everything. From the debate, we hear things that gentlemen have neither political static nor any other, no matter what you think. And then it's the easiest after 20 years of agricultural policy without a policy that hasn't given adequate results, all to be honest with a man who's been in a porridge for the last year and a half... along with his team and trying to keep the ship from sinking. One who hasn't experienced what it looks like when a ship sinks doesn't know what I'm talking about, which is a terrible stress situation. Everything on Tihomira Jakovina because everything went wrong and everything was great until Tihomira Jakovina, wonderfully, we were exporting ourselves, we were in surplus in everything. You know what we were only in the surplus, only in the fishing sector, and thanks to caged tuna farming, if it wasn't for that, we'd be in the deficit. In all the other parts we were in the minus... in all the other parts. We spend 20 years in agriculture and don't solve problems. Whether some programs are true and God's results, the fact is that out of all these billions of people there has been an increase, said counterpart twilight how many thousands of acres more under the olive groves, the more under the wine line, that's a fact. A part of that means that he's given the results, and no one can argue that. But the money wasn't the only thing we had to do, it wasn't the money we were supposed to do. We should have made more serious moves and looked the truth into our eyes many years ago, and now 11 days before entering the European Union the only thing that encourages us is the fact that we will now have the same opportunities and the same rules and that these Croatian farmers will have the chance to survive, and those who are incompetent will unfortunately be again subject to the concern of politics which in that part at least should be serious, because when we have not seriously responded to all that the agrarians have done in recent years, then we have nothing else left. His colleague Hrg commented on certain things and the unpreparedness of Croatian peasants to enter the European Union 1.7. It's a little weird to me, given the fact that he's the president of the HSS. In this country there is no party of Croatian airmen, there is no party of Croatian fishermen, there is no party of Croatian drivers and professors, but there is a HSS as part of a political tradition that I personally respect as its founders long ago. However, you had State Secretarys, you had ministers, I negotiated with them in my own time and worked with them. You've had a chance to take steps in several terms as a party that is nominally closely specialized, you've had many years at your disposal from this man here, and you haven't done what you should have done. Well, I guess we should be mindful and let the mandate take place and get into that EU and have those changes happen so we can see where it goes. What's his fault that there's no 10 billion in the budget and that he compensates for all the stupidity that's been going on in agricultural policy for the past 20 years, is that his fault? Is that why he did it? There's no money, and that's why there's no money for new MiGs either. Our pilots have been flying in machines for 45 years. The Croatian War Museum in the air has no money for new MiGs. There are no ladies and gentlemen of money for modernising Croatian railways and our trains are falling out unfortunately with tragic consequences, no money. Let's start with that truth in this country, that there's no money. And why is there no money? Well, he could be a colleague of Vinkovic's. He could write a whole essay about it, why there's no money in Croatia, why there's no money in Croatia. It's my wish, so we'll read it together. And that's the truth. But it's very convenient especially with the position of those who are not in power to wait for Tihomir Jakovina to come from a ministry where daily waves of problems come from the field because these people are really in trouble and then slowly iron it here because he didn't do anything for 3 months, 6 months or 9 months I don't know for a year and a half if he didn't get it, and not because he didn't have an objective opportunity to solve everything. However my exposure caused a respectable number of replicas, which means I'm not devaluing. With special pleasure, I'm waiting for replicas. The HNS club will stand behind this minister and his associates in the affairs it performs, Plan 21 of counterparts Vinkovic, and I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42852	You're only entitled to eight replicas. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42853	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Baranovic, I'm very fond of you, but this debate of yours was very antipathetic. ..... you have taken the final word of the defender of our Mr. Jakovina I do not think he should be defended as you defend him. You told us what we were in the debate, and you didn't say anything about the law. You objected that we talked about everything and you said nothing about agriculture but Mickey Mouse and I don't know what not. It's such an awkward HNS policy that doesn't have an opinion. Well, it's not very convenient to talk about everything and nothing, and you're calling us all here in this assembly. At least you're defending us to say our opinion, I don't know if it's because of this Rules of Procedure that's being prepared or something else. And personally, I think you have something to say and I personally think that you have a smart one to say about this very final bill, I really think so. And I don't know how you got the impression that someone was attacking the Minister of Agriculture. No, we talked about facts here today, we spoke openly and honestly, and no one attacks anyone. And we don't know who else in your expert debate about rural development and agriculture is going to help him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42854	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42855	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mrs. twilight, I'm sorry. I'm in the mood for compliments today anyway. As for my intonation and my discussion and its contents, I do not notice that she has significantly strayed from the debates of other colleagues today and listened only carefully to other colleagues and you in the presentation regarding this point very few who stood by the very content of this law. Most of them went astray or went to the debate on the state of Croatian agriculture, so I joined the trend today by referring to it. You'll forgive me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42856	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42857	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for promoting HSS. Tomorrow is the anniversary of the June victims, so maybe this is the introduction, and here I'll be glad to see you at the memorial service tomorrow at half seven o'clock in the cathedral. Why are you calling HSS in this context the longest-ever Croatian party? There's no need. Do not aliminate responsibility for what happened in Croatia. Well, at the time, the HNS was in a coalition with the HSS when HSS was first in the government of the Republic of Croatia in 2000 until 2003. But let's not talk about it right now. You've brought a lot of things out here that I'd like to replicate, so I won't be able to make it because of the weather, but one of your sentences is so "enjoying" me. "When the peasants didn't receive the incentive they were the happiest." Well done, congratulations. Well, I am neither here nor the colleagues who spoke in this assembly on behalf of Croatian farmers and peasants were complaining but we were taking out their moaning and it was: we were never worse and harder in the new Croatian state than we are now. They've never been as closed a door for us as they are now. That's what people say. So if you insult those of us who carry it here, then you insult them, but that's your right. And they need to know you're insulting them. Just keep insulting them, though. And I'm going to ask you a question then, if they were the happiest when they didn't receive anything, how is it that in the European Union the most separate exactly for agriculture? You were talking about matter and diet and 100 kuna and 50 kuna. You know, what if this mother of 50 kunas needs to plant something in the garden so she can give the diet later and eat, so she might invest those 50 kunas in the food and tell her diet that she can't give it to a pickpocket to get out because she has to give for food. That's the point of the whole story. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42858	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42859	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. When I was talking about how happy we were when we didn't receive, I spoke for the fisherman I didn't speak for the farmer. Thank you for your invitation, if it comes, I may respond, given that I respect the Croatian political tradition in which your party and my party have the longest life span. As for this other thing you said, you said that we shared the term 200 and 2003 together, it's true, we were on the highway and you had responsibility for agriculture, the results are visible and can be combined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42860	Branko Vuksic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42861	Dear colleague Baranovic. Well, here's a little bit of a distraction, which is certainly positive because the passion to bring a little into politics is always good. I'm just, uh, one thing I'm going to refer to. You said good, there's a lot of those who object against concessions, then we'll sell it all out. There's a third option. In the third option, I've already noticed several times in your debates you don't think at all, you don't think it's possible that we can be good masters. You in advance declare us incompetent, all we know is to give to another to manage or sell to him. Many countries in the European Union have proved this very third option as the best option. I stand for her, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42862	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42863	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vuksic. I stand for concessions because I don't think we should sell. And I'm thinking very well about that variant, I'd be happy if it were to be available in real time. We don't have time, that's what this is about. We simply don't have time to wait to mature enough as a society in the economy, in entrepreneurship so that we can use all the resources from which we should ensure the existence not only in the future but today, or even yesterday. And for this reason it is necessary to create assumptions that all resources that are on the disposition in this country are as urgent as possible in function. And we're not really able to do it so quickly. And for that reason, I'm a proponent of concessions and fiercely opposed sales of family silver because we've solved the gold a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42864	A colleague of Nancy Tyrelli's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42865	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here is my colleague Baranović, who is very sad when you talk about the past time that has been done, how it has been done and when you speak and address all of us with the tone that you are talking to. If you already want to have an hour of history for all of us and educate us on how we can do it, we can talk to the current Minister of Agriculture. Then it would certainly be good if we all had the responsibility of the present moment together. The milk that has spilled is no longer available and it is unnecessary now to make analysis of who has done what and who is where in spending money or in agriculture policy has sinned. It would be good if instead of criticizing, instead of calling anyone who tells their opinion, we gave some valid argument and a plan to get to the money they don't have. And why the money doesn't have a very easy answer if, for example, we had maybe one thematic session on the subject. So let's see an analysis of all 7, 8 or 9 agencies operating within the Ministry of Agriculture. If we could see the effect of the ministry itself and if we could do quality analysis, then we'd know why there's no money. On the other hand, I agree with you in the part where you say that farmers are likely to be the happiest when their incentives shouldn't mean that the Minister of Agriculture together with everyone in the ministry managed to make a quality, good and profitable strategy for food production and all that the Ministry of Agriculture should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42866	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42867	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't take a friend of mine as a right to tell anyone what they can do. I've never come forward that way, but I have the right, like all the other MPs in this assembly, to debate in a way that I can express my opinion. And my opinion is, and I will repeat it again because repetition is the mother of knowledge. That a whole series of debates were very serious which should have been serious on very serious topics reduced in this assembly to the most trivial level and that instead of talking as responsible people about the scale of things that were being discussed about what was so I don't even know if it belonged to the daily political needs and context. And I fully support you in your proposal that in the debates whether we belong to the position or opposition, it would be desirable for MPs to go through the debate if they had certain knowledge, arguments and ideas, suggestions, to bring it out in an affirmative way, to suggest to the executive authorities what they are wrong about, and not to bring it all down to the eternal model in which we are discussing the law concerning the example of schooling, and to end up on Linić's VAT, because Linic raised the VAT to 25%, so that's how he got up on his left foot this morning, not because he needs to maintain the system to function. 'Cause I guess it's much more desirable for the system to fall so we don't pay off our pensions on the 1st, so we have a couple hundred thousand pensioners who are going to starve to death that month. We are constantly ignoring the facts, and that is why I have expressed my opinion, and of course everyone will, according to their conscience, argue according to their rights in a democratic society in this assembly. I'll personally stick to math. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42868	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42869	Well, it would be best if I gave up the replica since obviously the only constructive debate in this Croatian Parliament would be the desire of the ruling to commend every move they make, to write away, to emulate symphony in honor of the great successes of the Croatian government, but my colleague Baranovic did not. Absolutely not. My return to the past was primarily just a return to see what Croatia once had and what is not now. And it's not all 20 years, at least I don't think that's what you think, you do stupidity in Croatian agriculture, but don't forget from 2000 to 2003 she was the government of six, so I believe that you don't think then and that 3.5 years were done stupidity in Croatian agriculture. I have made it very clear and loud and related to this law that it is the result of what we have negotiated and a little review of the Parliament's past assembly so you will see both SDP and HNS talk about these negotiations with the European Union. They weren't praises, they were fierce attacks. And you are now defending this law that is the product of this negotiation as something of high value. Then even this Article 30, where we should have already had a rural development programme so that we could withdraw funds from the European Union, and only now will the Government determine it under this law. As for Mr. Minister, there is no one against Tihomir Jakovina as a man, but as a minister and the work and results of this ministry has a great deal to do with it. It is primarily those 2.25 billion kuna less for Croatian agriculture, and you are now defending it as you can and as you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42870	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42871	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Vinkovic, as regards the results between 2000 and 2003, I am not in the assessment of the success or the call, I was speaking generally of that, it is evident by the results and by this situation that we are actually discussing today instead of this law. There was not enough good agricultural policy and no need to run to it. Is this participation of the then government 5%, 10, 15, 20, I don't know, the last government 30, I'm not a relevant reference expert to make exact estimates. As far as the negotiations are concerned, I personally participated in Chapter 13 in which we have indeed negotiated and thanks to the fact that we have managed to fight to have us fishermen sit in the working group, otherwise she negotiated politics. And I would comment that maybe even more at certain times she was cheating than she was negotiating, but that's my personal opinion. The people who sat in other chapters know the truth, and let them say so, let them judge. I don't take my right to assess their work. Maybe they did the job the best they could, maybe they did the job the best they could. And as for putting together a symphony, I'm sorry, I'll be free to estimate that it would be better if we stayed in conversation, to plan for music.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42872	Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42873	Dear Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, you were quite clear in your debate, but the point was missing and the matter became even clearer. Namely, when you were talking about mother and diet and those 100 kunas, or 50 kunas, you should have just said that the mother told the diet that Croatia had been stolen from and that it was known who it was stolen from. It was a detail for all the Croatian public to be pointed out. On the other hand, it might be good if in the debate you mentioned that in about 7500 days, nearly 8,000 days Croatian agriculture was managed by HDZ and HSS, no one else. So the problems in the Republic of Croatia in the agriculture sector have not arisen since the moment my colleague Jakovina took over the sector. So I repeat, someone's in his debate, and I think you just said that the debate should be open, honest, reasoned. So, speaking of 7500 days or 8,000 days of arguments, the Croatian agriculture sector is managed by HDZ and HSS, and that is a notorious fact. On the other hand, billions are given to agriculture, that's right in these 22, 23 years, billions. And we come to the fact that, within the European Union, we enter unprepared, especially Croatian agricultural producers. You have the best example of Croatian and Slovenian farms, compare Croatian farmers with Slovenian farmers. Slovenian farmers entered the European Union much better prepared than Croatian. So these problems that all the time the story didn't come up from two years ago. They are the result of a systematic poor agricultural strategy that has been manifested recently as a result of the 20-year management of agriculture by the HDZ and the HSS, that is, the fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42874	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42875	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I don't know if you've noticed but I've submitted my application for the debate later, thinking at all that since the nature of this law is technical and coordination not to report in the debate at all. And I do not take myself as the right to judge any individual responsibility for the situation in which Croatian agriculture is. What we would really like to do is to start when agriculture is about dealing with the debates they aim to find a solution because the solution will certainly not be just in that part of the financial port that our farmers have upon their entry into the EU. The solution to Croatian agriculture lies in response to the question of whether we can take the policy business seriously enough, policy making and so on agricultural policies. Given the discussions we've had on this subject so far, I don't think we've passed that exam yet. I will give only one example in the debate on the Law on Agricultural Land does not matter that there is an intensity that agricultural land in respectable numbers is put into operation but we are discussing whether there are a million hectares of whether there are 800 thousand hectares or there are 300 thousand hectares as if the difference between eating in the weeds of 800 thousand hectares or 400 thousand hectares. And I underestimate the intention of Minister Jakovina and his men to put these resources into operation. That's the problem. The problem is that here we use debates in this House to go to a completely different topic, to populism politically and what we are leaving from reality to political estrada. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42876	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42877	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Baranovic, I rarely heard such laudes one of the ministers especially the minister of agriculture from another club. You'd really imagine whether we're all in the same country or not living on the same day. It was all about MiGs and roads and bridges and museums, etc. But that basic premise comes down to one thing, and that marks every debate you have. To all of you who are now an opposition to you, and to us who rule us five, we are perfect, excellent, we do all we can and know. You have no right to say what you want or what you think, you have no right to warn. Where did you get that? But if I didn't remember Peter Baranovic who wasn't always a parliamentary representative, he was also a fisherman, so he was also in some Fisherman's Cehu. When I remember those demands to the Minister of Agriculture at the time, they often bordered on what you're challenging today and the real opposition to say or ask,...more why not. But we forgot that doesn't count. Then there's a lesson in behavior and it's been said all the time, so there's nothing overnight. So how long has it been at night for the Republic of Croatia? A year and a half. Will it take the whole term? How long that night will take, then tell the voters, that it will take a full term. There's nothing you can do overnight, and then there's nothing you can do about it. There's finally a minister who'll put everything together that hasn't worked out in 20 years. We hear from the other side of the man who was a little bit and nervous he lost the battle for the mayor and everyone stole something. Well, then let the party shut down those who stole if that's the way it works. What are we waiting for? What's the problem? You're giving yourself away a little of that political aesthetration, so be realistic. So you can't start every debate with that history starting with us. Well, we heard that today at the Nature Protection Act. Always from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42878	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42879	Madam Vice President. I'm not going to deal with this history. I'm going to respond to a piece of your replica. Yes, well remember, except for the details, I wasn't in charge, it's a particular topic that came out specifically in one debate and I wasn't like him, I was president of the Croatian Fisher Union. My demands have always been harsh, rhetoric harsh, especially when it comes to the ZERP, for which our permanent policy has turned us away. Now we're done with the 1.7. .../The speaker speaks Italian./... the EU's common fishing sea. But we always agreed. And never at that time except for a peaceful protest that didn't interfere with anyone, did we block the ports or make a mess, but we agreed within the limits of possible. It's true. We've been working it out as far as possible, and we've had results. I guess we had some good negotiators. And as for the minister, I think it's just a man who's taken on himself a very ungrateful task and doesn't have to be the subject of very often unargumented tampering. And as for your exposure, I repeat, I do not take it as my right to defend anyone, nor do I have the opportunity, nor am I raised like that. My convictions about democracy are that I can express my opinion and make a recommendation, and it is your right to, even at the next points, each MP based on his own criteria of conscience on his worldly horizons and arguments, not to think that I am not a supporter of totalitarianism but rather the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42880	And Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42881	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Baranovic, listening to your argument, actually asked me to answer the line. You've been trying to convince us that in 6 children you can put a liter, and that's a possibility that the same thing with 2 billion and 200, 300 can be done with 3 billion and 900, that's your logic. Just like, I listened to the story, not three billion and 900 two or three years ago, it wasn't enough for agriculture from the same ones who today assure us that 2 billion and 200 are the same story, not 2 billion and 800 were not enough for Croatian railways, and today Croatian railways can be with a billion and 200. So these are facts that you can't escape from. And anyone who does anything wicked has a name and a last name. And therefore, there is an institution of this state, if anyone has misused support, my God, let them return because it will happen to us from 1. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 7 / 1, 7 / 1 7. who does not use the support legally will have to return them. If not in a year, in two, three, four, somebody's gonna catch him. And I think that in this context we should have discussed and these support should have been in the context of what we will tomorrow and whether we will be able to pull something out of the European Union tomorrow. And whether those who stood three or four years ago behind the peasant protest when even Kuna 40 wasn't enough for a kilo of wheat, now suddenly it's not a dispute, it's a matter of the market. The same story, raising the VAT to 23% was a hack, it was a horror, today at 25% is something that's completely justified. It's just that there are problems that are who they are. Everyone's trying to solve them the best way possible. And I don't think that there should be, personally Mr. Jakovina no one attacks, attacks an institution, doesn't actually attack but talks about whether or not the minister as a minister has done something. And I think in this House we should discuss it that way. The worst thing would be if I were to attack Mr. Jakovina and Mr. Jacobina would attack me. That would be the worst thing. And that's something that's beneath the dignity of this High House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42882	Thank you. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42883	Well, here's to start with, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This replica was at the level just as a parliamentary representative wishes at this assembly. A fellow Shuker gave his opinion to draw certain conclusions that suggest reflection. And what I'm going to say in response or comment final is that it would be good to deal with the present time and future. Because we're too serious a subject and serious debate for that reason was my coming forward today after a pay phone so intonated. We've had too many very serious discussions, very serious topics burdened us with the bickering of historical character, very often at a very low level. And I hope some colleagues don't find it called for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42884	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42885	Honorable vice president, distinguished minister with a co-worker. Well, often our exposure to someone seems especially when we speak critically as a doctor. I did not take any of the statements here as a doctor but as a statement of my own opinion but that the debate is good and that good lead shows that Mr. Boric also raised his voice. So the debate is going in the right direction. I agree fully with Mr Baranovic, who said that in the debates we should seek to find a solution. But we can't find a solution if we don't know the causes of the current bad situation in agriculture. So we need to run some tests. And it's up to us to analyze and say what, which we came to, which is why. I don't agree with Mr. Shucker, who said, expressed his opinion that the incentives, he correctly presented the data, and based on that data, they fell from 3.9 billion to 2,200, so that they can't be made from 3.9 and 2,200, maybe they can't be built by the house, they can't be made by the same number of bricks. I'm going to tell you some other information now. Among those dealing with agriculture there are fewer than 100 farmers, there are fewer with high professional equipment not even one farmer, with high and higher professional equipment. World data proves that one year of education in agriculture productivity rises by 9%. Let's talk about it. Let's talk about the fish, not the fish, but learn how to fish. And we just, we thought we'd solve with incentives. I'm not saying that all criminals, that they were all stealing, that they were, that they weren't all. But we taught people to receive without giving results. If the results are so famous, why are we importing 45% of the food? A gentleman whose name I'm not going to mention because he's going to say, because you're going to say that I'm provoking, he said let's move on, and then we're going further and we're going towards the break-in. And now this rock has started to slide downhill and it's very hard to stop it. And certainly Mr. Jakovina can't do it alone, to do Sisif's work but he didn't find a solution because he didn't seek analysis and we didn't get the right agricultural strategy. So that we can even talk about the prodigy, then we need to know what we want. We're talking about it, my colleague Vinkovic was talking about 45th, so his colleague Baranovic resented him for what he was talking about 45th year. I'd be back a little before the 90s, not the 45th when he said when the ceilings were grinding. When this agricultural production at that time as usual to tell people, I say it under the quotes of the dark we were only sufficient in agricultural production. We need to analyze how much encouragement we gave back then, how we produced it then, and how that time, as colleagues of the twilight say, when it was very difficult for peasants and craftsmen, I remember your debate when we talked about craftsmen when they lived better, they felt better. So we need an analysis. There's a strategy missing. First analysis, to make a strategy based on analysis. We are God-given land, but we are an abandoned land, in a literal and transmitted sense. We literally have too many hectares of unprocessing surfaces and all governments fear that it will simply penalize, and there is no courage to have that country, that those who do not process that country to be penalized, that is, punish or take away. One of the most important things that agriculture needs is education, like I said before. Without educated manufacturers, how do you think someone can produce anything if they don't follow the world's trends, if they don't follow the legality of the market, if they don't follow what they need, at what time they work in agriculture. There's an anecdote, I think I talked to her once I don't know if I was talking here, when Stalin ordered the wheat to be sown and then they realized literally that we needed to sow wheat at the time, so they all lit up, even in the snow of two metres. We often act... Yeah, well, we often act so that we don't educate people, we don't give them enough knowledge. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It reminds me more of Mr. Vinkovic's entry into Europe, and especially when we're talking about this law of support for agriculture and rural development, of a train without a timetable, we're going almost to the unknown. Not those who negotiated, they know where we're going but I speak now for those who don't know, and most people don't know, and most peasants don't know, because that's exactly what the expert is saying to those who deal with agriculture, and the Ministry is the one that should have given tools in the hands of peasants, farmers. This was supposed to be an obligation to receive support, to educate, not just to give, not to ask, not to ask about the harvest, not to ask if it is possible to use that money that is taxpayers' money, all of us, all of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When we look for answers to the questions raised here, we need to ask ourselves whether we want domestic production at all or not. It has already become a mantra to talk about blue, green Croatia, but it is not mantra, come to one store, into a large chain of commerce, see what is sold in these trade chains, then go to some shopping chain that is outside of Croatia in other countries, and see how their goods of domestic producers are served by the shelves, as is our place. The other day I was buying toast bread, you know what a toast kind of bread is, and I asked it to be domestic, and I found twice as cheap as the usual one I bought the label of a domestic producer, and then I said since I recognized it was just a package, what are they doing? These importers, I won't name them because they're all the same, whether it's the owner of Croatia or abroad, that toast is made in Italy, domestically they don't want it anymore, our factories will fail, why, because 50% is cheaper. It's not true that we can't protect it, we can. We can protect, as we can protect, someone here at the SDP club last spoke to me about how you can protect that private doesn't fire workers. It can be protected, countries protect workers in various ways. Thus, this domestic agricultural production can be protected. I wonder when we enter the European Union if we will treat European Union goods with domestic goods as we treat the Law on HRT with domestic languages, which is absurd. No other country does that, but we do it because we're bigger popes than the pope himself. So this law that they say, we Labourists will support it, this law, harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, but we need to talk here in the Parliament about the essence of the problem not because we're going to transfer to someone's guilt, but because of that, we're going to analyse and see what was wrong so that we can do this bad situation today, which is the fact that less and less food is being produced, that more and more peasants are falling, that we have more and more abandoned countries, and that the country is God's day, how to correct it. What to do, what to make the Ministry of Agriculture finally make agriculture meaningful, to start producing, not to eat bad food like we eat bad food, that the owners of the trade chains don't place their labels up on bad food when we can produce 10 times better in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42886	We're moving on to replicas. Damir Rimac, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42887	Dear colleague, so you've said a few very large facts, but allow me to renew them. So it's true that one year of education even up to 10% increases production and I think it's necessary to emphasize it several times that people realize how serious it is. But I will ask the following question, which was done by professional advisory services during the previous 20-year period, and why this farmer, or Croatian producer, is not educated if there is no formal education. It is therefore known that veterinarians, medics, a variety of professional staff must attend certain educations, professional seminars, and that is the case with the exception of Croatian producers. It doesn't matter to them. So I ask why this Croatian producer didn't learn anything. A very small number of manufacturers have technological knowledge and experience. So I'm going to think of a factal situation from some not long ago, which is that somewhere around 2000 in Croatia from the Ministry of Agriculture, there was a suggestion and suggestion that small farmers and small producers leave the simentar and turn to Holstein as high milk cattle that would earn more income per capita. However, they forgot to say that it is actually Ferrari or Mercedes and that not everyone can manage that car or hold that cattle because there is not enough knowledge or technological experience. And what happened now is that after ten, fifteen years, we have the fact that a large number of farmers who have Holstein cattle collapsed. This was well-detectable that education should have been conditioned to get incentives and I absolutely agree with that, but I cannot agree with your fact, with your question or finding why it is not possible to protect that producer and the food production. I am afraid, and I suspect that nothing can be protected anymore because we have negotiated everything with the EU, the point on and placed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42888	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42889	An esteemed fellow Roman so that it is very important in everything beware that you give someone money to build a house, give them cement, give him gravel, a scrape and you didn't teach him how to build a house and ruin it all, not because he's mean because he's lazy because he just doesn't know. If this data I got and I got it from people who deal with agriculture if it's correct and I believe it's true that less than 1% with high or higher professional equipment and exactly what you're saying shouldn't just be a formal education, there's a lot of autodicts mean people who teach themselves who want to. But we should've been sure when we were giving someone money, we should've asked him if he knew how to use that money. Whether they would know how to get that money out of production, and then it happened that more and more money was seen by incentives, so you can see the will of governments that used to be giving more and more money, and we have less and less production. In some segments, we don't have what Mrs. twilight said we took a step somewhere, but basically in the global world, we made the production go down. We're importing too much food, and we shouldn't be importing so much food. You said it was impossible to protect. It's possible to protect her. If we put it in there, we'll protect ourselves. If we put all that abandoned land into operation if we're going to produce cheaper food, if we're going to produce better food, if we're going to find markets where we're going to sell what we can't, we can do it. I don't mean laws to protect and ban imports we can't do that, but there's a way that we can do it like other countries do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42890	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42891	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I wanted only to replicate with regard to education. It is very much invested in the education of farmers and indeed existed in the counties but also in the ministry sublegal acts that farmers who did not pass the school mean in sectors exactly what I told you about vineyarding, fruit growing, warfare and others... all of them passed the education, all of them past schools received certified means the certificate have passed. Let's say we have 6 thousand beekeepers in the Republic and here's a colleague of Bilek who I have to say is also one of the initiators of such a legal regulation, so not now, but from before beekeepers have to go to bee school. And that's why beekeepers, for example, are extremely well prepared to join the EU, and they have really passed education. What I'd say is that young people who have high levels of expertise, I think there's even more than 1% of them that maybe this is a little too little of the data that you are now, especially those that are within the organic production. I know of 10 of them in the city of Zagreb, but at least 6 of them have graduated from colleges, and that's what a lot of people end up in agronomic colleges or some biotechnology colleges and start manufacturing. So it is still done in this segment but of course education is very important and, of course, it is good to bind that education and professional prepare for the reality of any payments from agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42892	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42893	I think in this analysis, we're starting with a good thing about this education that's most important. However, it is not only the formal education that we talked about, but the assistance of the institutions that exist in Croatia is also important. I will now read to you what institutions there are for the Committee on Agriculture, the Council for Agricultural Policy at the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Commission for the award of long-term leases on agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Agency for Payment in Agriculture and Rural Development, the Agency for Agricultural Land, the Croatian Agricultural Agency, the Croatian Centre for the Production of Food Villages, the Institute for Agriculture and Tourism, the Agricultural Advisory Service, the Agricultural Institute, the Croatian Food Agency. This is what experts do. Well, our agricultural producers should be the most educated in Europe. I don't know how much I probably didn't even manage to get it all out, I didn't manage to get one part of it out. Because these institutions work? They hire alike or we simply set them up to hire a part of the people. It is absolutely certain that olive growing and vineyarding in viticulture have taken a major step forward, that fruit growing is not, vineyarding and olive growing, and it is certainly seen by the protection of, say, oils, the only thing we are protected is Istrian virgin oil. For a beekeeper, it's a little bit different because I know some cases where pharmaceuticals, where certain beekeepers have been given to catch up with drug addicts who also rob the world in this, when it comes to people, and also rob when it comes to agriculture. So we're very weak here. And here I'm going to tell you what we're very weak at and where we're actually buying what we shouldn't buy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42894	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42895	Thank you very much. Well, I just admire the ease of talking here about negotiations and people who haven't even put up with the negotiations. People who don't even know how painful it is to negotiate because when you look at the European Union budget for agriculture, then you can think of the interests of those from Europe to limit things. So let's not throw things away lightly. The other thing, the Croatian peasant is what some educated, some uneducated are, unfortunately. However, you can educate people as much as you want if you don't give them a material basis to... It's your knowledge it's a waste of money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So just remember until 98, practically the most fertile part of Croatia was occupied. How many Croatian tractors have ended in Serbia, how many breeding flocks have disappeared. All of us today have come practically to the maximum that we could negotiate to join the European Union. And let's not say that everything is black, that everything is bad that everything is catastrophic. Because it's just not like that. If there were mistakes, it was likely that there were abuses. But it's not good for someone to crash into their chests around entering the European Union. Finally, the head of the National Committee for Negotiations was Mrs Pusic of the opposition and everything that was negotiated went there. And I'm just saying, the one who wasn't in Brussels and didn't negotiate, he wasn't in a position to bang his head on the table because he can't help himself because these squeeze you, he can say these things the way he says here. So do you really think that any Croatian negotiator would not negotiate best for Croatia what he could. Maybe some things have forgotten. I'm not gonna say that they're not. But just take an eye on the sugar quota. So look what Serbia did to Croatian sugars last year before it harvested sugar tails. Because there's a great war on my people. It's war. But why? So look at the Polish peasants, so they're not smarter and more educated than the Croatian peasants, but they've got support, they've got a tool to be educated. Let's not talk about the Croatian peasant so ugly in the most difficult times he wore this country on his back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42896	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Vukšić reply. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42897	Mr. Shuker, as you know how to say a little nerve, slow down a little tension, let's not say nerves. First of all, yes, you say we're pretentious to give lessons and I'm the one you've replicated. ... Yeah, and you're replicating me, I don't know who. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First of all, I didn't say it was all black, too much respect for peasants, agricultural producers, in which I often spoke to God here in the Parliament, whose statistics show that if statistics are wrong, then statistics should be changed. But they say the statistical office is doing well. I'm sure everything you've said, all the circumstances and the war, and everything you've told us that's diminished our chances, that it's diminished our agricultural production. But there's also a part of the guilt in both the government and the farmers themselves, as well as us who do everything in our lives wrong. And now it's very important to analyze what's important to fix it. That's what I was talking about. I don't think it's a dead end at all, that we don't have a chance. But I'm just going to say that no association when it comes to us was happy for us. Not a single merger. We were always happy when we parted, happier than we teamed up. And I'm not one of those people who thinks that we're in the European Union so we can be, that someone's doing a lot better for us. If we don't make it better ourselves and we don't change ourselves, Europe won't help us. So Europe is just one asset, one tool. And we have to change ourselves. Because don't forget that the European Union is created as will the common market of the European Union of the United States at the concept of neoliberal capitalism. And all we're going to get are crumbs relative to what's going to end up with those 10 people who are going to raise profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42898	And colleague of Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42899	Thank you very much. You mentioned a colleague, Vuksic, among other things, in your discussion of the abuse of incentives, and this prompted me again to our favorite topic of mutual condemnation. Of course I think and I'm sure, and such information is that a huge number of Croatian farmers have been used honorably in every and every last bit of encouragement. However, there were also those who misused it in a way, such as that of courts. So I personally saw the verdict once, but what I'm talking about today is one of the leaders of some peasant associations, so the man to whom the verdict says he has abused the budget, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So the money from the incentives that was received from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and nothing to anyone. So he was still and he was here at the time when I ran the government one of the leaders and today he is. So we need to discuss this in every context. But I agree with the part where you mentioned it, and I think the predecessors were talking about the concept. The fact that we have, in recent years we have certainly invested huge money in agriculture in the beginning of the operation of the Croatian state. But the result we have today is that everyone is unhappy. The peasants are dissatisfied, the government is dissatisfied, we are dissatisfied in the Parliament. But most importantly, many consumers are also dissatisfied. So let's import for example. And garlic, etc., will never be clear to me why we can't export garlic and not import garlic. In 2009 we spoke in the government with producers among others and vegetables who in the summer of 2009 were pomegranates, tomatoes, cucumbers, meaning vegetables because they could not sell them on the Croatian market, and during that time we imported peppers, cucumbers and many other vegetables and fruits and, of course, paid significantly more expensive. But the fact that something that was produced in Croatia is going down because it can't be sold is that we have to work on what you mentioned, which is the concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42900	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42901	Dear fellow Kosor, here I am going to start at the end of your line, which is why you said you couldn't understand why we're importing garlic and it's much worse, Chinese garlic than our garlic. We import leaves, you will not believe. Look at what we import and what we export from agricultural products, straw, humus, we import. Why, because of a strong import lobby. They're strong. And it's not true that it can't be arranged in a way that peasants don't need to plow paprika, that no peasants need to plow, they can't even sell apples to make juice, so then they sell it, I know međimurski, some of them I was, they export it to Slovenia because they can't sell it to us. Therefore, we are still an unsettled market, we are materially treating our producers, and that is precisely the task of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture, all of these agencies and institutions that I have listed, which are unknown to the purpose, and perhaps they are not working, and after that, the Minister of Agriculture will explain to us what their function is in all this. And I totally agree with this finding of yours, but I'll remind you, a few months ago, I was here the same time we discussed one agricultural topic, and then I won't mention it to me because of the context, and because I don't want to be a general after the battle, a gentleman on this left was thrown away at a time when he confessed to crime and when he was already investigated, that's what you said. Yeah, the conviction was supposed to come out of these lines, the conviction should, we need to convict the people ourselves, the social missing. And when we allow Parliamentarians to continue to act even though they have confessed to crime how can we expect them to be lower in social ones, I will not say layers and among people who are not in positions that are happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42902	Thank you very much. Final 5 minutes on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42903	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here are these final 5 minutes I will first of all point to the problem in agriculture and find that this law is practically a product of what we negotiated, but not a complete product, but a incomplete, non-final product. Because practically here colleagues have spoken there is one Agriculture Strategy from 2000 which has not changed in these last 13 years and has obviously matured to change this strategy because it is still valid for this Assembly and for the Government, but unfortunately more than that strategy is not in force because we have changed a series of laws relating to agriculture and is one of them and the Agricultural Land Act. So at this point, we have no strategy or programmes, and there are programmes available to agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia that many units of local self-government have brought on the basis of this strategy, and based on these programmes, many family farms, legal and natural persons have raised incentives and that we should not have changed the laws on the basis of exceptions in certain rules because someone abused these support, which the competent institutions did not do their job, from agricultural inspectors, a series of these agencies, here is what the colleague listed, etc., etc. But the fact is also that here all this time we have a problem, so a country that is so popularly said can feed half of Europe, that we have this whole time since the '90s and beyond, that we have a problem, that we have smaller exports of agricultural products, and we have larger imports of agricultural products. And it's clear to me that we're importing bananas because obviously in Slavonia bananas they can't unless they're genetically modified and they're climate-adjusted in Slavonia, we can't produce them. But here's a colleague said, and that's what I've said over and over again, to import both leaves and straw, to import a series of products for which we really don't see justification and that we have practically more imports than exports of agricultural products. I don't know what we're importing from Brazil, I don't know what we're importing from Germany, but obviously we're importing agricultural products that are produced here, for which family economies can't find a market, whether they get support under this law or someone else's. But that's a fact and the fact is that the situation in agriculture is not fairytale and that no speech with a lot of passion, with a lot of emotions can fix it because we have 20 family economies that are shutting down every day. And to conclude that this situation is not an attack on the minister as a man but an attack on one policy of inaction, that is, doing bad things to Croatian agriculture. Let's remember that milk spill, remember the role of the ministry that refused to side with Croatian producers, rather than care about the part of the processors. Let's remember all the protests that were justified, let's also remember the price of agricultural products, and let's remember in 2009, and it's not clear to me that one Prime Minister couldn't know that agricultural products are being stocked, that these agricultural products in Croatia don't have a market in Croatia. Then they should have done something. Here's to the end of my colleague Baranovic. He's not a white man. He's just a little bit of a wake-up call. He's asking a guy like that who hit him with a hack what we're gonna do with ZAMP. There's another man from this government, and your head, the law protects copyright. Just put it together as much as you want, 'cause your music is the best. Thank you. If you're interested, there's more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42904	colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42905	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Vinkovic's, so I didn't say I didn't know. I just said in the context of the debate and colleagues of Vuksic but also some before that, that obviously something must be considered in the concept that we are changing something. 'Cause it doesn't make sense that we've been plowing peppers, and on the other hand, we've been importing it to someone else, and we've been buying it expensively. So that's what I'm talking about. And you didn't think I was supposed to sell peppers and tomatoes or pickles at the time. So, it doesn't. I was talking about what the government was trying to do back then. You mentioned, however, that's not why I answered, but you mentioned the negotiators and what we negotiated. I think we've negotiated well. The speeches in the area of agriculture were among the most absolutely difficult. It was one of the most difficult chapters, and I'm sure we had the most competent negotiators who did a great job, and the traps were landing, I'd say almost daily. Here are some other colleagues who were then either in the government or in the ruling coalition. Let's say, but I'm sure my colleague Baranovic knows something about it, of course he knows about the so-called so-called. So the blue boxes are tied to fishing and problems that at one point seemed almost insolvent. So we did a lot of good work and, as already said, everything went through the National Council, the National Committee in the Croatian Parliament. So all the political options were addressed and supported. So, I think that this milk spill problem, look at it from Brussels to, recently, in France, too, means I've talked to the same milk producers, the same problems that we're talking about today with the dairy producers in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42906	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42907	I'll start right now, I didn't think you were supposed to sell peppers, tomatoes, tomatoes, onions, garlic, garlic, red onions than you were supposed to do as Prime Minister and she was supposed to make Croatian products be on the Croatian market, that they don't get wet, that they can't, for example, sell apples, that we don't have ULO coolers like we don't have them right now. But look, it was 2009. It's 2013. It's the same condition. Today the producer in the fall won't have to sell an apple again, and at this point we have Italian, Spanish, Egyptian, we have young potatoes from Egypt. Well, I was wearing that bag. Well, that was interesting then. Now it's no longer interesting, because today we have an extraordinary ministry that has improved the state of agriculture that roses bloom instead of and no potato gold on potatoes etc. etc. Well, that's not the condition. That's what I'm talking about. The situation in agriculture is catastrophic. Every day we lose jobs in agriculture, every day 20 family farms are put out. And that's a problem this ministry doesn't know how to answer. But as far as the negotiations are concerned, I agree it was a good negotiation. If the grades were one to five, but it wasn't a great deal to negotiate. It's a good passing grade. But the thing is, first of all, we need to understand the seriousness of the situation, and we need to understand that in this process and the problem, we need to involve units of local self-government, but only when fiscal decentralisation is carried out. Because the problem is not solved in Zagreb, but in all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42908	The final word of the Minister of Agriculture Tihomira Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42909	I thank the esteemed vice president. Yeah, well, it says 30 minutes up there. But given what the debate on the law itself was, and we are talking for almost two and a half hours, we are discussing in this House of Commons a law that is in line with EU legislation and which, in my opinion, could have had an intrinsic debate and in a completely different tone. At first, I was actually thinking about not answering the final word at all or just saying thank the clubs who said they would support the law that we must normally pass because compliance and everything that has been well done in the negotiation process, but also in these last year and a half days in compliance with the legislation in some way with this law has been defined. However, in the end, I decided not to challenge a new avalanche avalanche, as counterpart Baranovic says, although there will probably be, nor would he consider the presentation of counterpart Baranovic on behalf of the club to defend me. I don't need to be defended. The results will show at the end of my term if my team and I were doing well. But I need to look back at some of the things that are said here, which are total untruth and tampering. My colleague Vinkovic is talking about the voice of passion and emotion. I'd say what you said or most of what you said is actually a speech of only advertising, a speech of demagogy, a speech of pulsism. Or when you talk about numbers, you really talk about numbers. If you're pulling out a budget in 2012 and you're talking about 2.25 billion kuna less for agriculture, you're talking about the whole budget not at that amount, but you forgot to say that we then raised projects in the water economy from a billion 125 million to almost 2 billion and 400 million because we had these funds in a consolidated budget of Croatian Waters. That's what you forgot to say. You're saying a number of things that don't really stand. About both support and land reform and everything. You input me personally in a very incorrect way because first of all we are colleagues, and I have an election mandate in this House and if I were not in Croatia, I would be sitting here with you, not working and destroying Croatian agriculture. I don't think that's correct, and if you're already calling for an article or an interview in some newspapers, and you know how the media gets what you say sometimes, you need to take care of everything or most of it, and not partially extract just certain sentences that then speak very wrongly about what it is. We said that in a year and a half, and I'm not a minister and I'm not running this very complex and responsible ministry for 18 months, we've done a lot. You still can't see all the results and we haven't stopped all the negative trends but we slowed them down. You're saying land reform and the Agricultural Land Act is wrong, that nothing was done, and you haven't looked at it, you haven't even asked for data. If almost 50 thousand and 300 hectares were put into operation in the last few months alone, or 2920 agricultural users were given the option of temporary availability for the first time in five years of valid contracts on the basis of which support can be declared and to work safely for the next 5 years, and to expect a tender for that same land. That's what you didn't say. In 10 years we've made 262,000 acres, in these few months we've already consumed this part through the new law and made it. The way and implementation of the law itself, i.e. the economic programme, you've had a tremendous amount of larma in the discussion of the law itself. Now that it's been brought to the government, when it's shown that it protects both domestic agricultural producers and active farmers and the domestic population and the OPG, you're not going to say a single word. It's demagogy, it's politics and it would be clear to me that this law 20 days ago when there were local elections, now other than personal impatience towards me as a member of the government, I see nothing else. And if we're going to talk about the responsibility and destruction of Croatian agriculture, you're the mayor of Đakov for a long time, and as a rule, according to your relationship with Đakovska ergeli, you've almost destroyed both pride and brand and your work, as well as Slavonia, and all of Croatia. ... You know exactly what I'm talking about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When you talk further about the data in the budget, about the amounts, we have less resources at our disposal both in accordance with both the plan and the way in which these support is handled. But you also know that last year we had a payoff in 2012 for '11. and in previous years almost 3 billion and 10 million kuna. That this year, for the first time in 15.05, we paid agricultural producers nearly 2 billion and 200 million kuna. If we hadn't gone to the closure of our commitments, that is, we'd given the possibility of reprogramming our debt to taxpayers to facilitate their agricultural production and survival on this part. I take responsibility for myself and my team for everything we haven't done right. Who's doing this and making mistakes. We'll keep working, so if there's any mistake, then I'll take responsibility for it. I will not take responsibility for everything that has been wronged for 20 years because I have neither created nor run Croatian agricultural policy all the time. When you talk about how we prepare or don't prepare, or what we know or don't know, it would be convenient for you to read the explanation in this law, so you would understand what's going on with the rural development program. Why wasn't the government brought in so far? Because the EU's joint reform package on this issue has not yet been adopted, so we cannot fly out with a strategic document that will not be in line with the whole reform package that will be worth 2014-2020. For months the scientific community and the public and agricultural producers, the widest circle of possible and consumables and interests and the food and processing industry has been included in the development of this document, the most important strategic document by which we will withdraw significant funds from the second stage of rural development. You know all that, but you didn't brag, and I don't expect you to praise this government and me personally, but it's a component of Plan 21 we're having. And make sure that on your speech or your instructions that I'm going to resign I'm not going to do that. About how good a minister I am, how well my team and I are doing, will be judged by citizens in the next election. Not how you're a populist colleague of Vinkovic's. Thank you to all those who have supported this law. EU harmonisation, I think we made it in accordance with what has been drawn and negotiated, and we predicted all the things we said and specific payments and transitional periods and everything else. And I agree with all those who were constructively and reasoned in the debate involved that the whole system should be much better. 2700 people are in my ministry and agencies. Once we can run an analysis and say so we... colleagues 7, 8 or 9 have six agencies working. Is that too many numbers? Maybe so. My team and the team count the 15 people I came with. These are people who have been and worked in ministries and agencies before. I'm trying to make them as good as possible, as good as possible and as close to the users themselves, and I think you can see the difference now in the way they work. I'm not satisfied enough either. We must all work hard, but ultimately there will be a state apparatus, i.e. all services and institutions and agencies should be a quality service to agricultural producers who also have to work very hard on themselves and on their own OPGs, on their productions, because today agriculture is no longer a tradition, not a history, it's not a culture, it's business, it's entrepreneurship and our agricultural producers have to be aware, there must be partners in us who are both the system and in you who are passing laws in this House. And while I run the ministry and my team, we're gonna do everything we can to make your results as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42910	Thank you very much. And before I give my colleague Vinkovic an injury to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to say that we are a lot of toleraters here and in the sense that every man has his own style but really shouldn't go personally. They were personal qualifications and the minister, so in that sense he was responsible. I think we should stay away from that. Here's a colleague of Vinkovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42911	See Article 213 is injured and you should... mentioned the minister in some personal relationship nor is there any kind of personal impatience towards the minister. And the allegations mentioned here by the minister are complete lies. So you'd like him to explain to me what's wrong with the national bachelor? Maybe you should ask the former Prime Minister who fought for the ergel. You certainly didn't. Just so much for the ergel. And you can help bring water to Ivandvor, and don't forget that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42912	Let me decide whether or not to warn someone, and you, if you are not satisfied, know what you must do by the Rules of Procedure. Now, here's your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42913	So no personal impatience, Mr. Secretary. All this stuff you said I would ask the Assembly to deliver it to me on one CD, so I will play it all over Croatia to all the OPGs and they will enjoy these praises that in Croatian agriculture all is well in these last year and a half days. The numbers don't matter. Croatian agriculture is on the extremity not thanks to Vinkovic but thanks to you and you must be aware of that. And I don't tie any of them to personal impatience, absolutely not. And as for the State Ergel of Lips, the caste to me as mayor that it's my fault, for losing a brand, for what. And had it not been for Vinkovic and the citizens of the city of Djakov to give them special thanks, to them. And as for the not giving of that incentive certificate, don't expect a mayor to give without the guidance of the minister to the newly created company, he would commit a crime based in Lipik, without conducting a public tender. So read the laws of that time and you will see that the mayor could not give Croatian Horseman's Centre based in Lipik a confirmation of the use of land in Djakov. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42914	The reply to the replica of Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42915	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm not going to continue the argument about the ergel. You know very well how you've helped all the ergell works that are actually a brand of your city and how much you've denied them funds and for support, renting land and everything but we're not going to get into it. You've spoken and you've actually given me an additional opportunity to look back on what you said that units of local and regional self-government are unable to support. All over Croatia, we have examples of counties, examples of cities and municipalities doing very well. This is for those local leaders who are not good enough quality, transparent and well equipped with their budgets that are not so small, but I will tell you and I am talking about units of local self-government that are in the continental part of Croatia of your neighbouring county and not further, we will not go any further because they are above average. And when we talk about the budgets of support and others, tens of billions of kunas have been spent back ten years in agriculture. Unfortunately, we neither produce better, nor cheaper, nor more competitive, nor more quality. We're all in trouble, and I'm not saying thank you to this way. I'm saying that we're running and we're working in rather complex conditions and we're doing our best to fix it. During the night, we cannot and I would be the happiest if I were a minister now and if we had all our agricultural producers, all of the OPGs, crafts and businesses in the food processing sector fully prepared and that we are entering the EU, unfortunately not. Did I have to do it and do it in 16 or 8 months all of what we haven't done all these years? I don't think we could have done that. We've done our best and we've been doing our best every day, me and my associates, and I'm sure all those active farmers who are already very good at organising production in their family economies will help them use and withdraw funds from funds and improve their production.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42916	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42917	Final proposal of the Act on support for agriculture and rural development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 396. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is anyone restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that 100 votes unanimously for the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act are in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42918	We will now discuss - Final proposal of the Law on protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications and guaranteed by traditional specialties of agricultural and food products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 407 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the proposal, Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina will explain. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42919	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ladies of Parliament's attorneys and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys. The final proposal for this law creates a general legislative framework in the area of the protection of the designation of origin, the protection of the geographical indication and the traditional speciality of agricultural food products guaranteed. The benefits of such protected products are protection against the abuse and violation of the reputation of the original product, a guarantee for recognizable quality, a higher product price, or an increase in the income of the manufacturer, a contribution to rural development through product visibility and the region itself. The law defines the Ministry of Agriculture as the competent authority for the implementation of Regulation No. 1151/2012, procedure for the protection of designations of origin, geographical indication and traditional specialities guaranteed at the level of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The establishment of the Commission for the Implementation of the Protection Procedure shall be the designation of the designation of the designation of origin, of the geographical origin and of the traditional speciality of the agricultural and food products guaranteed. Authorisation of control bodies carrying out professional control of protected markings. Jurisdiction with regard to administrative oversight and official controls and infringement provisions in the event of infringement of this Act. Currently, 12 marked products are protected in the Republic of Croatia, of which 4 have designations of origin, i.e. Istrian prosciutto, varazdinal cabbage, ogulinic acid cabbage or ogulinic acid cabbage, and extra virgin olive oil Cres. 8 of them are protected with geographical indications, it is a Polish soparnik, the meat of Zagorje turkey, potatoes, karst prosciutto, držajski prosciutto, Dalmatian prosciutto, Baranja kulena and viritite paprika. And there are several products in the national protection process. It is Dalmatian maraska, or Dalmatian maraška, Neretva mandarina, Istrian extra virgin olive oil, meat from the table, međimurje bučino oil and Slavonian tower, i.e. Slavonian cuisine. At the level of the European Union in the negotiations phase of 1 June 2013, the Istrian prosciutto for the designation of originality at the EU level is held. The documentation for the Varazdin will is in the preparation phase. And the realisation of sending to registration at European Union level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42920	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the Clubs' turn. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42921	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, this may be the point of a little nicer conversation than these previous two, but I am sure that this point gives the guarantee to Croatia that with the protected original products it will be recognizable in the Republic of Croatia. As the minister has now said here, I would also like to say that in the Republic of Croatia there are currently extra virgin olive oil, Cres, ogulinic acid cabbage, varazdinal cabbage, Istrian prosciutto on the list of products bearing the designation of originality. The label is also accompanied by the original paprika, Baranja kulen, Dalmatian prosciutto, drjska prosciutto, karscij prosciutto, lika potatoes, Zagorje turkey meat and Polish soparnik. Of course we would like the product to be far more and I will finally talk about it, mention it, but there are data from the Chamber of Commerce, so just the other day when we had a debate on the Committee on Agriculture it is said that it is not really harmonised between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Chamber of Commerce, but certainly I say we will be satisfied if these protected products are far more than it is today. Of course, I'm particularly concerned here, but here's what's been said, and that's what I got on the board, and that's what the Baranian Tower is mentioned here. But what is very important to me is that I come from Požega-Slavon County from Slavonia, certainly that Slavonic cuisine, therefore not cool, but kitchen, but well whether or not the use of cuisine and tower, will also be a protected product protected by only one manufacturer but by name and last name is Tomislav Galović. And the Organisation of Processors, Meat Processors and Culine Production still haven't done it. But in any case, here it is said that it will be accepted. And it certainly is very important that this original indigenous product also has its protected, protected name. All of those quality labels were based on the Law on designations of origin, geographical indications and on the traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. Under the laws laid down, implementing rules, the law is in accordance with Council Regulation 2005, 2006 and the regulations and rules implemented are partly in line with European rules governing the protection procedure in the field of the Community, the designation of origin. Protection, geographical indication and traditional specialties of agricultural and food products guaranteed. Therefore, this law and the adoption of the regulation lays down a more detailed protection procedure. Procedure for the submission of applications for registration, marking and authorisation of control bodies confirming compliance with the product specification. The law provides producers of indigenous agricultural and food products with the possibility that, after protection in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, a product of protection and at European Union level. Which is why it is important for us to achieve this kind of protection from the economic aspect, looking at this marked product, this branded product, belongs to products that can achieve a higher price, resulting in an increase in the income of the manufacturer. They increase the visibility of products from the area from which they come, lead to development of tourism and contribute to rural development. This is particularly important in the case of products produced in undeveloped areas. The growing trend in demand for indigenous products guaranteeing quality with their label is also an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia and our producers, especially taking into account the diversity of the variety of offers of food products in our regions. I do not think it is necessary to talk about the death of the Croatian village and the need to find a way to revive rural areas. Furthermore, by association of producers with the aim of a joint market appearance, through e.g. clusters, cooperatives, further enhance their position on the market, improve regional traditions and strengthen regional identity of the area. In addition to well-developed plans and providing professional assistance to manufacturers in the registration and follow-up procedures, it is possible to achieve significant steps and raise awareness not only of the manufacturer but also of the users of these products, thereby ensuring visibility but also protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia in this area. The importance of this area has also been recognised by the former HDZ Government, which passed the Law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products during 2008. I would certainly like to say here exactly a few words, not only that the former government recognized what we are talking about today, but certainly everything that it has done in the negotiations so that Croatia will have the best conditions when it joins the EU. I agree that negotiations in any sense are not always possible to be negotiated in a 100% amount or in that best term, but in any case, the Croatian HDZ government has just done something that we are eating here today, which in a few days we will be using in the EU and today's government is just using all those negotiations that are good for the Republic of Croatia. I agree that the situation in the country is in an extremely difficult situation. I am sure that agricultural producers would be far more satisfied if the situation in the country were to be improved in a shorter period of time. But at the same time, I am also sure that our laws that we have passed, and that is, there will certainly be more words at this next point, we have just perhaps, with some restrictive measures, done that we have brought certain agricultural products or rather agricultural producers into an extremely difficult situation. We're wondering if he should have reacted in certain situations? The latter was most obvious in the case of aflat-toxins that really rocked farmers and agricultural production. I'm also talking about those previous laws that were passed, is that how it was supposed to be? They should be far more tolerated to this agricultural producer of ours, who are getting smaller these days. And of course we're all wondering what's going to happen in due course if the agricultural economies are closing at the same time, if the OPGs are missing at the same time? The question of respected colleagues and colleagues arises whether we are going to increase our imports in due course unlike today's? Of course I'm worried about other things. I won't look back here at Mr. Baranovic who shouldn't have encouraged or better said to challenge such an interest in replicas, but neither should he be a lawyer minister, he has his own lawyer to defend him, but in this way he shouldn't. We should all work together with the ministry and the government to help the Croatian peasant in all ways, not to reduce what he had so far or better said to pay him what we promised him. And that is why it is very important and those people who were here a few days ago before the Croatian government they did not come to protest, they came to ask only when and at what time they will get what they are ultimately promised. What I would like to say is a few words, and precisely by adopting this today's Act on Product Origin, I am concerned if this is accurate information, of course I can't argue that, therefore, we are witnessing that here in Zagreb and here in the centre of preparation for a major event, so an event that is extremely important for Croatia, which is preparing Croatia's entry into the EU. Well, here's the minister here, and maybe he'll help with that, too, and I have information that gala dinner with all possible symphony orchestras, but when we're talking about products that are protected and those original products, I have information that there's no Slavonic tower in the offer that's worrying. Here's another indicator, so when we hold the biggest possible event, when we come from distinguished guests, presidents of certain countries, we will not have a Slavonic tower on the menu, which is such a original product, one of the indigenous products with which we are rising around the world and which tomorrow should be one of the products that will be sought not only in Europe but also wider. So here I am praying to all those who are preparing all the things that should be held that night so we don't just forget about the original products, not just the Slavonic cuisine, but all the products we swear to, but at the same time when we need to use them, we either forget them or deliberately abandon them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42922	Thank you. I'm sure the president will serve it for breakfast, because for dinner it's a little too heavy to eat. Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42923	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You were talking about extra virgin oil amongst other oils. One of the few products that Croatia has quite enough, and even for export is olive oil. At the beginning of this year, there seems to be one competition in Omis and the association that organized the policy contest at the store took 7, 8, 10, how many samples of olive oil. The label said extra virgin olive oil. Since these samples were taken to the Public Health Office in Split and only one in ten of these products met the criteria of extra virgin olive oil. Why am I saying that? Since Croatia is entering, meaning 12 days into the EU, so we are coming to one big market and since we already have a lot of olive oil being imported, I think it is necessary indeed, this and Mr. Minister I am also telling them to strengthen the criteria for these individual products with an extra virgin olive oil label because it is obvious that they do not meet these criteria. Extra virgin olive oil at the price of 25.30 kuna in retail, something smells obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42924	Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42925	I agree completely with my colleague. I would also like to point out as well as the Slavonic cuisine, as well as the extra virgin oil that really comes from our midst and that we should not really be ashamed, and on the shelves we can find anything, most of those products that are not originally domestic. And since here is the minister coming from Slavonia, I am sure that he will not forget about this Slavonic product, as he will neither forget the Dalmatian oil that is also known not only in Dalmatia but throughout Europe. And it is precisely that when these distinguished guests come to serve them what is originally ours, and with that all the countries and honors are being raised, they are also offering to those highest-ranking guests or guests who are coming to recognize exactly what is quality, and we certainly have a lot here and what we can admire and we admire, but we certainly need the support of the ministry and of those people who are today acting in certain functions both in the government and in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42926	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42927	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic, you have well mentioned in reality the presentation of our domestic products, or these products, which in some ways already have protection or will receive protection. And it is certain that dinner is a special occasion for the EU to present all our domestic products because we have something to join Europe and indeed all those who, at the time of the tourist seasons and beyond, come to Croatia for a large part and for the food offered and domestic products. However, another problem is, let's say, our embassies and embassies don't have these products either, they don't have which they can also give as gifts or as presentations, and that's, let's say, it would be a good one to present such products. And as for these pattocrats you've answered the question to Mr. Representative Box, it's true. Now there's a control problem, a control problem. And you see, unfortunately Croatia or fortunately had this kind of heavy negotiations not only in this sector of agriculture, but everyone because they looked at us under a microscope and that our extra virgin olive oil would have been marked with originality for at least two years. But then we'll really have the right product on the shelves. And as for the patient, I'm in, and it's always supposed to work so that the inspection does its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42928	Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42929	I fully agree that it is the people who were sent from Croatia to be ambassadors, to be consuls, that they are not only to promote products. They must first of all clearly deal with the economic plan and the development of Croatia, so that they allow Croatian producers to go out in any way in any country or, as you said, if you already need certain gifts for certain people to be gifts that are identical with the original quality label. I hope we're going in one good direction, that just by passing these laws, we're going to protect exactly those products that haven't had the protection of the original label so far, exactly what we're talking about today. I will be very happy and proud to have just that product, and from the middle I come from, so Slavonic cuisine is so recognizable, which is really so recognizable today and on the Croatian market, tomorrow and in European and that everyone enjoys it together. But whoever produces it will also enjoy it because they will have sales, they will have buyers, and I'm sure they can't get into a position to be in certain problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42930	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour Party Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42931	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, although we are talking about another European law, we can say very much that this is a very, very old topic in view of Council Regulation 509 and 510/2006. which speak about the protection of geographical indications and labelling of the origin of agricultural and food products, and we have only adopted implementing rules here last year which are as such only partially in line with the Commission's regulations. However, what I have reported, I would like to take advantage of and say that given what we have done about it so far, Croatia is almost a statistical error when we talk about the originality of the product. For what? Within the EU, 1158 food products are protected by the designation of origin or geographical origin, and another 284 are in the registration procedure. Among them is only one from Croatia and it is an Istrian prosciutto. I took this Istrian prosciutto, for example, to see what it looks like to make regulations and what we are all stumbling about all the time, which is the implementation of these regulations in practice and what Croatian farmers must do to protect something they want to protect and how much, as a rule, the ministry contributes to something being done. In the Istrian hamlets association, which gathers currently 17 producers who each year deliver some 30,000 prosciuttos with impatience waiting for a certificate to arrive from Brussels to protect the originality of their Istrian prosciutto. Thus, the Istrians became the first and only producers in Croatia to prove that such large and demanding projects can be achieved through the community. It has been almost 16 years since the decision to go into protective custody until the EU certificate has been issued. They went into the project in '97. investing in strong energy and substantial financial resources in the meantime. However, the designation of originality at national level which was the first step in the procedure was obtained by Istrian prosciuttos in early 2002. However, in order to comply with European legislation, the registration of originality had to be renewed as such and to move literally over. The new procedure was launched in 2008 and completed in February 2011, only in June 2012 to get the first five manufacturers an official stamp to mark their prosciutto. The requirements and documents for the award of an EU certificate of origin in Brussels were sent in October 2012. So I wanted to share this with you for a simple reason when we decide there are some very, very many obstacles. The first and main obstacle is the lack of information from farmers, i.e. the lack of information about what one of us is asking for and what they as such must do. When I mentioned several agencies before, I would like now to mention the Tax Agency for Agricultural Land, the Agency for Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Croatian Agricultural Agency, Agricultural Advisory Service, Croatian Agricultural Chamber, Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, Croatian Food Agency, Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, and another 21 regional agencies that have been doing business since 2004. I think it is unnecessary to talk about how many of these agencies employ employees and how much we lack the irresponsibility of the minister we really do not at any time call for any personal reason but when we mention these problems and mention them for the reason that from this force of all agencies and centres and all the forces of employees who work in them we try to logistically, organisationally find the best way for certain individuals who are able, who know, to be educated and help this first link not last but the first one, and this is the farmer or any entrepreneur in the Republic who wants to, wants and needs to be realized. So that's the problem we keep pointing to, who we should respect because this is how it turns out that we are some kind of regulation and law factory and that at no time we don't care how many of these laws anyone in the field will manage to read and how many people are able and able to implement them. So what we're asking is for the Ministry's support to be real to the ground because the ministry doesn't make sense unless it meets the needs of all those who deal with agriculture or the economy. In this case, we are talking about the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is normal for the Minister of Agriculture to be responsible for its organisational structure in its own ministry, to be responsible for what and for the actions of its own people, employees as far as they are able to acquire this knowledge in negotiations with Brussels, in negotiations with the EU to bring European regulations into line with Croatian and Croatian legislation and to bring European regulations in line with quality implementation on the ground. Because that's the only reason and the only purpose of every law we bring here. Unless we think about it and make laws just so we can pass laws and let a peasant or anyone else take care of them, we didn't do the job. And that's what we're pointing at, and that's what we want to fix and finally stop with the stories that were made, which is who did who, what anybody was going to do, how much we did or what we wanted to do. We just don't have time. It turns out now that with one single protected product we are entering the EU. I agree with Mr Lucic when he says that we simply cannot present our own products when we join the EU. Not that we don't know, we just don't have the habits to appreciate something that's ours. In all these years, it turns out that we've been doing something partial, that we just can't make it to the end, that we still lack that little energy, little will, little perseverance or little knowledge to finalize the projects we started. It turns out that we're entering Europe as some unknown because maybe someone didn't try to educate those people who are in the field, who are eager to do something because you believe if a farmer knows anything to do then we certainly know how to make a Slavonic tower, we know how to make an Istrian prosciutto, we know how to make a Varvazdin wish and everything we've been trying to make out of olive oil. It is also alarming that we have not protected any Croatian wine, and we boast with new plantations, thousands and thousands of hectares of new wine plantations, which we have managed to protect only olive oil from Cres and we have planted thousands and thousands of olives again in that cost-sharing at 1/3 counties local self-government and farmer. So we're doing something so we don't end up finalizing something and it's not good. These are incentives that have no effect, and don't have any effect because we don't bring any story to an end. A farmer simply doesn't want to, believe me, anyone who deals with the production of olive oil tends to keep his olive oil in storage, to be in retail, to be in restaurants, to be in any world and European competitions, and to see his logo and his name on a bottle of olive oil. However, in order to get there, someone needs help to do so, and I believe that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture or the agencies dealing with it, and especially the minister who is the first man of the ministry to solve logistically and organisationally, these problems that the knowledge of the ministry and experts implements on the ground, whether to the regional development agencies, whether to the municipalities, whether to the cities, whether to the Committee on Agriculture in this local self-government has to decide on their own but I definitely think it is necessary. It's not calling that something isn't done, it's just a request to finally start thinking that problems should be solved with the intention of having results, not just because we say what we think or what we've done so far, and we don't do analysis and we don't measure results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42932	The replica of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42933	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Tyrelli, you have spoken well, but what I want to say about these laws that are concerned, and these are protected marks of originality, geographical indications or traditional terms. The Istrian prosciutto, I didn't hear sorry, so I'm going to say it again, and since '98, there's been an actual registration, and I have to say the cost of costing. It was about a million kunas somewhere. And why is that? It's not in reality so simple that for originality it's a lot of work to do. So the whole control is going, you probably said, growing, slaughtering processing and all that. But there's one good thing about this whole story not only of Istrian ham but of these products that we've brought to national level is that it doesn't defend what we've nationally protected, so we can use it nationally. And the EU has this protection, however, one will have a long process. However, we are young in the whole story, we are all past the truth, but I would say not even with my own guilt because the negotiations began only in 2006, so I think there is one 2.3 year old that still the EU mark of originality or protection will have more than an Istrian prosciutto. It seems to me that extra virgin olive oil is also expected to get that label. But through tourism, we must try to get to know tourists all of our products regardless of the markings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42934	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42935	I thank you for the replica. So here's what I just wanted through this example right now, and I'm giving an example of the Istrian hamlets for a reason to show how complex, long-term, hard, and ultimately expensive work is. However, a vision is important. So if someone in '97 was still thinking about protecting some of their own products in order to design their originality, if the 2008 game had to start over because of the EU legislation, I think it talks enough about it. So what I really wanted to ask today is that these farmers, these visionaries, these people who have vision, the mission, their goal that they want to do something and who are ultimately doing one big, big job for all of us together because they're setting up a brand by which we all become recognizable, so we need to give them the opportunity to do it, we need to help them do it, and on the other hand we place Croatia, we place our products. After all, I think that my colleague Lucic has previously said how much these products achieve and the higher price on the market, as much as they have more opportunities to export, as ultimately all contributes to increasing exports, thereby increasing or improving the state budget. So, my, my, my real initiative is going in that direction to figure out a story, to connect all the entities that have to participate in this business, and to bring the story to an end so that no one leaves it halfway, but that we all get to the finish line together if we have a goal, of course, and if we see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42936	On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42937	Honorable vice president, respected ministers with associates. So I'm going to try to take a brief look at the bill, I'm sorry that my colleague Lucić is gone, so he spoke with this pay phone primarily as Slavonac, mentioning the Slavonic tower, I am a Slavonic originating in Vinkovci but I'm going to talk about the Istrian prosciutto. Because I took part and participated in the selection and creation of this raw material and I know how much they have actually invested their burden and effort in the period from 97 to today. However, let me also mention the 2012 Act on designations of origin, i.e. geographical indications and the traditional look of agricultural and food products, which is in fact an area of quality of agricultural and food products in the Republic of Croatia. This Law is in line with how counterpart Tyrelli also mentioned it by Council Regulation 509/2006. and 510 of 2006 or regulations governing agricultural and food products as traditional specialities guaranteed, i.e. by a Regulation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of agricultural and processing products. Namely, two regulations were also derived from the Law on designations of origin and geographical indications. The Regulation on designations of origin and designations of geographical origin and food products and the Regulation on the designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products which are largely in line with European regulations or regulations and I believe that this will also, in the near future, be defined. What is explained by the new Law or the proposal of the Law is primarily a national sign that represents the visual identity of the protected name of the agricultural or food label. The proposal for a law also provides for the obligation to provide the European Commission with all necessary documentation for the registration of products and at European Union level, following the protection of products in the Republic of Croatia with automation by the Ministry of Agriculture. The law also defines the application procedure, i.e. that procedure for registration of the designation of origin. The geographical indication has also been defined and the protection of traditional specialties of agricultural and food products at the level of the European Union itself has been guaranteed, which has not been the case so far. So, a colleague of Tyrelli, as an Istrian, spoke of the Istrian prosciutto. I will be free so as a Slavonic mentioning a man who was mostly responsible for promoting the Istrian prosciutto who made a huge and own contribution and a huge cost of his working and leisure time that is Mr. Milan Antolovic. Who did a huge job after all. And I think from this position he deserves compliments but also praises from both of us representatives or from the professional public because he really did a top professional job. So the efforts to register the Istrian prosciutto as a originally protected product have been going on there since we were 97. However, the document addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture but similar to that in the translation is also addressed to the European Union. So it's an elaborate that contains a description of the Istrian prosciutto very detailed. Because he's quite different from the braid prosciutto, to the Dalmatian prosciutto for the simple reason why he's peeling his skin. He has it, with Istrian prosciuttos it's specific. A geographical area of production of Istrian prosciutto is also defined in the elaborat. The production process of Istrian prosciutto from technology to raw materials and the association of Istrian prosciutto with the geographical area and production. So when all this is read it seems quite simple but as you all know the registration process lasted several years. Over 10 years. So, when we talk about the designations of origin, the minister mentioned four products in his opening address, so let me look back briefly, too. So it's ogulinic acid cabbage or sour cabbage, extra virgin olive oil from Cres and Istrian prosciutto. But also the fourth product of the barbarian wish that seems to me these days is addressed to Brussels for registration with the European Union. So that's an important piece of information. What is in the process are the following four other products, so meat with pills, Istrian extra virgin olive oil that is closest to this final product, i.e. that process to be, to get the designation of originality, is Dalmatian maraska and, of course, Neretva mandarina. But when we talk about geographical indications, I would refer to one disrepancy, or, one, to one difference. So, we have 8 products that have received a geographical indication so far. It's only two from Slavonia. It's a viritative paprika and a baranian tower. One from Zagorje, it is the meat of Zagorje turkey, one from Like, it is a potato and, behold, the Dalmatians are the most expedient or progressive in protecting the geographical origin of their products, so we have four products. We've got Dalmatian prosciutto, brazijski prosciutto, prunes prosciutto and Polish soparnik. ... If it's normal to throw okay. [[/Speakers earn, you don't understand.]] So, it's not in Dalmatia, but I'm saying that this mentality of people has an entrepreneurial spirit, that was the intensity of the debate. So, what is in the process of obtaining or obtaining a geographical indication is Međimurje's noise oil and the fact is that Slavonic tower or tower is in the process but there should be emphasized that the whole procedure is why the Slavonic tower or tower is not given the geographical indication of origin lies in the fact that previous requests to the Ministry went to the Ministry that raw materials must be exclusively from Slavonia, i.e., not even from Croatia but from Slavonia. And that is actually the biggest problem, especially Europe will not allow because raw materials in this part should not be questionable. But I will ask other rhetorical questions. So, the assumption is that the Slavonic tower or the tower will be protected very quickly, will be marked at least geographically, but what about Slavonic ham? This product has neither initiated a process nor applied the whole story of obtaining and obtaining a geographical indication. What about the Slavonic sausage? If we talk about the Istrians, the Istrians are there in advantage because they are also in the process of protecting their Istrian sausages. Or sausages if you say so. And the third question that's rhetorical, so what about Slavonic bacon? These are all the products to be talked about in this High Croatian House because they have origin, they have tradition, they have end-and-end taste and I hope that some sort of intensity or positive intention will be directed from this place. And as Slavonac, here I am looking at my colleague Vinkovic and he will use his authority to try to protect our Slavonic ham because I believe it can be an al-mari product and Dalmatian prosciutto and karst ham and Istrian for one reason only because it has a completely different production technology. But I don't think it's worse to mention that the Istrians in this are going to say '97. So that's 16 years, let's say 15 years is easier to track, total spent funds which is little due to ignorance at the beginning and wandering 1.7 million kuna. So these are exact indicators. Of which the Ministry of Agriculture participated with nearly 600 thousand kuna, Istrian County with the same 600 thousand kuna, US AIDS therefore an American association with 26 thousand kuna, which is insignificant in this amount itself the Association of Istrian hamlets with 550,000 kuna. These are respectable financial amounts but they have achieved their goal, they have a protected original product. So I appeal to all politicians who have both experience and knowledge and authority to try to protect a lot of Slavonic products. There was a speech, a colleague named Lucic asked if there would be a Slavonic tower at these receptions? They probably won't, but there'll be baranian cuisines. It's gonna be cool, but I think those things should be talked about too. So I'd like to ask four important questions from this place that I can help with the registration process. This is primarily to ensure the lack of financial resources to produce a specification for the labelling of agricultural and food products, i.e. geographical indications to each producer or association, without associations, it will not work. So we saw that Istrian was about 1.7 million kuna in the 15-year period. The assumption is also for other products not that it will need such an amount, but that the amount will be very demanding. Therefore, in order to provide professional and financial support to associations in the protection process which is primarily necessary, how to preserve traditional materials in the production technologies of indigenous products primarily because of compliance with traditional production technologies with relevant legal regulations in both the Republic of Croatia and the EU and how to eliminate insufficient education of manufacturers and consumers, the emphasis here is on both producers and consumers, on protected labels and their advantages on the global market. Why should I, as a consumer, pay this product more expensive? Therefore, consumers must understand that this is not a punch in the pocket, but that they eat a top quality product, a top-notch delicacy. And at the end of its presentation, the Ministry has prepared all pre-development and administrative forms, the system of administrative supervision and official controls, as well as the system of professional control carried out by authorised control bodies, I believe there are 3 in the Republic of Croatia in charge of this supervision, or control. But I would also remind my colleagues from this place and the Croatian public that in the last two years, the number of products that have been marked as geographical origin has grown terribly. I believe that in the next two years, that number will be even bigger because we have something to protect. Therefore, the law itself, the draft law is adopted in order to bring legislation in line with the EU acquis, i.e. to fully ensure the implementation of Regulation 1151 of 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural and food products. And from what I've said earlier, the SDP's Club of Representatives will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42938	The replica has Branko Box. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42939	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My fellow Roman, have you shown Dalmatian cherry is it marasca? There's no Dalmatian cherry maraska, is there? So, you have a Zadar Marasca and it works in a very narrow belt west of Benkovec and to Zemunik several settlements... Rastević, Nadine, Škarbnja, Zemunik Donji, and the final product is a natural maraskino. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many centuries ago he was exported to the English court, Napoleon drank it etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42940	Replication response, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42941	Comrade Box, I apologize for not knowing enough the geographical area of Dalmatia, Benkovec and this part, but I hope you understand that and that you will not take it from me for evil. So, in the debate, my intensity was as I had already said to stress that this conditionally spoken Dalmatian spirit was much more entrepreneurial than Slavonic. So I criticized myself and the Slavs because we managed to protect only 2 products while the Dalmatians did so much more. So, once again, an apology for cherry, maraska, but I hope you won't take me for harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42942	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42943	Here's the Honorable Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here's hoping he won't take this as a sign of personal impatience. The HDSSB club will support this law, but I think that this speaker is also this place and time in which we can talk about problems. But here I also agree with all of what my fellow Roman said and what my predecessors said that the unrelated who is now responsible here, who is not, but in any case we are late and we are very late for the protection of our many products. And believe me, Mr. Minister, I expected that with this law we would also get a certain classification, so what has been protected so far, which is also protected by geographical origin, which is the original Croatian product and possibly create a classification of Croatian products that have the ability to be protected in this manner according to this law. So day to day people on the ground, so also those who deal with production and agricultural and food products that simply don't wander through one I would say huge forest regulations and that, first of all, they don't spend. Here we heard how much money was spent in Istria to protect the Istrian prosciutto, that we simply have this list of possible products that Croatia can protect at the beginning. This protection is, in any case, the interest of the Republic of Croatia, not only of those involved in this production, but of the entire Republic of Croatia, and there will inevitably be one association of producers. This is particularly true of these less developed regions. I'm thinking about Slavonia, too, and it's not just about Slavonic cuisine. The baranian tower wouldn't have been in this weather if I said so and got the designation of origin if it hadn't been for Belje, if it hadn't been for Todorovic, because I don't mean anything by it. On the contrary, it is possible for one such product to be said in a faster way to protect itself since the concert has both professional Jews and available and with means that can enable the protection of the product. If we get to the producers themselves then we'll see that they're here especially in Slavonic cuisine, in Slavonic ham, sausages, bacon, why not blackberries. But there are a number of other products. I don't want to now, I remembered here's the Greek witch and those famous paparazzi who are also a traditional Croatian product, not to mention meals etc. But I believe that the first ministry must be included most actively, then regional and local self-government. It's about certain aids. So we must be aware that in Croatia there is developed Croatia and undeveloped Croatia, so part of Croatia which can and local self-government that can practically finance projects like this while many units of local self-government here above all I mean Slavonia and Baranja without saying that the city of Đakovo does not have certain programmes in agriculture from geodetic measurement, defence from fighting, soil analysis etc. etc. But so is the county. But without the financial opportunities of local and regional self-government in these underdeveloped parts of Croatia, it is very difficult to expect to be able to participate in such projects. Therefore, there is an urgent need for greater involvement of the ministry and the competent state institutions that need to enable practical acquisitions in advance of all these certificates. And what I want to go on, so the price of these products. These are top delicacies, the top Croatian original product, but their price will be determined primarily by the market. And perhaps it is precisely for these products and for the protection of these products that may even consider reducing the VAT rate on these products. So, in the difference between VAT, consumers will be more available, they will be able to produce it more, and I would not say that now the price of this kitchen is practically sold to Slavonian which is sold not wildly, but without fiscalisation somewhere ranging from 120 to 200 kuna and trust many citizens, this tower is inaccessible. That's where we should work, as far as the Slavonic cuisine is concerned, and the recipe. So, you need to get to first of all the unification of all the manufacturers, creating I'm not going to mention the cluster, but cooperatives, associations. So here's the first chance you've got all the invitations, you can also visit the student tower in the 47th. Giakovia bonds. I hope, regardless of this debate in the Croatian Parliament, that the Ministry of Agriculture will provide support, as last year, in accordance with the normal competition in which the bonds were reported. So it's about promoting these traditional products. There's here I'm going to mention another Slavonic dish that some of them in the early '90s renamed or crossed into a shepherd, that's that Slavonic shepherd, there's a number of other dishes, etc. But I think that first of all, this is also an appeal to the ministry, simply to understand the seriousness of this situation as well as to all of us, and to simply make one classification of these products that can first and foremost be given that label and geographical origin, but also protected products. So, in any case, we also advocate the preservation of tradition because these products must be not industrial but made in a traditional way. And yeah, now I've got another Slavonic thing coming up, for example. These are products from the Slavonian black pig that experience its revitalisation thanks primarily to family economies, not so much to incentives. But in any case, the difference between this normal Slavonic cuisine and the kitchen product of a Slavonic black pig, not to mention the faiferves and other species. So, the HDSSB club will support the law, but here I hope the Minister and the Ministry will understand that without one active participation of the ministry, especially financially, but also professionally, so I would say even the creation of certain programmes that are tied up, that simply at this point producers have no matter how much support they have from both local and regional self-government without a real financial injection they will not be able to make.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42944	Replica, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42945	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Vinkovic, I may be referring to this last sentence of your financial support and financial opportunities, but trust me, they're not always necessary enough that a particular project should depend solely on them. So what I'd really like to see is that the Ministry of Agriculture as the bearer of a project like this might be the one who might put on the pages of his ministry a certain way of contacting a person who deals with this business so that entrepreneurs can, and now you've shown your entrepreneurial spirit when you're talking about the products of a black Slavonian pig. So many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have ideas, but the saddest thing is that they simply don't know how to implement their ideas because they often happen to call a resolution ministry where all of them point to each other and ultimately, of all the forces of names, they don't know who to ask. It's been spent a lot on what we've done so far, which means that we already have a certain knowledge base as such. I don't think we should spend any more money in certain things when we're talking about the same thing than not telling a copy-pasteam, but of course that acquired knowledge that we already paid for the second time might be used without paying it again every time. And I think that's exactly what we want from the ministry to see what people are in the ministry, what people are, or who are ultimately departments that fit so that a particular project and a particular idea can be realized by the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42946	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42947	Well, I agree with you no matter how entrepreneurial you are with anyone, but without finance, you won't be able to do anything. But if someone's been through that school, then I believe it has to be, so it's the ministry that needs to be co-ordinator. Because the process of getting the mark is the same for Istrian ham and Slavonic ham. Now, why would someone have to go to school in Slavonia again that you went to Istria? I argue that if we have a certain list of all I would say potential products I believe that here we have a problem with that Terran, Prosek, Kranjska etc., but I believe that this is a problem that can and must be solved, but we do not have to pay 100 or 1000 times perhaps 10,000 times as many as Croatia has its original products the same. And so it is necessary to have this single list, it is necessary to educate people and the ministry must be a service to these people together with local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42948	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42949	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You spoke well in your discussion. I'd just like to tell you one more thing in the replica. Why it is important to us here we can tell this law in front of us is the end of all the actions that have been done before, so it is important for all these products to protect Croatian identity when they join the EU. There were a lot of Eurosceptics who were saying I don't know we're going in on our knees, we're going to break out our national identity. We're not gonna lose him, part of it, and this protects our national identity. You talked nicely about your Slavonic products about your specialties, so I would just remind you that in the tags and Croatian old plum and Slavonic plums, and from non-agricultural products it is paška, leprechaun and world-class lace. And as for wine as well as that, perhaps the Minister will say at the end, there is an E-Bacchus that is the European Register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications and traditional terms. During the negotiations with the Union under the Chapter of Agriculture and Rural Development, negotiations were made between the other inclusion of the term Opolo, Plavac, Mlado vino, Portugizac, Bermet, Dingač, but also Prošek, however we know some of the problems were with Prošek but Dingač was moved later to the protected designation of origin, and Bermet was added to the term self-boring. I am sure since we have information that on 14 March 2013, the ministry sent the EU by electronic means and a written request for recognition of these negotiated names. Only one thing to finish is... that it will all be settled that we will have in the team and our wine as well. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42950	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42951	Well, I agree with you here's what you mentioned is a lace with a pretty-headed, paška, etc. I hope that we Slavons will be smart enough so that our pumpkin or the shocky saying protects the cap, but here we are now talking about agricultural food products even though they can practically get into it but on the side of it. Now I've remembered another Slavonic product or two products it's a bleeder, and Slavonic cuisine is cool is something else and svargl. These are also products that are not produced in other parts of Croatia or if products are not known to produce them like us Slavons, as we cannot produce Istrian prosciutto or cane prosciutto even though most of Istria and Drnišan and Dalmatians take Slavonian pigs, but it does not matter that they get the designation of origin. As long as they don't take it from Romania.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42952	And Branko's replica box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42953	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would also like all the prosciuttos to be impertinent or Istrian from Slavonia, but unfortunately they are not because we know that the government has approved imports I do not know now how many tons it was because of the lack in the market for these products. But that's less important now. In your presentation, you talked about the possible role of local self-government in this whole story but the prerequisite for this in view of the changes, so almost every law we from local self-government get a new burden on our backs but without fiscal decentralisation of your but also my favorite subjects, local self-government is placed in a position that can't be too helpful despite effort and will.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42954	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42955	I will just confirm what my colleague Boxtija said, indeed without fiscal decentralisation, so without higher tax revenues, units of local and regional self-government can give moral support like this, but we cannot consider giving a million kunas or 600 thousand kunas for a project like this, because budgets in less developed parts of Croatia are particularly small in local self-government units and are practically reduced to respecting those basic legal standards of the functioning of local self-government. And here may be the opportunity for us to get to know the EU countries and the legislation a little bit and even the way tax revenues are distributed there. And believe that these 3% received by local and regional self-government including the city of Zagreb and 97% of the state budget that it is not sustainable in the EU. And if we read that famous plan 21 a little bit and I hear that I'm now writing a new plan 21 that I'm reading in these weeks, then it's obvious that it's embossed with decentralisation, so let's finally bring it in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42956	We move on to the individual debate of colleagues Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42957	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's to say something about the origins of geographical origin, I think I'm obliged to say something about coming from the island, and that the islanders organized in time and that they tried to do something when we were talking about product labels that they produced. And thanks to them today, but also to the Law on Islands, but also to the National Development Program of the Island, we have one project that goes from year to year since 2007. the project of Croatian island product. The Croatian island product will unfortunately come to a dead end. We started on time and in the sea of these tags which we have and we have a lot of them from organic products, originally Croatian, Croatian quality, traditional reputation mark, designation of originality, geographical origin. So what we have heard today, one quantity of quality tags, quality tags, on quality products that will ultimately result in them being important only in the territory of our Republic of Croatia. We see for ourselves how difficult it is and how much money it takes to get something at the level of the European Union. All of us here have heard of Pag cheese, wine, Plavac, Postup, Dingač, Žlahtina, Pošip, for the Adriatic heart, paška lace, olive oil or paška salt. That's what we heard, I believe almost everyone. I guess a lot of us haven't heard of rap cake, extra... Old town or school paprinjak, Korčulane cukarina, numerous products that come from the island regarding lavender, cosmetic lines, numerous liqueurs and not to list the rest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A lot of people haven't even heard of Skraping. Scrapping is running around on the scraps if you haven't heard. And I say the label of the Croatian island product included both edible and inedible products and possible manifestations. So all those specificities produced by an island man, an island producer who works hard on that island and survives and stays. From his work or only to be employed with the minimum support he receives from the state. Every year, about 400,000 kunas are spent on this project and the label that is obtained is free of charge for them. But that doesn't mean that it's not worth it, that there's no weight, because there's a lot of control of the necessary expert commissions where professionals are for each product level. And the result is when we started in 2007 we started with twenty and I think one or two products, today it is 344 products from Croatian islands produced by 121 island producers, of which 9 eco manufacturers and 11 producers with geographical indications. It is the treasure of Croatian islands and these people still work hard today, the pre-season has begun. And believe me, tourists have learned about Croatian products that have a small red stamp on them that says Croatian island product. And they're wanted from summer to summer as something that's original, which can't be bought in trade chains, in any big, not everything. This allowed the islands to form shops dealing with the exclusive sale of these products. That we tried to do it in Zagreb. However, I am sorry that this government did not join this project properly and did not complete the space here in Zagreb which is equipped to the end so that it could start selling these products right here in the capital and then in all major cities. Because island producers are well organized and able and this was one of the conditions to produce sufficient quantities of the necessary products which are marked and which is very rigorous here defined in this Act. What happens to those who fail, means they are marked by the European Union, what are the penalties for the inability to produce sufficient amounts of food. This tag is also registered at the state intellectual property office as a guarantee mark and I think it has a very high value. It is currently out here and bid a new public invitation to report island producers and to run for this year possible products that can be marked. In the end, however, we reach that questionnaire again and again. What can we say for Pag cheese, wherever it appears from the Syran Gligora or from the Pasha Syran won the first prize. Honey, here's the last in Brussels last year among 1200 cheeses. And we're talking about what's already been marked. Is it possible that we as a state haven't been able to solve this? What's a producer like that waiting for? What's waiting for all these little ones to get together? I know because I've been with them a lot and traveled through fairs in Croatia as well as outside Croatia. And they were pleased to have found themselves within one association, which they all work together, known and as such trying to survive. However, when we see Croatia's wealth in all rural areas from Slavonia to Dalmatia, it is evident that there are no such associations for all products. I believe that it would also be easier to talk about Slavonic tower or tower or some other products like the one mentioned by plum or everything else. Because that's what we've got. So I'm saying, this law that prescribes procedures isn't enough. I think it takes a lot of work, especially the Ministry of Agriculture in education, in which way we can even get these labels that mean the market, a better price, a better quality, a selected group of people who consume it and who are satisfied with it. What a contribution it is to the economy, but also to all, but also to agriculture as part of it. I think here I'm saying, we've tried to do something, it's going on, but the question is, let's say, with this one mark as well as with all those who were encouraged by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, I think their original Croatian which I still say is presented by the cities of the Republic of Croatia, but we can't possibly get out. Why wouldn't our markings be worth it? Why not make an additional effort to make sure that from what we all recognized, as I said, from Pag cheese, from various wines, and also from Pag laces, if possible, but also from some other inedible products, we can make brands that can hardly find a place on the shelves of some chains or special shops in the EU. I thought here's what I need to say because we owe it to island producers because they can organize themselves, they did, but I think they came up the back stairs and that further without support and a clear path that will signal to them by the state simply won't go in the right direction or the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42958	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42959	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague, Boric, I'm very glad you mentioned this island product. In fact, in our entire debate today we also see with these products that have marks of originality and geographical origin there is a lot of work implemented, a lot of legislative regulation. There is in reality all these years of incentives and production and education and subsidisation of equipment and space so since you mentioned cheese I think it would be very good to say here I think the most famous person professor. Havranek, who is responsible for the reality that today we have profiled our brand of cheese from not knowing this Velebit to Pasha. She has really visited all of Croatia, she has really done maximum education and today we have a respectable little delicate production of cheeses that achieve a great price on the market and no matter what they are very, very famous and are gladly bought by all those who come to Croatia, but I have to tell you and smuggle across the border. I guess now he won't have to, 'cause he'll be able to take it. And it's the same with the islands of these product brands. These are as you said small productions, production in the narrow area, but characteristic and truly appreciated on the market not only in Croatia but also outside, but it is indeed necessary to give recognition of everything that has been done to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42960	The final word of the Minister of Agriculture Tihomira Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42961	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues for the debate that has been and I see that about everyone sharing concerns, that is, the same views that our exceptional quality products should bear the markings of this or that kind. Did we present well at the outset what was made, or how many products does the designation of originality or geographical origin have? I think so. And what's been done so far and how it should work. But here we have a lot of misunderstandings or perhaps a lack of information for you, so I use the opportunity then in this address to say the complete procedure regarding dating, gathering, handing over and the rest is very detailed and it is very detailed on web pages and can be obtained by all the producers in the ministry. What may have to be pointed out is that in fact all these years, and I am speaking now and in the period 2005 and 2010 we had an Operational Programme to improve the production of Slavonian cuisine in which a terrible amount of money was invested, not to mention the Centre for Coolen in Vinkovci for which the same significant funds from the budget were spent. Unfortunately, not to mention everything else, rural development measures through operational programmes, capital investments and other things that have been invested did not bear fruit. That's what I'm saying now, a little bit local as a Nightingale. Why? Because there is one basic problem, ministry employees cannot do their own job for producers. The associations of producers are those who have to submit a request, which must respect the relatively complicated procedure that we have done last year when we changed the law further simplified, made it cheaper. Ministry workers have been working on it for months, but unfortunately sometimes our producers on the one hand don't like to join together and perform together on such projects, on the other hand you little know and calculate. You mentioned the Pasha cheese that's top-of-the-line. The question is whether cheese producers have an interest in additional spending on additional certificates, but then they must work on strictly standardised specifications which apply to designations of origin on geographical origin. And we know for ourselves how and from where all the milk comes from which the cheese is made. Thus, it can also be understood in that part that producers themselves are not inclined to enter the protection of the designation of origin. The whole system works, it works, it works, and it will work even harder on it. In what way? I think a fellow Roman has set up how can we do this? Education, promotion, incentive of the producers themselves. And so far there has been a whole series, and especially in the last 18 months, and workshops and lectures and round tables with our manufacturers to encourage them to apply, to protect tags and others. This is an isolated case and congratulations, and I ended up putting those first violin keys on the Istrian prosciutto and I was a proud minister. It didn't take that long, it takes two to three years at the level of protection in the EU. If we are already talking about numbers or our neighbours who are much longer in the EU do not have such a terrible number of products. Hungarians have 15 products that have protection, Slovenians 23. So it's not too late for everything we haven't done in the previous period to raise the working level or temperature and the level of intensity of work and do it now. This law is one of the ways we're going to do it. There are opportunities, so far there have been a lot of work done, we appeal once again to our producers to join together whether these are producer groups, organisations, cooperatives, classical producer associations because that is the only way we can get protection for our labels. There were a lot of products said not only Slavonic, but also those that should be protected. I'm surprised that my colleague Rimac and colleagues Vinkovic didn't think of a Slavonska tvarka who, despite the lack of a designation of originality, seems to be reaching a very high price of 115, 120 kuna on my salary in Zagreb. I mean, we have a lot of options, we have a lot to do, but it's not the system that's responsible for not having more products right now, we can be better, we need to be even more at the service of manufacturers and as a service. But be assured that colleagues and all those ministry employees who are working on it have done their job with responsibility. They'll do it even better in the future. We are currently working on a new regulation on design, where we are trying to improve some things so that in the food quality management department, we will have a special food quality promotion department that will work directly on this issue. There, I thank you for supporting the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42962	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42963	The final proposal for a law on protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications and guaranteed by traditional specialties of agricultural and food products, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 407. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Snježan Spain, to show itself about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Amendment No 1 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42964	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42965	Thank you very much. Amendment No 2 to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42966	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42967	Thank you very much. Amendment No 3 to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42968	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42969	Thank you very much. Amendment No 4 to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42970	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42971	Thank you very much. All amendments have been accepted and become an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 99 votes for the adopted Law on protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications and guaranteed by traditional specialties of agricultural and food products in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42972	We will now conduct a united debate on - Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 402. - Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 on maximum levels of pesticide residues in and on food and food for animals of plant and animal origin, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 399. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure are united by both first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session, and the introduction will explain the proposals of the Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42973	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The law implementing Regulation No 1107/2009 on the placing on the market of plant protection products is adopted in accordance with EU legislation and thus the same will be directly... in the Republic of Croatia and this law ensures its implementation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed law lays down the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation. It is the Ministry of Agriculture, the professional institution for carrying out scientific and professional tasks in the implementation of the Regulation. This is the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, i.e. Plant Protection, Institute of Medical Research and Labour Medicine and the Croatian Forest Institute, competent inspections and agricultural inspection and obligations regarding the payment of fees for use of language, as well as the application of measures and infringement provisions. The aim of the draft law as a regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human, animal and environmental health in the approval and application of plant protection products and aids, substances or preparations mixed with plant protection products that enhance their efficiency or other properties. Furthermore, the functioning of the EU market will be improved by harmonising rules for the approval of active substances and rules for the placing on the market of plant protection products and aids which have a positive impact on agricultural production, removing barriers to trade in plant protection products, if possible, and ensuring the smooth functioning of the single EU market, which has become the Republic of Croatia in part since 1 July. The draft law in question regulates the placing on the market of plant protection and maritime resources, i.e. registration of plant protection and maritime resources. The area of registration is closely specialised and the process of registering plant protection products requires an assessment of the risks from different areas to be carried out by scientific and professional institutions. The novelty with regard to the current procedure for the registration of plant protection products is that Regulation No 1107/2009 established a zone system for the registration of plant protection products. It also means that the applicant for the registration of plant protection products or of an aid shall choose one EU Member State to carry out an assessment of the documentation and risk assessment from all relevant areas for all Member States belonging to the same registration zone and which the applicant wishes to register. Thus, the Republic of Croatia will have the opportunity to register individual plant protection products for the so-called plant. The southern zone next to Bulgaria, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Cyprus, Malta and Portugal belongs to the Republic of Croatia. The bill will also facilitate trade in identical means of plant protection and within EU territory by means of a parallel trade permit. An application for a licence for parallel trade may be submitted by legal and natural persons for plant protection products registered in one of the EU Member States, which is identical to the plant protection product registered in the Republic of Croatia, but is cheaper than the same. Therefore, the possibility of importing identical plant protection products from other EU Member States at more favourable prices is opened. The implementation of this proposal does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. The second law, the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, was placed on the market of plant protection products with the final proposal for a law. The law is adopted in order to comply with EU legislation, i.e. to fully ensure the implementation of the relevant Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products and repealing Council Directives 79/117/EC and 91/414. The area of plant protection is regulated by the Law on Plant Protection, National Journal 70/05, and the regulations adopted under that law which comply with EU directives repealing the regulation for the purposes of this law. The aim of the regulation, as well as the law itself, is to ensure a high level of protection of human, animal and environmental health in the approval and use of plant protection and aid resources, to improve the functioning of the EU market by harmonising the rules for the approval of active substances and the rules for placing on the market of plant protection products and aids by improving and agricultural production, to remove barriers to trade in plant protection products as much as possible, to ensure the smooth functioning of the EU single market, which we also become from 1.07. The law lays down the body responsible for the implementation of the Regulation, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, the professional institutions for carrying out scientific and professional tasks for the implementation of the Regulation, as well as for the previous law, that is the Office for Plant Protection at the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village and the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine and the Croatian Forest Institute, then the competent inspection, that is, the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Inspection and the obligation to pay fees and use language and administrative measures and infringement provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42974	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. There are also clubs on behalf of the HDZ club colleague Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42975	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates. I won't be much longer since we've been discussing this for a long time. I just want to say that we as a HDZ club will support one and another proposal of this law because we really believe that it is like the laws before it that referred to this topic in the protection of health, human beings, animals, plants, forests, and that means nature. Most of the time, the minister said everything that's connected to the alignment, so I really don't think there's a need, so there's five, six of us here now that I'm reassuranceing all of this and I'm talking about how harmful the active substances are and how the doses are harmful to different pesticides for herbs and that, we all know that together. And that's why I'm just saying that we're going to support both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42976	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42977	Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 402. The debate on the final text of the law is over. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, 99 votes for the final proposal of the P.Z.E. Law have been adopted. No. 402 in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42978	We will now conduct a united debate on - Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 402. - Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 on maximum levels of pesticide residues in and on food and food for animals of plant and animal origin, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 399. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure are united by both first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session, and the introduction will explain the proposals of the Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42979	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The law implementing Regulation No 1107/2009 on the placing on the market of plant protection products is adopted in accordance with EU legislation and thus the same will be directly... in the Republic of Croatia and this law ensures its implementation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed law lays down the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation. It is the Ministry of Agriculture, the professional institution for carrying out scientific and professional tasks in the implementation of the Regulation. This is the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, i.e. Plant Protection, Institute of Medical Research and Labour Medicine and the Croatian Forest Institute, competent inspections and agricultural inspection and obligations regarding the payment of fees for use of language, as well as the application of measures and infringement provisions. The aim of the draft law as a regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human, animal and environmental health in the approval and application of plant protection products and aids, substances or preparations mixed with plant protection products that enhance their efficiency or other properties. Furthermore, the functioning of the EU market will be improved by harmonising rules for the approval of active substances and rules for the placing on the market of plant protection products and aids which have a positive impact on agricultural production, removing barriers to trade in plant protection products, if possible, and ensuring the smooth functioning of the single EU market, which has become the Republic of Croatia in part since 1 July. The draft law in question regulates the placing on the market of plant protection and maritime resources, i.e. registration of plant protection and maritime resources. The area of registration is closely specialised and the process of registering plant protection products requires an assessment of the risks from different areas to be carried out by scientific and professional institutions. The novelty with regard to the current procedure for the registration of plant protection products is that Regulation No 1107/2009 established a zone system for the registration of plant protection products. It also means that the applicant for the registration of plant protection products or of an aid shall choose one EU Member State to carry out an assessment of the documentation and risk assessment from all relevant areas for all Member States belonging to the same registration zone and which the applicant wishes to register. Thus, the Republic of Croatia will have the opportunity to register individual plant protection products for the so-called plant. The southern zone next to Bulgaria, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Cyprus, Malta and Portugal belongs to the Republic of Croatia. The bill will also facilitate trade in identical means of plant protection and within EU territory by means of a parallel trade permit. An application for a licence for parallel trade may be submitted by legal and natural persons for plant protection products registered in one of the EU Member States, which is identical to the plant protection product registered in the Republic of Croatia, but is cheaper than the same. Therefore, the possibility of importing identical plant protection products from other EU Member States at more favourable prices is opened. The implementation of this proposal does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. The second law, the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, was placed on the market of plant protection products with the final proposal for a law. The law is adopted in order to comply with EU legislation, i.e. to fully ensure the implementation of the relevant Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products and repealing Council Directives 79/117/EC and 91/414. The area of plant protection is regulated by the Law on Plant Protection, National Journal 70/05, and the regulations adopted under that law which comply with EU directives repealing the regulation for the purposes of this law. The aim of the regulation, as well as the law itself, is to ensure a high level of protection of human, animal and environmental health in the approval and use of plant protection and aid resources, to improve the functioning of the EU market by harmonising the rules for the approval of active substances and the rules for placing on the market of plant protection products and aids by improving and agricultural production, to remove barriers to trade in plant protection products as much as possible, to ensure the smooth functioning of the EU single market, which we also become from 1.07. The law lays down the body responsible for the implementation of the Regulation, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, the professional institutions for carrying out scientific and professional tasks for the implementation of the Regulation, as well as for the previous law, that is the Office for Plant Protection at the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village and the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine and the Croatian Forest Institute, then the competent inspection, that is, the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Inspection and the obligation to pay fees and use language and administrative measures and infringement provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42980	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. There are also clubs on behalf of the HDZ club colleague Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42981	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates. I won't be much longer since we've been discussing this for a long time. I just want to say that we as a HDZ club will support one and another proposal of this law because we really believe that it is like the laws before it that referred to this topic in the protection of health, human beings, animals, plants, forests, and that means nature. Most of the time, the minister said everything that's connected to the alignment, so I really don't think there's a need, so there's five, six of us here now that I'm reassuranceing all of this and I'm talking about how harmful the active substances are and how the doses are harmful to different pesticides for herbs and that, we all know that together. And that's why I'm just saying that we're going to support both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42982	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42983	Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation No. 396/2005 on maximum levels of pesticide residues and on food and food for animals, plant and animal origin, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 399. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the esteemed Deputy Minister of Agriculture to Snježan Spain to manifest himself. Amendment No 1 to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42984	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42985	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 99 votes for the Law implementing Regulation No. 396/2005 Code of Law P.Z.E. No. 399.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42986	We'll do two more laws on finance. - Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 397. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and you received reports at the session. Introducing the draft law, Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac will explain. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42987	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Before you there is a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance with the Final Proposal of the Law. The proposed amendments and amendments to the laws are necessary because of the remaining EU obligation to comply with Directive 2009/14. The EC on the deposit insurance system and the level of the secured deposit from each individual depositary in accordance with the requirement of the Directive is increased from 400,000 kuna to 100 thousand euro kuna equivalent. This increase further contributes to the protection of trustees' deposits, preserves trust in the financial system and greater stability in the financial market. In addition to the above, the provision of a applicable law providing that the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund may consist, among other things, of the funds collected by borrowing from the CNB, which is contrary to the prohibition of the lending of the public sector by the central bank in accordance with Articles 40, 78. Article 123 of the Act on the CNB and Article 123. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Here it is important to say that we are harmonising with the EU with this law and we are actually raising the level of security savings from $400,000 to 100,000 euros. It is important to say that our financial system is a stable, very good capitalisation of banks and it has proved in fact that the measures of the CNB that were actually in previous years created additional capital that actually the entire system in these times of crisis proved to be one correct policy. This once again strengthens the security of the financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42988	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's the HDZ and colleague Ivan Shuker's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42989	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, apparently one technical law, but I am glad that Mr. Lalovac said these last two sentences, and I think that even during this debate it should be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia is one of the rarest countries in the world, and I think it can be counted on the fingers of one hand where practically its financial and banking, non-banking and financial sectors at the time of the most severe economic financial crisis was stable. And that's the best indication that maybe sometimes our political bickering in this House and elsewhere doesn't indicate a real situation. And I think no matter how much we've been fighting and fiscal and monetary policy, that system has kept it as it is. And I'd like to point out something else here before I start talking about the law itself, which is that it's often heard in this House that the government didn't want to admit the crisis. Since I was a minister at the time and I remember how and under what conditions a decision was made on 400 thousand kunas of a secured deposit, so when practically the minister returns from America overnight and a law is passed, isn't that the best confirmation that there is a crisis in the country and that something has to be changed? Only whoever is in power was not in a position to take a megaphone and walk around Croatia and said there was an economic financial crisis. This was the first step that truly saved a large bank in Croatia. Because Friday afternoon, there was a break in the stakes, and Saturday, it was said that the law would change, and on Monday, it practically calmed the savings in the Republic of Croatia. It's easy to talk about things today, then it's just all shaking, people didn't believe in particular us in Croatia who had to say three banking crises and unfortunately many Croats lost their money. So that's what I wanted to just say when we're talking about this law. The HDZ Club will surely support this law. And as Mr. Lalovac, Deputy Minister, said, this will strengthen the faith of all the savings not only of Croatia, but be assured that tomorrow when we enter the EU and due to the interest rate and some other things like the Croats used to carry their deposits in Austria, so many foreigners will probably bring their deposits to Croatia. However, what I would like to say, and I will say it later in this second law, somehow we, regardless of becoming an EU member at the moment until we enter the Eurozone, don't think we should define in our law that these are euros because if we say that it is equivalent to 100 thousand euros then we can go with some kuna amount that will be there somewhere more than we have a stable national currency. When you look at the course of the kuna in the last 10 years, there's actually no significant oscillation since the introduction of the kuna. This was the reason because on the 6th 10th was the ECOFIN meeting in 2008 in Luxembourg when a decision was made to go from 50 to 100 thousand, so let each state choose as it pleases. So that's when we decided on an amount of $400,000. And I think this law should cost either 750 or 800 thousand kuna for a simple reason if we often like to argue in politics about the need to abolish the currency clause. If we often talk and that many Croatian citizens have their savings roles in euro, and very little in kunas and if we still put the euro in the law, then simply in some people it will be said they will sell the demagogue, talk about abolishing the currency clause, and at the same time when they are concerned, they are putting the euro. Maybe I'll tell Mr. Deputy to think about it even though it's no mistake. There is one rule of government in the 1990s that has never been abolished, and it says that all amounts in all Croatian laws must be expressed in kunas. It's a '95 regulation I think, it's never been lifted. And as for Article 2 where it says exceptional provisions, I don't think that you should have changed this whole item here, you should have practically just changed that in place of item 1 and 2 put the number 2 or 3, but it doesn't matter you decided to change the whole item. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this law with the fact that the Ministry of Finance would, given the new circumstances and everything should think the same about amending the DAB Act, and also by entering the EU, many members and their banks are paying one part of the funds, and the other part of the funds have in reserve with them in this reserve for the reasons that they wanted us to or did not want to recognise it, but these funds that banks are paying in DAB as a deposit for secured savings as a percentage on the assets they have in a certain way raise the price of capital. And given that at this point DAB had already paid funds somewhere if I'm not wrong about 5% of the total savings of Croatian citizens, maybe it should be thought in this direction because if we think about all the possible ways to take off the interest rate, maybe we should see with the banks what this means. This is like one of the suggestions to think about him. I repeat, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42990	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42991	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, and the HNS club will support the passing of this law. I'd just like to point out a few facts on behalf of the club. So at this point a month ago or so ago, the savings deposit from the population in millions of kunas was 161 billion 320 million, of which the kuna deposits, or savings deposits, were 29 billion 622 million, foreign currency 131 billion, 698 million kuna. As is known, the target level of the Deposit Insurance Fund in the Republic of Croatia is 2.5% of the amount of the secured deposits. According to the current scope and the level of deposits secured and the payment of planned insurance premiums for 2013 planned amounting to 498 million kuna. At the end of 2013, the Deposit Insurance Fund would achieve the target amount of the fund, of course, according to the law that was so far, which is the insurance of savings deposits of up to 400,000 kuna. With the growth of the guaranteed amount at 750 thousand kuna, we therefore support it in kunas, not in euro. The entry into the EU will increase the amount of secured deposits to approximately 40 billion kuna and the target amount of the fund to € 4.5 billion, which, according to some estimates, will take two years to settle that amount. Of course, only an increase in the insurance of savings and hand-to-hand deposits will ensure that Croatian citizens' even greater trust in our banks, and I believe that by entering the EU and opening up the human and capital markets, we will also ensure that this stability that Croatia had as a financial system can also attract part of the EU savings, which would indeed be an additional success for both the financial system and the capital flow that would provide banks with the opportunity to place them primarily towards the economy. So we also support the HNS club by passing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42992	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42993	Final draft law amending and supplementing the deposit insurance law, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 397. The debate on the final text of the Law is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I find that Law No. P.Z.E. No. In the text proposed by the applicant, 397.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42994	I - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on administrative fees, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 403. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, he will explain Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac's proposal. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42995	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes. Although he is fundamentally, professionally actually proposing are actually the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, so the Ministry of Finance has been given the opportunity to present these changes to this House. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes are done in order to further comply with the acquis of the European Union and to the Regulation on the Community Code on Visas, the Foreigners Act and the Law on Weapons. And it is extremely important to say briefly in which part they are actually in, the harmonisation was, primarily through this Law, there are much more exemptions than paying administrative fees, so that in the fee, the requirement to extend the period of validity or the duration of stay for more force or humanitarian reasons will also not be paid a fee. At the request for the issue of a visa for children, it will also not, for the purpose of issuing visas for students, students for the purpose of schooling, studying and professional education, at the request of and for the issue of a visa for research, research, means third-country nationals, and at the request for the issue of a visa for non-profit organisations up to 25 years of age to participate in seminars, conferences, sports, cultural or educational events organised by non-profit organisations. So this part is in line with the European Union's standards so that on a single, single market, we actually have to have a single system of administrative fees for third countries. There are also reduced administrative fees for short-term visas, currently in Croatia it would be 520 kuna to 460 kuna or somewhere around 60 euros in kuna equivalent to directives and an extension of the period of validity or duration of stay granted on the basis of the visa issued for a serious personal reason. The administrative fee is also reduced from 520 kuna to 230 kuna or around 30 euros. So that part is balanced at European Union level. It also introduces an obligation to pay an administrative fee for the issue of authorisation for new activities prescribed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms, meaning that this Act was adopted in 2011 and only here is in line with this Act that in the case of new activities, these are the activities of intervening in arms and training of citizens for the proper use of firearms in the issue of these new activities, because that administrative fee is the same in other around 250 kunas. A unique fee is also now being introduced at the request of all types of visas in the amount of 460 kuna instead of the current 260 kuna. It is important here to say that this part is used depending on whether the European Union has a single agreement with members outside the European Union. Thus, since the European Union has a unique, simplified regime with, e.g. With Russia and Ukraine here, in fact, those who are looking for a Croatian visa will actually pay not these 60 euros but simply means 260 kuna, meaning this lower tariff since the entire European Union actually has with Russia and Ukraine that, let's say that lower tariff. So it is important to say that since we are entering the single market, it means that we are now acting as all Member States as the European Community and we cannot have different, different administrative fees for other countries. So when those who come from these third countries into the European Union mean we have to have an identical tariff model in view of compliance with the law. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42996	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42997	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Therefore, another technical law which, in a certain way, will act positively with potential tourists in the Republic of Croatia in view of reduced and liberating, reduced amounts and liberation. But there are some things here that we should discuss. Because I don't know who the creator of this law is whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Finance, if by what it says here, I think it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But let's move in order, so it's article 5 in the tariff of administrative fees, heading 10 that changes and reads, and before that, the complete tariff number in 8 is abolished. So, issuing a short-term visa of 60 euros. And since we start here with euro and later in other tariffs in Articles 6, 7, 8, 9. The 10th mentions the kunas, they're mentioned somewhere, they're not mentioned. I think we should have the uniqueness of expressions regardless of the short-term visa issue here, says 60 euros in kuna equivalent to the average rate. I think the same thing should be said here in kunas as much as it is in euro equivalents. Only if this isn't charged out there. But yet they are not all of these countries, they are practically not facing the European Union and it does not have to be the euro of some kind of asset, in fact the currency to which it will be measured. Maybe we should put it here, which I do know if it's 60 euros that it's 450 kuna, or if it's 30 euros that it's 240, 250 kuna, and then ours in consulates and embassies will recalculate. Because I'm saying it's not good in one law if we mix the currency for no good reason. And the other thing, it's not good to say in one article that it's 250 kuna, the second article shows the amount, let's say that's the case of Article 8, where, for example, Article 7 says 1500 kuna, and Article 8 says for the aircraft and transit visa only 460, for the short-term visa 460. This is Article 8, and since I have already said that in Article 5 we are talking about euro then the question is which currency is being raised because these other articles are referred to kuna as a means of payment. Therefore, I think that in this article 8 should be added in kunas or said in an article that in all the tariff numbers... exclusively in kunas, then it is not at all spoken of in kunas as it is in the old law because when it is known that the kuna is a means of payment then there is no need to indicate besides any amount that it is kuna. And I'm saying, Article 5, for a number of reasons, should be the same... in kunas, not in euros. If there is any particular reason for it to be in euro, then this should be indicated because of these other articles that are later sorted. And so, as I said at the beginning, no matter what we may be cut off and what we will have to introduce visas for certain countries where a large number of tourists are coming to the Republic of Croatia, I think this reduced amount and if the consulates are well organised that this should not be some big problem. But I'm saying, for the sake of avoiding any technical problems that may arise tomorrow in the name of the club, I suggest that in this Article 5, if it's possible to place kunas and to indicate that all the later ones in the tariff numbers are in kunas and there's no need in addition to asking kunas. And it would be good to see if she's a '95 regulation in the government. I think of the year as still in force because unfortunately very often it is mentioned in Croatian laws, using euro, using kuna. I think that by the time we enter the European Union we should use the term Kuna, and if it is related to a currency clause or something, it should indicate that it is the equivalent of the euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42998	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. That's what we'd like to discuss tonight. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 with the final draft of the mandatory health insurance bill. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-19-0.u42999	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on administrative fees, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 403. The debate on the final text of the Law is over. The amendment submitted by the Committee on Legislatives was accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final proposal for the Law. That is why I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it simple with 101 votes to pass Law number P.Z.E. No. In the text in the text proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. Dear colleagues of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, continue with the plenary session of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. Under the agreement, I suggest we discuss together - the final draft law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 406. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. We are also holding a joint discussion on - The final draft law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 408. The proposer of this law is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments can also be submitted by the end of the debate. And this law has been discussed by the working bodies of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received their reports at the session. And the third law in the united debate is - The final draft law on the implementation of the European Union Regulation in the area of drug precursors, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 401. The proposal is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. You can also submit amendments until the end of the debate on all three laws. They also held a debate on this legislation by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You also received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the bill's proposals? Yeah. Excuse me. Here you go. On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
