ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58609	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We continue with work and according to agreement with the joint debate on the following laws - Final bill on amendments to the Law on areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 517. - Final bill amending the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 518. - Final bill amending the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 522. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Introductory proposals for the law will be explained by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Funds Mr. Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58610	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished MPs and MPs before you there are amendments to the three laws that actually make up one set of laws redefine measures in areas of special state care, therefore encouraging measures in areas of special state care, mountain and mountain areas and in the City of Vukovar area. These three laws make up one single legal package together with other laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. Thus, the Tax on Income and the Tax on Profit, and the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. What is the purpose of the amendment to these laws? The main objective is to bring the existing reliefs, the incentive measures for the area of special state care, mountain and mountain areas in line with the new categorisation system towards the level of development as prescribed by the Regional Development Act as early as 2010. In 2010, the Regional Development Act established the categories of areas according to the level of development at local and regional level. They are divided at local unit level into five groups and it is determined that the units that are in the first and second groups are to make up the areas so-called. assisted areas. These are those units whose development index is below 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. which lags more than 25% behind the average of the Republic of Croatia. However, after the law was passed, it did not go any further to apply the same categorisation specifically. And we continued to function in one system where we have parallel categories of area. We also have areas of special state concern with our set of measures, we also have mountain-mounted areas and we have these new assisted areas behind which there were no concrete incentive measures. The idea is to finally revive that categorization. The new categorisation would liven up to the adoption of a new Regional Development Act as of 1.1.2015, and these amendments of the law actually bring the current PPDS incentives into line with new categorisation in a very simple way. For example, under the Law on Areas of Specific State Care. Therefore, there is a measure in the Law on the field of special state care which leaves total income from profit tax to local self-government. The proposed amendments would be redefined as follows. In order to transfer total income from profit tax to those units of local self-government in areas of special state care whose index of development is below 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, those units that meet the criteria for obtaining the status of assisted areas under the Regional Development Act. For local units whose development index is between 75 and 100% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, the state would give up 75% of tax revenues. In other words, they would see a 25% reduction in tax revenues compared to the current situation. For units whose development index is between 100 and 125% of the development index, the reduction would be 40%, in other words 60% of the total income from profit tax in its area. And for local units whose development index exceeds 125% of them would remain 40% of tax revenue or reduction would be 60%. What does this model show? This model shows, among other things, that there are significant numbers of units in areas of special state concern whose development index exceeds 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. And that was actually the main motive to finally apply that categorization. In fact, the current system of categorization and the area of special state care and especially mountain-mounted areas is simply not objective enough, it is not used in the usual socio-economic indicators as are common in the world when we talk about the categorization of less developed areas and therefore we have major deviations and actually inequalitys. At the same time as having a large group of units covered especially in areas, mountain-mounted areas that do not meet these criteria. We have a very large group, an even larger group of units and outside the field of special state care and outside the mountainous and mountainous areas that meet the usual socio-economic criteria for gaining the status of assisted areas, other words that are extremely undeveloped. And that's what we're going to do in 1.1.2015. We'll bring in a system that will turn those units on. To get back to relief. In addition to this relief, therefore, as regards income from profit tax, one measure is transferred in the Tax on Profit Act, so it is the urgency that all those measures relating to profit tax which regulate the issue of direct relief in the case of the consumer or the taxpayer to be transferred to the basic law, so in the Tax on Profits Act, that the measure relating to the reliefs for business entities is transferred from the Law on the areas of special state care to the Tax on Profits Act, with this major change to remove the time limit of application of that tax relief. So you know that the current law on areas of special state care, tax relief for economic operators outside the activity of agriculture and fisheries, has been limited by time. So we lift the time limit, it becomes timeless, but we tie it up by the amount to the rules of granting a small value. So the rules on granting small-value support say the amount of relief for an economic operator cannot exceed 200,000 euros in three years. Therefore, it is a restriction but this time limit that existed no longer exists so that economic operators in assisted areas will be able to enjoy these benefits permanently. It is also important to note that this amendment immediately moves towards a system of assisted areas, so the Profit Tax Act will immediately apply a new categorisation according to the Development Index. One part of the amendments to the law on areas of special state care also refers to the erasure of measures which have been assessed either not to have the expected effect or have not been applied at all for different reasons. Therefore, measures such as cash compensation on areas that are particularly in the environmental protection system, thus depriving the unit of local self-government which has protected natural areas in its area and the measure relating to the right to compensation for the cost of stay of children and kindergartens and nurseryes from the state budget are deleted. In fact, these measures have never been implemented so far. They've never been provided with funds. A regulation that would regulate cash compensation for protected natural areas has never been adopted and the financial situation is such that there is no room in the budget that this means of insurance is being deleted over the next three-year period and therefore we propose to delete these provisions. The proposal is also abolished to eliminate tax relief in the payment of real estate tax since it is estimated that this measure has not received those desired effects that simply given the low cost of real estate, this amount is so low that it is not a real incentive for the development of the real estate market in that area and is therefore proposed to abolish this relief. As far as the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas is concerned, we have one change of measures. Therefore, the amendments to the Law on Special State Care and this Law provide that income from profit tax are to be paid in accordance with the categorisation of the unit of local self-government according to the Index of Development, therefore the same as was done in the Law on Areas of Specific State Care. Those units in mountainous mountain areas whose development index is below 75% would still have the same rights. Those units in the class between 75% and 100% of Croatia's average would have a 25% reduction in tax revenues. Those units that are between 100 and 125, their incomes are reduced by 40%, and those units that exceed 125% of the RH average would be reduced to 60%. This is an amendment to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas and the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar and is the only change to make it easier to transfer profit tax relief to the Tax on Profits Act, so according to what I said earlier that the total problem relating to profit tax is regulated from one place and this is the Tax on Profits Act. Here are the key changes in the short term. I hope you understand that it was simply necessary to make this adjustment. Unfortunately, I have to be open and also say completely that the situation in the budget is such that certain cuts had to be withdrawn. We tried to minimise the level of these cuts since it really is an area that cannot be called developed, it is less or more less developed areas of the Republic of Croatia, but we had to take some moves especially when we know that our ultimate goal is to fully implement new categorization according to the Development Index and that is why in 2014 we made this transition. So we've reduced but a really very limited level of support for these areas. You need to know that the country is a year-on-year area for special state care, mountain-mounted areas and the city of Vukovar singles out only through tax reliefs, only through transfers, so grant from the state budget that I'm not talking now about co-financing capital investments through other programmes, so without that co-financing of 1.3 billion kuna per year. And these measures we propose in these laws have far less financial effects. So, in the case of the Law on Areas of Special State Care, we're talking about 35-40 million, 40-45 million kuna impact on local self-government revenues. Indeed, for those who do not meet the criteria of obtaining the status of assisted areas and in mountain-mounted areas, the reduction of the income of local self-government units is estimated to be 10 million kuna. So we really went to a very, very mild, mild reduction, gradually in 2015 will revive the new system. It is also important to point out that we are preparing another special fund for 2015 that will continue to co-finance units that lose status which will not or will not gain the status of assisted areas and now have the status of mountain and mountain areas and areas of special state care depending on the degree of their fiscal capacity. So we will continue to support these units after 1.1.2015, which will lose the category of assisted area. Here's to your attention, I hope your support for the adoption of these legal amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58611	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58612	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is not good to present the large figures that are allocated from the budget... this billion and 300 Mr. Deputy Minister is your funds for the decentralised functions that it receives between the other and the city of Zagreb from these funds. So of these billions of 300. The second thing, the key assistance that units of local self-government have had, it has been incorporated into the Law on the implementation of the state budget since 2004, is that the return of income tax and the return of the income tax paid by citizens and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia instead of units in the area of special state care or as we will now call them by the new government. And it's a key provision and it's a key function for local self-government units if it's not found and I don't think it's in the 2014 draft budget. This bill of law I think should not have come to the bench should have gone as a unique new law on regional development because then one large part of the units of local self-government would have lost that status, but also one part of the units of local self-government located in areas that were not affected by the war will get that status. But I say these billions and 300 million kunas to you are co-financing of primary and secondary education, so that's what units of local self-government get from the Law on the financing of local self-government units and then from the state budget is the part that goes to a minimum standard and from these billions of 300 million kunas... and that part and this part regarding income tax returns. And as far as profit tax deductions are concerned, you know that, unfortunately, in areas of special state concern, if we ignore those areas that are connected to cities that are highly developed and have entered that area only because they have been marginally affected and so on. I therefore believe that this law should have gone fully because this will only cause confusion and panic, and nothing will be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58613	The answer to the replica of Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58614	... Therefore, the return of taxes to citizens amounting to 460 million kuna in the last year remains and is not touched. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So you'll find it in the state budget so that amount is not touched he stays. He's not in this State Budget Act, please know for yourself. And as far as these other measures are concerned, they are still more significant means. Therefore, the state left 266 million kuna in the last year is not a small amount. 266, and the increase in the share of income tax has left 360 million kuna to these local units, so it is a significant amount indeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58615	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58616	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, you said in your opening statement that one of the fundamental reasons why you're going to amend these three laws. The fact that the 2010 Regional Development Act was not implemented until the end because it introduced assisted areas which did not receive support from the state budget because the support was shared in accordance with these three laws. However, the deficit remains. Today, with this change, only a certain number of local self-government units that have been in the mountainous and mountainous areas that have now been removed from the specific state care system, but to those of the same and other local self-government units that, under the Regional Development Act, might have entered the state support system, we do not do so. Therefore, this amendment of the law did not achieve anything except that we took significant funds from certain units of local self-government based on which they could function as units of local self-government. Therefore, the government would have been credible if it had adopted the Law on Regional Development a new one, determined which areas supported as set out in the draft law and then may have put these three laws out of force and, in so doing, in transitional and final provisions, determined according to those areas which are now set out in the new Regional Development Act, out of areas which have been passed from the state budget, funds, for example, on profit tax. We therefore achieved nothing with this except that we abolished a significant amount of funds or took units of local self-government that were part of their budget under current laws and based on what could have worked. This way I don't see what's reaching except that you're alone in the end we're going to help the state budget but at the same time we're going to take big funds from local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58617	The answer to the replica of Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58618	As I said on 1.1.2015, the new Regional Development Act and all those individuals currently outside the system will then be entitled to state support. However, it is also simple because of the situation in the state budget, and also because of the fact that there are indeed a large number of units in areas of special state concern especially in mountainous and mountainous areas that absolutely do not meet the criteria, we have made one transitional model that has already been going on since this year to a certain reduction of existing rights because since 1.1.2015 this reduction will be much greater. So this should be seen as a adjustment to the budget of those units that do not meet the new criteria, and new units and this significant number of over 100 units will gain the status of assisted areas but since 1.1.2015 is simply a position in the state budget so that we can do so from 1.1.2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58619	Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58620	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, you said this law lays down measures to redefine incentives. This is not a redefine of incentives but a reduction or elimination of incentives has been foreseen by these laws that in these sensitive areas of mountain and mountainous areas and areas of special state care and the city of Vukovar incentives are given out of profit tax. So the minimum and minimum amount of profit tax is achieved in these areas. so the whole of Croatia has hit the crisis, and these areas in particular. How are entrepreneurs gonna make a profit there in the first place? And secondly, in Vukovar yesterday's Tax Tax Tax Act, you freed entrepreneurs from paying taxes on profits. So what's the incentive if there's no profit tax there? And there you stimulate the opening of shopping malls in Vukovar where nothing can be sold on the market and we end those little markets and that big shopping centres are being opened instead of freeing taxes on profit production activities in the Vukovar area you are opening there to finish up that poor little production. You're trying to call these new measures more beautiful expressions. You can also call the best move the most beautiful new term. You can call the rakes gardening equipment, but the rakes remain ever more predatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58621	The answer to the replica of Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58622	It is our understanding that the extension and increase of the tax relief for profit is a contribution to the development of the economy. We see it as a contribution and a direct help, a concrete help. So when we have a situation that for the current two years, the city of Vukovar would remain, or the businessmen of the area, without any relief on profit tax. And when we have a situation where we end any time restrictions on the application of that relief, I think we help the economy develop in that area. And you know very well that we cannot go selectively to the activities of the individual in the Tax on Profits Act. So I think the government is doing a good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58623	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58624	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. For one law that reduces funds to local self-government I will never raise my hand because we know that Croatia is so centralized fiscally that the simple local self-government barely survives like this. This seems to me to be a certain partial short-term solution with long-term consequences. You mention 1.1.2015 when it'll all go away. But after these laws, it is likely that some units of local self-government in these areas will prove that they are unable to survive fiscally, and then there will be a next round of proof that they need to be abolished. Now, did they deserve to be abolished if we previously prevented them from funding these amendments to the law? We need to be aware that, that local self-government is really in big trouble. That because of the economic bad situation in Croatia, the plants are closed, that people remain jobless and that there is no basic source of funding for local self-government from income tax. So the situation is both crisis and chaotic, it is simply not a good message to send a message to citizens that citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot live in a place where they want to live on at least roughly equal terms. And I suggest you in this section when you're still going to discuss these models of decentralisation fiscal for and... Development for 2015 1.1, try to think about the model fiscal decentralisation per capita. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She's the fairest. Let each Croat have the right to a minimum of some of the funds of the Buddha where he lives. Then we'll have even development.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58625	The answer to the replica of Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58626	I would like to stress that those units of local self-government that have a development index below 75% are not taking anything, these amendments of the law are not taking anything. The total fiscal effects of these changes were estimated at around 50 to 60 million kuna in 2014. And as far as this last one is concerned, it's, what you last mentioned that's crucial and that's what we're going to do. So next year we're going to bring a new model of fiscal alignment that will be based on the per-capital indicators of the fiscal force of local self-government units. And instead of the model we now have in the State Budget Implementation Act, it will be much simpler and I would say a fairer model of fiscal alignment based on the Per Capita indicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58627	Ivanka Roksandić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58628	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Deputy Minister Pugliz, I cannot agree with one of your findings. You said that because of the financial situation in the next three years, you had to delete article 28 which provided funds in the current law for the cost of the stay of children in kindergartens. Well, it's like working in two governments. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports brought a few months ago and we almost raised our hand to those who voted for the compulsory introduction of preschool. How do you think a Croatian costume that already has a terrible problem will finance kindergarten and I see that the reduced funds are again being helped from the state budget, how they will ensure the normal work of kindergarten and let alone the departure of the children of six-year-olds in preschool. This will happen to you in all units of local self-government in areas of special concern, in a few weeks, in a few months. Do you know, Mr. Puljiz, that children from the primary school Croatia depths, the Croatian costa is going for a meal during a great vacation because they are cheaper over in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do you know that people buy bread and milk every day, non-living foods of vegetables and fruits just from the Croatian deep pass to the Bosnian deep. It's because they have nothing to live on. So it's like sitting in two different governments. One ministry imposes an obligation no matter where you live in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Sisak or Croatian depths, Croatia's bones without speaking in the Court. Come now at this time to the Court you won't find anyone on the street. Walk between the Gline and the Court on the road, the state road won't meet any cars and you won't meet a man. Why am I saying that? Because the only possibility these people can survive is to move out of those parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58629	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58630	We are well aware of regional inequalities... The Ministry of Regional Development, you believe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we're also aware of some of the general tasks that we have that concern, above all, the possibility of a state budget. As far as the Court and Kostanica are concerned, nothing will change them by amending the law. They are below 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, they are indeed among the weakest-developed units and there will be no change for them. And the introduction of a new model of fiscal alignment is expected that the environments such as Croatia's Kostanica and Dvor will also receive additional funds that will then be able to spend on adequate preschool care for children in their area. However, simply for this measure which has not been known since the adoption, so since 2008, when this measure was adopted, the PPDS Act, unfortunately, has not, in particular, been able to provide additional resources. We can intervene individually for some cases, but we don't have the resources for the program, and by law we want to finance the program, not individual cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58631	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58632	Madam Vice President, Your Honor. You said you were introducing these measures because of the problems in the budget and the situation in society, and I understand you, we are all aware of the situation in society, but it is amazing that this is against your decision in Plan 21, you said you advocated the even development of Croatia, and by this measure you punish, you continue to encourage large cities to remain, those four large centres can survive. And small municipalities, chiefs, people who have managed to do something, who have managed to raise their municipalities a little bit, who have managed to achieve some success in these municipalities, you continue to punish them with this measure and it is not a solution for Croatia to have all Croats live in four major cities, it is clear to you and I believe that you too stand for it. But this is a new centralization, you're taking funds to the local administration. Who's reasonable for that could be today? Instead of encouraging us in your Plan 21, it was said that you will decentralize Croatia, that you will give new funds, I expected that you will leave something to local and regional self-government units, and you will again take the team and bring us into a situation that many municipalities will disappear, or you will not be able to survive this and say that you will then give support from 1.1.2015., and then many will not be able to function... how they are unreasonable. You're terminating the real estate tax on those units because it didn't show up. Economy, are we encouraging the economy to come into these most underdeveloped areas and to create new factories in these areas? I don't see from these measures that you've encouraged, or I don't see what the call is now, which is the motive of people from the big cities who are possibly tenants there, especially entrepreneurs to come and invest in small areas. Surely with these measures you didn't do it and you won't do it, so further drilling of those weakest and poorest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58633	Replication response, Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58634	When we talk about big cities then you probably know that a good part of the big cities is currently receiving state aid under the same laws, which in 2014 will receive less help. So cities that are in the category of big cities receive millions of kunas currently from the state budget as support for their budget. Is that okay? I don't think it's right. We in the ministry and the government hold that this is wrong and we think that as far as regional development is concerned, we should certainly create a system that will be as objective as possible because this existing one is not objective. We don't touch anything for units that meet the criteria for gaining the status of assisted areas. Once again, I stress, nothing but making it easier for the economy in these areas, removing the time limits for the application of profit tax reliefs. But we must be aware that some units currently receiving millions of kunas from the state budget are not undeveloped areas in the Croatian context. They are European, but in our context they are not, and we need to optimise and better channel resources from the state budget that are limited. That's the whole idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58635	Ante Babic, replica. Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58636	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, we do not live outside Croatia, we live in Croatia and come from the area, specifically me, the mountainous area. The simulations they showed for the city of Imotski with these changes and additions to the law we will lose 7 million kuna in the budget, which is 20% of our income. Now imagine what would happen, let's say Minister Linic lost 20% of his income. You say it immediately moves with a new categorization towards the development index and that certain measures will be abolished as well as by counterpart Babic, especially colleague Roksandic, related to kindergartens, so that I do not repeat myself now. But you can imagine how attractive these properties are and how many units of local self - administration will receive funds from the sale of these properties. In conclusion, perhaps it could be said, and it is not pretentious, that all that may not have been destroyed by weapons in the war with great Serbian aggression will now be done by feather, willfully or willfully, we will see this through the new Regionalisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58637	Replication response, Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58638	So I can't agree that the amendment to this law will destroy something in these areas, I think only one better redistribution of funds will happen, and that help will really go where it needs it most. Of course, for certain units there will be cuts and there will be some adjustments, but I am convinced that with this model that we suggest that this adjustment will be possible, acceptable, without calling the challenges so much more difficult socioeconomic consequences. But let us not forget, there is a significant number of units outside any aid system that currently does not enjoy a single kuna to help the state budget, and they are well underdeveloped or poorly developed and this is the key thing that will happen 1.1.2015. According to our estimates, more than 380 000 inhabitants are in such areas and we really need to secure money in the budget for these areas, and at the same time we cannot close our eyes and continue to stick to the support system of those areas that do not meet these criteria, which do not meet some common socioeconomic indicators of measurement of development. We're not that rich.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58639	And Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58640	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy Minister. You now assure us of something that we all see differently than you do and I'm not so sure that we're at the same wavelength. I think you are, I'm signing all this stuff that my colleagues said before. But the end of your debate is in fact the answer to what this law is. When you said that the real reason was the state of the budget. Now you say none of those who really need it, and now they're in, and some new story won't get any less money. However, this material says that savings for the state budget are between 35 million and 40 million kuna. These problems in Croatia Kostanica, Dubica, mentioned by her colleague Roksandić not to grow, but to become insolvent. And I think my colleague Sanader also mentioned to you about selling land, or real estate tax. You don't have anything down there right now, I'm talking about Banja, Banovina. You don't have the population down there right now, the whole move, and here's your colleague who gave you this idea, and you can pass the whole move. Five, six times follow that move you won't find a living man and now you're still going to get that tax relief that you're saying is small, that there was little means. Then why are you shutting it down? Why are you shutting it down? If someone decides to do something down there, so why are you practically cutting him off in this way, that possibility, that stimulation that was negligible as you stated in the materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58641	And the answer, Jaksha Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58642	I think we can agree that for those measures that have not shown justification in terms of impact, there is no need to keep them in the law. This would be our intensity, and this particular income, which will nevertheless be realised in real estate sales, will primarily belong to local budgets. 60% of that income goes to local budgets. These are really small amounts, it's a small traffic that happens in these areas, but it will go 60% into the hands of local budgets. And I'm going back to that basic thesis again. So, these changes don't happen for units below 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, which are really objectively the weakest developed areas. And for these others we simply do this adjustment that is gradual, but that must happen. I think it's better this way than it happened in 1.1.2015 and they're running out of 90% of the support they're receiving right now, and then the adjustment would be much, much harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58643	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. Given the united debate, the agreement is that club representatives speak for 20 minutes. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58644	Dear Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law certainly should go in the opposite direction to address the accumulated state problems in Croatia. Although small numbers are small, even geographically centralised, all ends are being dragged from one centre to the Parliament, whether the Government or not, and as we are the smartest in solving certain problems. There's a law in the Catholic social science of subsidiarity that can solve a lower administrative unit let's not solve a senior administrative unit. That is why I would advocate here not so much to support this Law on the categorisation of the area in Croatia and change of aid, but to advocate the regionalisation of Croatia without any dogma that at the outset we are going to be able to solve these problems successfully whether it is five regions, six or seven but without regionalisation of Croatia. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry that I've been elected to this House by the will of the people as you are, but I'm sorry that we're getting a grade, only a passing grade, that's plus two or two. I'm sorry. And from one journalist I've heard in the last few days that according to competence, this assembly of Parliament may be one of the worst convocations of the Parliament over the past 20 years. It may be a subjective opinion, but we do not show our work in the reception of the people regardless of the individual steps and values, we do not get, we get a passing grade but barely a passing grade. Therefore, rhetoric in this High House should also be changed. It's not the rank of popularity of those who speak most in this home but those who seem to be cleverly silent. This is also not the solution, not to talk about problems does not mean to treat problems properly. We are certainly in favour as independent representatives of the regional structure and some regional units of how many of them will remain an open issue, let all the reasons for and against be presented, let them address the underdevelopment and categorisation of certain areas. But certainly Croatia cannot remain on four million inhabitants of 560 regional self-government units, that it is too much for the budget and that there is no money left for development and infrastructure. When it comes to this law on regional organisation or the new regional division of Croatia, we will see how the debate will take place, how the arguments for and against will be brought down, but we are in reverse order to resolve decentralisation of Croatia and decentralisation of funds, so some regional units solve problems as best they know, but we need decentralisation. In our House whose member I was yesterday was mentioned that all lead to policy in debates but I would conclude that they do not lead to politics as a care for the general good, not excluding subjective reasons but to go into politics and rather somehow to fight for the citizens to whom they will give new trust in the selection of their representatives in this House. Politics is different from politics, politics is dealing with general matters through its own interests and politics could be to exclude personal interest as much as possible and to work for the general good of the people. In the times of crisis in which Croatia lives, in which it is located not only in material values and money but even more problematic are the spiritual and moral values and crises in which we are in. That is why it is necessary, with the many laws and regulations that we make, to work on the pedagogical level of raising a system of values without which there is no survival of this people or of our civilization. That is why we remain open to debates in this House. It would be good if this could be the first reading, while the second reading respects legitimate remarks and facts follows a certain time. Thank you very much. And now, Mr. Damir Cain will continue on the same subject on behalf of an independent club representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58645	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Let's start with a little easier subject. I've always experienced this relationship between mountain and mountain areas and areas of special state concern that it should be the same. But you know what happened in Buzet or down in the area around the Motovun forest? The inhabitants of the mountain-mounted area have the right to collect, say, truffles without paying forest fees and those living in the area and in units there are special state concerns, and they have to pay permission to collect truffles. Give Mr. Deputy one instruction to the director of the forest to simply balance that status. That doesn't cost anybody, eats truffles. The truffles cost 1,000 to 2000 euros, but they need to be found. But we can't make such a distinction between the people who live down there. But let's let go of that little problem now. To go back to this essence of the law. The status is shrinking and it's unequivocal at least when it comes to us living in those units in Istria. I know what I was doing there in the assembly, in the ministry, for a pay phone in 2003, that the city of Buzet would get that status, although I most deserve to believe that we were included in the area in 2003, the mountainous and mountainous area. Most deservedly, I consider the then mayor Pin Josip Batic, Mrs Ornell Rumen and Darko Kranjcic. Along with the town of Buzet in Istria, there is also Motovun, Cerovlje and Gračisje and the areas of the state care of Lanisce, Opek, Grožnjan and Lupoglav. So eight units of local self-government of 41 plus 1, 42 in Istria has mountain-mounted status. In Croatia, we have if I'm wrong about 256 units that have so-called units. Supported status and what this specifically means at one point was said by the Deputy Minister and this means de facto that, in order to help units of special state concern from the Croatian budget in this year, 84 million kuna will be paid, aid based on profits amounted to or will amount to 267 million kuna and to citizens through the refund of the tax 450 million kuna, which is a total of around 800 million kuna. The deputy minister mentioned a figure with those decentralised funds of approximately 300 or 400 million kuna. What does this mean specifically for one city of Buzet and others in Istria? In 10 years, the city of Buzet has arrived on the basis of 130 million kuna. within 10 years, the mayors have had the budgets of 450 million kuna plus, say, only in the city of Buzet since the municipal enterprises of about 600 million kuna, but far more important or most important in all, that huge funds have been coming back to the citizens of that area, or our economy. The city of Buzet means as a mountain-mounted area in 2013 a budget of about 42 million kuna, 30% of the budget is exactly this "helped" status. What does that mean for citizens? We who come from that space know very well, it's about a family return of 5 thousand kunas of an average salary, for example, what exactly they don't have in our nearest neighborhood, let's say in a Pazin that today thinks about raising the cut from 7 to 9% and hope they don't. Otherwise, annually these 8 places in Istria make 25 million kunas mean a significant part of the population or economy. Sometimes I'd dare say there was money if there wasn't even a way to spend it. I dare say that with this law, the law we don't have yet to enter into force on 1.1.2015 can cause even greater problems. I can agree that some of the environments are artificially uplifting the standard, it's all fine. It's nice to have I don't know from the inox of those handscaps, maybe they shouldn't be like that, but let's be in some environments they were like to say and Archbishop Bozanić what's more expensive at first gets cheaper, but I agree someone should pay for it. Until, on the other hand, as the standard rises, it has not equally invested in industrial zones, and this is today coming at a charge. Standard is, let's say, in my town, I'm free to say he was high. The economy was largely neglected even though these funds were intended to encourage it. With these in Buzet 130 million kunas across Croatian roads, water etc. He withdrew from the budget about that much money without building the Butoniga. Now there's a lot going on and there's a lot coming into charge. And it is fortunate that as a city, we have one Cimos where 1350 people work in Buzet, Roč, 900, exporting 60 million euros because everything else is on their knees. Let's play the Buzet story now. In 10 years Istria has withdrawn freely can be said somewhere by this basis Istria when I say Istria I mean these units of Laniste, Buzet, Oprtalj, Gračisje, Grožnjan, Cerovlje, Lupoglav, Motovun we pulled about 500 million kuna. The problem is that the administrations put their salaries above legal limits but on another occasion. What will happen specifically under this law? We in Buzet or local self-government will lose to those 13 to 14 million kunas this year, 2.6 million kuna. Istra about six million kunas. We can survive, but we'd rather have that money. What does this law mean specifically? That some hundred other municipalities will enter the status of the assisted area and what is most important for areas of special state concern to abolish the time limit on the return of that income or to obtain from the economy. We all know, let's let somebody's salary go now, where local self-government rules are 20 to 40% higher than the government's salary, which tried to get Mrs. Jadranka Kosor in line in 2010, but we can see it didn't work out. So a bunch of that money went for kindergartens, it went for a ride, it went for a retirement standard, for schools, for marenda, the good for a party doesn't matter. And what I would be most fortunate to have the citizens first of all retain the standard that they had that tax return to keep the economy what they had and then local self-government itself. I am the first to decentralize Croatia, in these circumstances I doubt it will happen so soon, but God forbid we start at least talking about it. It means decentralisation in a way to lower powers but to keep your powers parallel to money. This package of laws, though mentioned in that assessment, is 45 million kuna combined by my calculation, weighs somewhere around 100 million kuna. So 100 million kuna returns to the state, without 100 million kuna, maybe even the state. It is certain that this will far more affect local self-government than the state will actually get. What's interesting about the Law on Area of Special State Care is this real estate tax. The problem with each other is that there are jobs everywhere today. I repeat, self-government will find itself in trouble but the economy will find itself in even bigger problems in these areas, and citizens in an even bigger perhaps than the economy. What may seem to bother me a little bit is this unfortunate 2010 law and the standards of calculating this first and second assisted space. According to that calculation, not even a single Lannister whom I like to call Istrian Kozar is because in one day of '44. There burned down 1,000 hundred family buildings, which has one super-average standard. I, whoever wants to see what it looks like, put him in the car, take him down, show him, and then let him just judge himself. I think we should just talk about it. But what I might be most concerned about is what's going to happen there in 1.1.2015. I will not say that these laws can contribute to the abolition of some municipalities but if the municipality remains or the city is without 30 to 40% of the income, then such a municipality or city is simply ill-written. I agree with my predecessor when he says that 556 units of local self-government are too much, I agree that 20 counties are too much, we will agree that 310 tourist communities in Croatia are probably too much. So many contributions to chambers, we've seen just what you're spending it on, it's exaggeration. And the fact is also I dare say that Croatia has never evolved faster than under the '74 Constitution. among other things, perhaps and therefore, because in that period the state was most decentralised. I will also admit that this system of small municipalities that have received budgets, which have become municipalities from local communities, and in general these municipalities have coincided with the parishes, the county dioceses have nevertheless encouraged and raised a municipal standard. Yes, what you couldn't predict is this crisis, it offends those when you pay for your own money to pay 30, 40% for wages, that the cost and wages go 50% of the budget, but all in all, I think that these small municipalities have largely raised the standard of living in certain areas. It is necessary to see clearly what trends are in the world, the circulation of municipalities is also in the Scandinavian countries, in England, Denmark, elsewhere it may be different. But all in all, what would be the point and what is the conclusion of our club, which is most needed for this law or this set of laws on the mountainous and assisted areas, or areas of special state care to go into two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58646	Thank you. At the presentation of counterpart Grubisic Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58647	My dear colleague, you mentioned a system of subsidiarity. What can be solved by a local unit let it not solve... However, these laws we are discussing today show that the government is trying to partially solve problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since he doesn't want to solve problems essentially, in fact, deeply. It's absolutely certain that in order to properly assess these laws and we should have talked about reforming local self-government, the state administration of which all the money is spent. And regardless of the current state, we can still have 556 units of local self-government more than one UK. The answer to these and similar questions cannot be answered in one debate. These problems cannot be solved in a month of two or two laws that are actually the beginning of a reduction in one's right, which the Deputy Minister says will address in 2015, but local self-government units should survive to this end. However, we must start to discuss the reform of local self-government but on the basis of some kind of document, based on expert analyses, based on the objectives set and political and of course economic specificities. This government seems to me trying to treat aspirin with a severe illness. We here in two years even though we received a promise we never seriously talked once about local units that are very important to the functioning of the state. And in order to be able to decentralize the real state, we need to talk about it and we need to start preparing for the reform of local units that will implement the next or other... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58648	Reply to replica Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58649	Advocacy that no historical decisions can and should be made in a debate but issues need to be opened and debates dealt with extensively and truly. The state cannot function with the 565 local self-government units it cares about, and they are managed by the central state administration. That's what subsidiarity needs to be reduced. They included in their programme one initiative from Brussels as four of their headquarters within the European Union that one of these pillars is subsidiarity. They believe that today's bureaucrats in the European Union are far from the original principles of the European Union and they advocate subsidiarity, transparency, plurality and democracy. We must be open that we need a regional reconstruction of Croatia. That so many self-government units cannot be served and that we can stop the development of Croatia. So I thank you for your observation, and I hope we can push this problem together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58650	Damir Mateljan, a replica of Damir Cain's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58651	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, there's a very scary curse, it's about like this: I hope he didn't have one. I agree that this law is unfair, but it's unfair for 40% of those municipalities and cities whose index of development is below 75%, and they don't find it in the PPDS or in the mountainous area, and they don't get any funding and donations like cities and municipalities that you listed in Istria, and the development index here is both Lanista and Buzet and Buja is above 100%. You tell me, we're all locals, but if it's fair, I don't think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58652	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58653	Well, I agree that there's a need to correct the injustice, but there's no need to take those who "have." I also said, that's 2.6 million kuna for us. I agree with all those who talk about the state being radically decentralisationd. And I said not once after this parliamentary speaker that Croatia or that space, it doesn't matter, the Socialist Republic of Croatia has been developing the fastest since '74. Until '90. A year than he'll say since the '60s. '80s. A year. Whether someone liked it or not, it was the fastest development, perhaps because we were most decentralised. I agree, since '91. '95. There was war, there was this refugee drama, it happened after that restoration, there was this European crisis and so on. But the fact that in that structure whatever anyone thinks, it was created I would say a tourist base that was only so sold out in the '90s, the country was electrified, the infrastructure was laid, industrialized, we had 2 million employees in the '90s, that school basis was set, ports were set and so on. Well, then why was that possible? Probably people had incomparably more flights, elana, were ever more present, local government was more rational, we had 107 if I'm not wrong of municipalities in the area of the then SR of Croatia. It is certainly unsustainable today, but surely it is necessary to make a whole series of changes so that the system is just and that it can eventually live. And I agree that even the existing laws were not fair, but one municipality in Istria if no one deserves privileged status, deserves....
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58654	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Branko Boxti and counterpart Zvonko Milas will share the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58655	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy with an assistant, a colleague and a colleague. Here are the PPDS in Croatia as areas of the state territory of the Republic of Croatia which, due to aggression during the Homeland War and the state of occupation, suffered damage to war, war destruction and faced severe demographic, social and economic problems. In the '96 period. To date, the scope of the PPDS has changed in accordance with changes in the circumstances in these and other parts of the Republic of Croatia so that today's PPDS includes units of local self-government that have not directly suffered the effects of aggression, but are lagging behind from other parts of Croatia. Although the PPDS differ significantly by their geographical features, it is common demographic, social and economic lagging behind the rest of the Republic of Croatia. The social picture of these areas burdens the unfavourable age structure of the population and great unemployment. The revenues of municipalities and cities on PPDS are practically twice as low as the rest of the Republic of Croatia, which is another reason why local self-government units in these areas cannot turn their own development. The PPDS has been identified just to achieve a more balanced development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, fostering demographic and economic progress, the completion of the programme of reconstruction of permanent housing. However, the current situation in these areas has shown that its faster economic and overall recovery and development of existing incentive measures have not been sufficient, and therefore the previous Government has proposed further measures by this law to encourage the recovery and development of these areas. However, today's proposed Law amending the Law on PPDS tax on profit is reduced according to the index of local self-government development, which will make cities and municipalities very sensitive to their own cash registers, and this leads to the difficult and normal functioning of local self-government. It is also interesting that in Article 1 of the amendment, the applicant interprets the abolition of Article 21 of the current law and says that units of local self-government will increase revenues based on real estate tax to be shared 60:40 in favour of units of local self-government, which should bring 33 million kuna to these units of local self-government. And the site before that introductory part of the bill you're saying that the effects of tax exemption on real estate are negligible. I don't know what's right, whether it's the first thing or the second thing you're saying. In addition to the introduction of a profit tax rate on PPDS according to the development index of Article 4 of this proposal, Article 26 of the applicable law repealing local self-government units on PPDS financial support to cities and municipalities that have a registered area of certain degree of environmental protection, i.e. they have a reserve, a national park, a special reservation and a nature park or a water protection area. Article 5 is deleted from Article 28 of the existing law, which abolishes the cash compensation in percentage for all three PPDS groups. Therefore, by abolishing certain incentive and financial measures of the local self-government unit at the PPDS, it will run out of part of its current income and will no longer be able to function normally and effectively. In addition, most municipalities and cities will be left without the possibility of payment of regular payments, and there will also be no complete and no economic recovery. PPDS has never been in a more difficult position than it is today according to all the serious estimates. So, unemployment on PPDS is almost two and a half times higher than the unemployment rate in the rest of the Republic of Croatia. I just want to remind you it's '99. In its final report, the State Commission for the List and Assessment of War Damages estimated that these same damages amount to around 136 billion kuna. Croatia has invested just over 40 billion kunas in rebuilding houses, apartments, municipal and social infrastructures to date. 136 minus 40 you'll easily get to the number that's the difference. These data clearly show that this war will take much more time for the destroyed, devastated areas to be helped by the state. Since Prime Minister Milanovic's arrival, practically all housing processes have been stopped at the PPDS. Thirdly, priority lists are made, and a negligible number of users have received construction material, house or apartment. It cost donation of state houses and apartments to defenders, it stopped selling state houses and apartments to returnees who had no defence status, one word broke the entire system of measures that had been real for years to improve the state of the PPDS. As a result of the conduct of such a policy back two years, we have the emigration of many families from the Republic of Croatia, and the largest percentage is from the field of special state care, because in these areas they no longer see any perspective. The worst part is that young and educated people, and without youth and wit, these areas have no chance. I think it's interesting to hear what she did to Germany by tearing down the Berlin Wall in '89. years to level the conditions of life in eastern and former Western Germany. It's been brought in so-called. A solidarity pact based on which a three-and-a-half percent solidarity rate has been introduced on all gross revenues. Afterwards, the rate was increased to seven and a half percent and lasted until the end of 2004 because it was considered sufficient for the reconstruction of the former East Germany. However, it has been shown that this is not the case and that the recovery of the economy's infrastructure will need much more help, which is why the same Solidarity Pact has been extended to 2019. What do we have before us in Croatia today, or what laws? So this particular war-stricken area puts them in a position to be even worse than the rest of the war. I think you've made a replacement for thesis. A colleague of Bačić and Shuker said, it is fundamental that the law on regional development was first to be passed and to place every di belongs to him. Then talk about this. As you know, two are the basic incomes of the local self-government unit. It's income tax and communal compensation. So by introducing and passing a law like this, you're bringing us into local self-government units to raise local taxes, primarily communal fees, then cuts, etc. So again to the harm of these same citizens. Here is the conclusion, the Croatian Democratic Community club, of course, will not support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58656	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar was adopted in 2001 and it regulates the incentive measures for the over-needed reconstruction and development of the City of Vukovar. In this law, therefore, there is also a provision that spoke of a profit tax whereby, therefore, all those taxpayers carrying out their activity in the City of Vukovar had a tax relief when paying the tax. However, the prescribed tax exemptions and reliefs in Croatian legislation have been assessed by the European Commission inconsistencies with European legislation and incompatible to the single European market. Therefore, according to EU rules and guidelines for national regional support, two types of regions are meant for those where there is a very low standard, high unemployment, and less developed but still all on the Member States' proposal. Support may be provided as support for initial investment in the creation of a new company and for the growth of the activity or change of the production programme of an existing company. I'll give you one of the examples. So different tax policies by the EU, so in 2006, when the EU in the context of tax policy and tax relief, it ordered the Luxembourg Government to abolish the relief tax that financial firms had in that case, which was in force for almost 80 years in Luxembourg. Therefore, for reasons of adapting to European tax policy, there has been an amendment to Croatian legislation, more specifically the tax relief provisions that have been amended in such a way that the amount of the exemption from the payment of the income tax cannot be greater than the amounts set out in EU rules on aid for small value. The legislative proposal that we are discussing today goes in the direction of eradicating these measures from this law and transferring them to the Profit Tax Act as it was at the very beginning, but in a way that respects the conditions and criteria laid down by the rules on aid for small value, i.e. maximum release of EUR 200000 during any period of three fiscal years. This legislative proposal is proposed for adoption, proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure for justified state reasons, i.e. this law would be one of the components of the law package, which would contribute to the mitigation of the deficit of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, taking into account the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy in 2014 to 2016. In this context, which, according to the 2014 draft budget, will therefore amount to 17 and a half billion kuna, I believe that this measure will not be of great importance to the budget, but it will have meaning for Vukovar. The amendments to the law before us need to be seen in the context of amendments to the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, which, among other things, shifts to a new system of categorisation of units of local and regional (regional) self-government according to the Index of Development, which would address the problem of parallel existence of several laws that encourage the development of less developed areas. Therefore, Croatia's regional policy stresses a reactive approach to development caused by the legacy of communism and war destruction from the early 1990s. Encouragement, transition and a more derivative approach to regional policy comes through several international projects under which a new system of regional policy management gradually emerges. However, recommendations and documents made under EU financial side projects have been more or less ignored. It was only after the adoption of the Regional Development Act in late 2009, that a serious process for the creation of a new regional policy system began, but several more obstacles would have to be overcome by the complete transition. Fortunately, the city of Vukovar changes to the Regional Development Act will not affect the city of Vukovar as well as the islands under which private policy is still maintained. And here I stress that Vukovar, with his historical meaning and his symbolism, has earned that status. The law enters into force on 1 January 2014 and the application of the profit tax for 2013 will take place under the earlier applicable rules on how to make tax reliefs for the taxpayer of the income tax, therefore, in areas of special state care. Speaking of the Law on the Reconstruction of Vukovar, I will take advantage of the opportunity and I will say something about the current picture of Vukovar, so the biggest problem of Vukovar and Croatia, that is, what bothers every citizen of ours. This is a difficult economic situation and one of the biggest problems of unemployment. Of the 27 thousand and 673 residents in the Vukovar area during October 2013 3015 unemployed persons were registered in the employment office, so of 18,367 workers was around 16%. The increase compared to the previous month was 6.7% while to the same month in 2012 increased by 9.9%. In total, during October 2013, therefore, 66 persons whose place of residence is the city of Vukovar were employed from the office, which is 37% lower than the previous month. In the October 2013 unemployed group in Vukovar, the highest unemployment rate was 25-29 years, so 422 people or 14%, while the total number of unemployed was the largest share of those over 45 years old. However, the accumulated problems in Vukovar will not be addressed by quick measures planned to be implemented in a short time. It takes a lot of will, effort, understanding, support from the government and the Croatian administration, good coordination to achieve certain results, and I think that there is slowly something going on but the beginning is each difficult and should continue. To this end, the Fund was established in 2001 for the Development and Reconstruction of Vukovar, which mainly financed projects from the state budget, and today we have on the pages of the City of Vukovar's Reconstruction and Development Fund a public call for all interested to submit proposals for projects for the inclusion of the strategy, reconstruction and development of the city until 31.12.2020, and we hope that these projects will indeed be projects that will be relevant to Vukovar and its development, to improve the quality of life. What is not best is that it will mainly be financed from the state budget although it could have been done much more to get funds out of European funds and there would have been some savings for the state budget. And in the end, I would just like to say that we must never forget that Vukovar has been devastated and economically and demographically since 1991. And no matter what he's done, he's still today the misery of the city from 20 years ago and a few years ago. We're still talking today about 297 violently abducted persons we haven't found, about 22 thousand exiles many of whom haven't returned or died, or maybe they've arranged some kind of life in some new environment, about murders and deaths, I don't want to talk about numbers, I'll just say that only so far have 52 mass graves been found. About two-thirds of people have returned to the city and Vukovar was once the largest Croatian port on the Danube River, an educational, economic and cultural centre of so-called Vukovar Srijem County, and for all this the city deserves and for all that it means for Croatia, because of its daily, difficult dramatic past that we all work together to restore the economy and life in Vukovar is also the insurance of the survival of the Croatian people in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58657	There you go, buddy. Let's go to the replicas, first of all, to the presentation of colleague Branko Boxes. Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58658	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Boxtija, you in HDZ are lost in me, knowingly misleading the Croatian public. A large number of units of local self-government that have a development index less than 75% which is the national average does not receive any compensation. And those who have entered PPDS and who have a development index greater than 100% therefore belong to a fourth or fifth group if they were occupied by war. So they're getting help on who, then less than 75%. So here you are in your debate knowingly arguing that your town of Benkovac, here I have tried my best, so I took out who has a development index of 66.85% and belongs to another group, so he doesn't get money from the state budget at the expense of whom, Dubrovnik, father further, New Vinodolski, town of Vodice, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58659	Replication response, Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58660	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you're the one who messed up the pots. Yes, it is, very much. I said that first it was necessary to adopt the Regional Development Act, to define clearer criteria and each unit of local self-government to come into its cube, is that the first group or the fourth group, and when it is known then talk about what is before us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58661	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58662	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. colleague Kutija, see the explanation of the proposal for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, for areas of special state care, for the city of Vukovar and for mountainous areas. The point and the point is identical. And I will read only the last sentence that contributes to the mitigation of the deficits of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and that law should be filed according to the urgent procedure and the poor is the one who, at the expense of those who died in the war, at the expense of those who have been expelled, is the poor one who, at the expense of those who have been imprisoned and the factories in the mountainous areas, goes to save the state budget. And that's why we told you to pass a new Regional Development Act, and someone walks into the house where they belong. There are also areas in Croatia where there was no war on the unit of local self-government that simply sank and that was why we said this law should be passed. On the other hand, when you look at the inconsistency of the whole story, look at the Law on Tax on Profit, see its provisions, see the provisions of the Law on Areas of Special State Care, the Law on the City of Vukovar and the Law on Mountain Areas, and then get all that into the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Well, I don't understand if you put this in the Law on Areas of Special Government Care why in Article 38. The law on the implementation of the state budget is the exact same story? And even if we had discussed the Income Tax Act yesterday, then we would have just made total chaos. It cannot be decided on the fates of people if you do not pass the basic law and if it had to be intervened in one part of the profit tax due to 2014 it could be intervened. The other thing is, you didn't say the key thing. According to EU directives, tax reliefs cannot be in such laws but can only be in tax laws. But I repeat, without a new law on regional development, this is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58663	... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58664	Thank you. So you're worth the old poor girl, and you're heavy to God. Previously, several colleagues mentioned a figure of 556 units of local self-government of this number 325 was covered by the current Law on the area of special state care. Here is the figure itself that speaks for itself enough how many municipalities and cities are covered by this law and how many riots will bring these amendments to the law. You're a friend of Clara's from the community.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58665	You're responding to the replica of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58666	Yeah, it's all right. I'm a colleague of Clara's. All right, thank you. So a large number of municipalities and cities will be in a position not to function normally. Is that the goal of the government of the Republic of Croatia? I hope not. But I can assure you that many municipalities and cities will be in a position not to function normally with these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58667	Ante Jerolim's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58668	Thank you, Vice President. You were talking about abolishing unemployment on emigration, so I wonder who will stay in those areas, who will invest in those areas where the financial motivation of entrepreneurs is killed to invest in those areas where unemployment is already higher than in the rest of Croatia. I'm asking you what's going to happen to 80 units of local self-government that draws a significant part of the funding right out of this law, and which is often up to 30% of the total budget, is this even a step towards their abolition? The special story is the development index, the 2010 development index. Today, at the end of 2013, did the circumstances change, what are the indicators today, how much lower the budget in these units, how much higher unemployment is, does the legislator know? He certainly doesn't know it at this time because he can't even know it, but he knows our people, they know in Polaca, in Zemunik,... in Starigrad, Novigrad, in Jasenice, who will lose this status and this was the only law where they draw some kind of means most important and most important law for them and through this law and these funds have worked, doing their projects and approaching the rest of Croatia. And we're gonna take them back 10 years with the feather move.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58669	The answer to Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58670	Thank you. So I said in my statement that the unemployment rate on the PPDS is 2.5 times higher than the rest of the Republic of Croatia, and this is particularly expressed in the east of the Republic of Croatia and in Banja. That's a fact. From that fact they wanted us not to, we can't escape. On the one hand, we have this picture and this condition, and on the other hand we have governmental measures and activities to repair this situation. And the same result is very visible to all of us, so there's no result.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58671	Vesna Railway replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58672	Well, you said in your discussion that the demographic and social picture of the area of special state care didn't yield results and that it was still lagging behind. So I'm wondering, obviously, we can't give these donations that were from the state anymore, and obviously they didn't give the results. And the question is whether all areas of 325 local self-government units deserve everything they've received so far. And the demographic image of the whole of Croatia is what it is. I come from a city where fortunately we have 7 inhabitants more than we had on our last census. So the demographic image of all areas of the Republic of Croatia is similar and can't be the reason why you've led to the demographic and social lag behind these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58673	The answer to Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58674	Thank you. My colleagues, I come from this very space and live in such a place. Before her colleague Ivanka mentioned that the situation there is that there is no population that has no economic activity that has no kindergarten etc. And what if it hadn't been for these current government measures, or this PPDS Act? What would you look like then? So we have a situation as it is, that's why I say we should first pass the Regional Development Act and put everyone where they belong and fix the situation that way, and not this way how it's done now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58675	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58676	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with you that before these laws were passed, it was absolutely necessary to pass the Regional Development Act and put things in place and then enter into the amendments to these laws. So it's a fundamental thing. But unfortunately, it seems more important for the government to take the undeveloped 35 to 40 million kunas that speak openly. The tragedy is that they openly say that they support them, their coalition here in the Parliament because they clearly say that the aim of this law is to reduce the deficit, to take those who are the poorest 40 million or 50 million kuna, and that's their only goal. So he doesn't care about the development of Croatia as you said, one responsible state such as Germany, which today invests in East Germany's solidarity tax, I think is somewhere around 5% today that everyone in western Germany is paying. Former Western Germany 5.5%. So, they had communism, we had communism and war. We've had communism and war and one and the other is a monster. Both are monsters. Both are monsters. Therefore, it is quite clear that it is a harsh, rude intrusion into the budgets of units of local self-government that have survived as much as they have survived, as they have survived and as they have evolved. In this way, we will really get into big problems and, of course, there will be emigration. But they did not seem to have enough here to be in charge the other day, although colleagues from the Kukurik coalition announced, in particular Minister Linic announced that they would no longer be in debt by the end of the year. A few days ago, they were in charge of 10 billion kuna. For a billion and 750 million dollars. So it's not enough. And here we can finally conclude that the Kukurik coalition will be inn and unfortunately the poorest part of Croatia will pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58677	The answer to Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58678	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58679	Please allow your colleague to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58680	It may not seem like a large amount of 30 and 33 million kuna for the Croatian budget, but place yourself in the position of the head of a small municipality that will receive no less than 50 to 100 thousand kuna at the annual level. It's huge money for him. In particular, I'm in the Lishana Ostrovica municipality. For them, 100,000 kunas is huge money. If he gets less money, and with this bill, he probably will, I'm asking questions as to how it's going to work. So, you bring conscious municipalities and cities into a position that they don't have the money to function normally, it's on one side. The alternative is to increase local taxes. So it's a communal fee or tax on, or tax on income tax, and there's no other tax. So again on the back of those same people who live so hard in that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58681	Branko Vuksic has a replica of Mr. Milas' exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58682	Dear colleague Milas, this is exactly what you've talked a lot about about exhibiting examples of the hypocrisy of Croatian politics. But not just one policy, but all the policies so far, all the authorities. But not only politics but also various headquarters and headquarters that deceive the public. Yes, the problem in Vukovar is still visible ruins. The problem in Vukovar is unemployment, destroyed production. Vukovar could have looked today and had to look like the headquarters of the Croatian Bishop's Conference with the readings of the onion. Vukovar deserved it because Vukovar is a hero city. And Vukovar was possible to restore. But in Vukovar, our eyes are on sight and on the very day of 18.11. After that, we don't think about Vukovar anymore, we don't talk about Vukovar anymore. If it hadn't been for two decades, the Vukovar would have been destroyed today, it wouldn't have been the Vukovar problem, but it would have been as proud as a city that deserves far better. And although that's not what you're talking about, the greater the monster of communism is certainly people like Sanader and Vidosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58683	The answer to the replica Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58684	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, I can agree with part of your presentation, so all that you've been saying about Vukovar, especially this part, that Vukovar is talking about, saying, or that Vukovar feels and that he is unfortunately only on the 18th, so on the day that what happened happened. I've always pointed out that Vukovar is not the Vukovar to be visited, which should be thought of, which should be talked about all that was only on the 18th but on a daily basis or in every opportunity that this city deserves, and those people who are there, who have returned. But what's the problem with Vukovar, so Vukovar will be demographically extinct. And the problem with that is war, the problem is that 22,000 people went into persecution and a lot of them didn't come back, died or created life simply elsewhere. Because it's definitely summer of '91. And in January of '98, it's in Vukovar history, so it's the hardest period of life for Vukovar and its citizens. And after that, for 15 years, I personally think, in terms of rebuilding that a lot has been done in Vukovar. I am speaking systematically and therefore about housing, however, Vukovar shares fate unfortunately. I think that, after all, I come there every day, there we live, in the end I was born there, so in terms of the restoration of Vukovar is. Look at the little history that the country has been rebuilding since the war in this way homes, objects and so, the problem is in an economic sense. The problem is what you're saying. So, unemployment, no existence... perspectives of the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the biggest thing that Vukovar will ever do in the next 10 years if something really doesn't happen in this country, unless we all start pulling for this Vukovar together and for Croatia at all, he's going to stay a dead, demographic-dead city. So, people are just gonna leave, and nobody's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58685	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58686	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas was passed in 2002, the Law on Vukovar in 2001 and the Law on PPDS in 1996, so it's been going on for 17 years, and then these laws would have been applied if the good ones had to produce some results by now. So I'll start with what Mr. Boxtija said on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club that the PPDS situation was never harder than it is today and that the unemployment rate in these areas is 2.5 times higher than the unemployment rate in the rest of Croatia. Isn't that enough reason for this policy to be reconsidered, so the policy that has been conducted so far obviously has not yielded results. Local self-government units on PPDS and mountain-mounted areas are probably more affected by the current crisis, but even before the crisis, their situation was such that it could be said that the policy towards these areas is not good, it does not produce results. In addition to giving, colleague Cain spoke of retreating. It's not a withdrawal, it's just giving, this ridiculous term of withdrawal from the European Union funds assumes some conditions, some work, some assumptions that funds would be received, and for this withdrawal as a colleague of Cain called it, it's enough just to put you on that list and you're withdrawing funds, and you don't really have any obligation either central authority or local authority to create the conditions to do something with that withdrawal for those areas. So other than relief and withdrawal, mostly without content and without criteria. How absurd the situation in these areas is is the fact that we have come into a situation that the unit of local self-government that is below 75% of the development of the Republic of Croatia de facto supports one that is above 125% of the development. So we have to understand that if we give someone something, we take it from someone else, there is no infinite source of money that can then be given to our goodness. As soon as we gave someone something to someone, we took something directly or indirectly. How can we allow such an absurd situation for someone who is almost twice as poor to help someone who is twice as rich? Isn't it time for such a policy to change? So besides passing a regulation and giving someone something actually no systematic policy in these areas was and therefore there was no result. No educational, economic, transport, demographic policy has been conducted, specifically according to a particular part of the Republic of Croatia that needs some policy and because of the absence of these policies, because of the absence of the criteria that some units have become units on PPDS, there has actually been a failure of that policy and it is finally time for this policy to change. The huge interest of the Republic of Croatia is a balanced development of all its areas and this goal, which is therefore key to the development of this country, and we are all saying it, has not been achieved. It's time for that policy to change. This law abolishes certain privileges. It is completely pointless, one of the few measures that has some policy elements in it, demographic policy was to encourage or compensate children in kindergartens. This measure, which has the elements of some of the systems of demographic policy, was not applied because, over the years, no funds were provided for it, and all the others were policies just take one and give the other. It can't be any policy, when we realize that it can't be politics and, of course, it's not taking the poor, it's trying to make these injustices that are de facto even ineffective, to try to correct themselves. That's the point of this policy. This reduces these support for local self-government units that are above 75% of development, therefore the situation found is taken into account. The fact is that some units of local self-government will work harder now because they're used to that kind of functioning. That's why we're going with the gradual abolition of those even if there's still injustice. The units that are 75% of the development of the Republic of Croatia will continue to support those developed 125% compared to the average of the Republic of Croatia, but the injustice is gradually abolished because there would indeed be great shocks and inability to operate some units of local self-government. But that's why you need to be very careful when giving rights because the rights are very hard to break. You will always have more dissatisfaction if you deprive someone of your right than you will have the satisfaction of giving someone the right. Everyone thinks that if he got something that he deserved, and anyone you cut off, you cause severe shocks and fractures, and that's why the responsible authority has to be careful when some rights are given. And now we are in a situation where we need to make this system of regional development so that it is effective, that the Republic of Croatia is indeed a more evenly or evenly developed country than it is today and we are facing these difficulties that have arisen. And, of course, in these discussions, it completely forgets who is responsible for these policies. While in this House and in our public forget who did what and who is responsible there will be no good solutions. Everyone who participates in the debates, everyone who listens to the debates must know that. If you don't know that, then you can do whatever you want. Just have a good rhetoric and everything you've done becomes irrelevant. This is not the way in which one responsible policy can be conducted and run a country that will go towards the path of progress. And another thing. If you talk about what is not a subject, and this often happens in this House again, you cannot pay enough attention to the subject, you cannot understand what it is and yet there is a possibility of blurring. That's how you talk about the number of units of local self-government, that's what you often talk about. Often unfounded, without arguments, without analysis with a mere demagogue justification for spending funds. So today, the debate on the number of units of local self-government has absolutely nothing to do with this debate. It doesn't matter if in one area a single unit of local self-government is underdeveloped or five of them together. Politics towards them should be equal. And while we are replacing the thesis, discussing what is not a topic, important things are not to be ignored, neither in areas of special state concern nor in general in our policies. As far as specific laws are concerned, they remove some benefits that have not been effective. So they were more or less pointless as the exemption from real estate tax in I don't know Osijek County at an annual amount of 2,000 kuna. What's that measure? Well, it's just writing text according to a lot of laws and the People's Newspaper that costs so much for that same provision. Then some benefits or reliefs are abolished, some benefits for which there was no funding in the state budget, which is also, of course, nonsense and irresponsible policy. If you've put something into the law, then you can't make what you've put into the law not to be realised as a compensation for areas under environmental protection in areas of special state concern and mountain-mounted areas that the municipalities of these years haven't received, because there was no money in the state budget. Is it perhaps a relationship to the poor if we already speak in such a way and use this discourse? The fee for the stay of children in kindergartens and nurseryes was also not paid, and it was very clear in the law and colleagues these days asked why it was not being paid. Well, it would be more logical to ask that question to those who put it into the law and did not provide money for the implementation of this useful measure. As regards the Law on the City of Vukovar, this law remains a situation such as relief, in fact, it is better in some way, with the necessary respect for the regulation on small EU support, which is our natural obligation, so that the exemption for first group areas so far was 25%, i.e. a profit tax was paid 25%. Under this law, it's 0% for first group areas, even if it's not clear, I don't understand that Vukovar is in the first and second groups. Whether he's dividing himself into the first and second groups. But after 2014. 75% under the current law should be paid profit tax for companies that employ more than 5 employees, who live 50% in the city of Vukovar, and now it is 50%. In addition, the restrictions previously imposed on these incentives, i.e. those exemptions, will not give for agriculture and fisheries of two very important activities in the City of Vukovar area, no longer exist. Therefore, they also become easier for businesses dealing with agriculture and fisheries, and employ more than 5 employees of which 50% live in the City of Vukovar area. So what do you expect? It should be expected that the new Regional Development Act, first of all in the public debate, determines areas of special state concern, although it will not be called so, but rather regional development on the basis of some clear criteria to avoid injustices, anomalies that are unfair, harmful. And the second is to set up some policies in this law, not just giving, not just donations, to set up some active policies that the government will force, so those who manage, the central government to formulate some policies, and local self-government units in some way to stimulate, to put in a position to use these policies. That's the way. There's no way you're giving someone a release from it, it's been shown so far there's nothing. And that is why it should be stressed that this law except that, therefore, it should rest on clear criteria, not political volunteerism, who has greater influence, who has most at some point, just inserts units of local self-government into one or the other list. It can't be like that. It always goes to the harm of someone else, some other unit, another citizen who lives in another unit of local self-government and, of course, formulate specific policies towards certain regions, individual areas of the Republic of Croatia, which will, along with these necessary reliefs that are only the instruments of these policies and are not the ultimate policies, lead to a truly balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia. For all these reasons and, of course, paying particular attention to the Regional Development Act which should meet these conditions and this requirement, and these expectations of the Club of Representatives of the HNS will support these three draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58687	Comrade Radosh, you obviously spoke very provocatively because you have 14 replicas. Branko Bačić:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58688	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I hope you read the text of your presentation this afternoon, and you'll see how much contradiction there is. In fact, you started your opening statement to the conclusion that Mr. Box said on behalf of the HDZ Club that there was never a worse and harder life in these areas of special state care and that you agree. And you say well, and you find that's probably the reason why these three laws that we're changing are bad today and they didn't succeed in their intention and that they help those areas to live better there and then you're expected to say that you're going to say that we're going to apply these laws and we're going to pass a law that will now bring a number of support in the economy, make it easier for the people who live there to stay, that those who went back and make that space attractive to all those who want to live and work there. But you're actually in favour of a law that, and it's a little bit of what you're saying, a little bit of funding from the state budget is going to be passed, and it's going to be a big deal, and you're going to support it that what's at first is that it's bad that now and that's bad, it's absolutely nothing. And I finally agree with you, you're finishing your part, your exposure, we need to make systematic changes, and because of the horns, I support the Regional Development Act that is now being prepared, which is now under way. Now here's what we've been saying since the first moment. First, the law was to be passed, to lay down measures, and then to put aside these three laws which you think are bad and I think are still better than what the Government is proposing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58689	You forget that we have the Regional Development Act. Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58690	I don't see what I was contradictory about and it's not true that I didn't agree with Mr. Box when he said the situation in the field of special state care was such that it was never worse. I agreed with that finding, I was talking about how to get to the right policy. I really wasn't in any way contradictory. Should the Regional Development Act have been passed before, or this is the way to solve it, first through these laws. This is not a relevant remark from counterpart Bačić, it does not matter. It doesn't matter. At the end of my presentation, I put an emphasis on the principles on which the law should be rested. If an argument is important to you, the procedure for the adoption of this law, or the amendment of these laws, and everything happens during a period of time of several months for the wrong policy, which has been conducted 17 years since the adoption of the Law on Areas of Special State Care, then so do you and I.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58691	Zeljko Sabo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58692	Dear fellow, in your opening part, you said that the laws united the specific Law on the field of special state care that it had not received sufficient results and that good coordination was in the context of harmonisation or support we agree here. But here's maybe one correction or addition however you like. If we had for all these years the control mechanisms of many laws, including those that we are talking about today, especially about how the city of Vukovar is mentioned here, and the Vukovar City Act, for sure, so that these results would be better, but I'm glad, but I'm sorry, maybe not part of the replica, I'm glad that you and the mayor of Vukovar and that here and all the political options are united in order to help the city of Vukovar. But I have to tell you that the city of Vukovar is 75.3 development and it's not as black a picture as anyone wants to say it. If it's a warning of someone or a wish to help the city of Vukovar, then it's exactly this place and I would like to ask and thank you that it is so on behalf of all the Vukovars that we do not use Vukovar for the political tribune alone and sacrifice it for our political interests. But here, just as you came in today, let's see and propose some laws and also improve these laws, which the Law on the City of Vukovar has said since 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58693	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58694	Thank you very much. So here I am referring to Mr Rados' exposure, and I am really surprised that this is how a man sitting in this House seems to have never been in the field of special state concern when he so contradictoryly says that it was a bad policy, that there were no results and that the units in the field of special care had failed. Oh, Mr. Radoshu, I'd be happy to take you to my Pacrac, who was destroyed in this war wind of the Homeland War and just tell you that industry was gone at all. It is precisely this policy that has so far opened eight companies in the Pakrac area in areas of special state care. It employs 400 people but eight companies that came from countries like Italy, Austria and others are employed by 400 people. The same business centre and economy that was destroyed to the ground in 2008 by the best business centre, 2010 the best business zone in Croatia and 2011 the best incubator in the Republic of Croatia. So a respected colleague can be a better example than this example of Pakrac, Lipik, Velika and these are all areas in Požega-Slavon County and these are areas that are as I said destroyed in the Homeland War, and you speak so contradictoryly and your rhetoric is exclusively about politics. And your policy will now stand the heads of all these people and the economy in the Republic of Croatia because you want to destroy what has been good so far and created in difficult weather conditions. You're about to destroy your policy completely and end it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58695	Thank you very much. The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58696	It is quite inappropriate for you to call me personally. You hardly went through much of Croatia than I did. I've been in this business for over 20 years and it's hard to have municipalities in Croatia that I haven't been in, so it's pointless that story you're telling doesn't make any sense. I called on the HDZ Club's representative to be established, and I agreed with that finding. The war was the Republic of Croatia's great effort to rebuild the war on affected areas but the war was no excuse for many to be rich in privatisation and in the very course of war, and that's the real theme. As for Pacrac, if that's what you're saying, then it's a good example, it should be, but then Pacrac and Lipik, if they've come to a higher level of development, then it should help others if that's the case. That would be good for all those who are below 75% of the RH's development index.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58697	Today, Shaw's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58698	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your presentation, you emphasized that there are often times withdrawing certain funds without quality criteria or insufficient quality. This could absolutely agree with you. We know that about these materials the only criterion is this synthetic indicator of development. However, I personally believe that certain specificities relating to the expenditure side of the budget of individual local communities should also be incorporated into the criteria. Not the same are not the same expenditure in one heterogeneous and per national and per... composition of a local community or in one homogeneous environment starting with kindergartens so I don't know the objects of sacraln where in 6 villages you have 16 sacral objects and 16 cemeteries in different locations and where almost no document from local self-government comes out in only one language but bilingually, and often works peace in the house and trilingually and these are additional costs. Furthermore, now under the cost of democracy and in a small municipality of 4.5 thousand residents of three professional deputy chiefs who carry 8 to 9% of the original revenues of the budget. Therefore, all these can be agreed on but I think it should be noted that these are specific expenditures and taken into account. I have one more sentence to say, looking at these synthetic indicators, unfortunately, it can be realized that the city of Osijek as the headquarters of Eastern Slavonia by development is somewhere on 103 or 4th place, so you can guess where the other local self-government is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58699	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58700	I agree with you that it would be good to set up with this as you call it a synthetic development index some specific criteria that would show the real needs of individual units of local self-government or individual areas of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sure it won't be easy. You should try to set such criteria. But the development index is a synthetic indicator but it is in itself better than that you have no criteria of local self-government in certain groups depending on political relations, influence, lobbying etc. Because it causes injustice to other units of local self-government that didn't do it. It is the same situation with the announcement of municipalities and cities, depending on the political influences of lobbying etc. Some of the municipalities exist in the city, and some of the others remain in the community it can't be that way. So I agree with you, in any case, that it should try to find some essential criteria that affect certain areas of the Republic of Croatia and that efforts should be made to make sure that this is indeed in the future law on regional development of the Republic of Croatia. If one municipality receiving support from the state budget has three professional deputy mayors, it is not in the citizens' interest and it is not the purpose of spending public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58701	Branko's replica box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58702	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well you were right at the beginning when you said it was a provocative act of expression and giving away the benefits of blurry etc. Donating, eliminating benefits, fogging, etc. Did, too, a colleague of Rados mention demographic policy, or Vrtića. That it is a real blurry evidence has recently been passed by the Preschool Education Act on the basis of which units of local self-government are obliged to organise the transport of children to kindergarten. Since the budget of the local self-government units is now being prepared, so I have been doing a calculation of how much it will cost me at the monthly level of transportation and of the same children to kindergarten. And that amount to you, Mr. Radosh, is 108,000 kuna per month. 108 thousand kuna on the monthly level. 4 settlements, 516 square kilometers. From which source should I settle it, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58703	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58704	A fellow Box I was talking about giving because it's a form of donation and it's without the criteria and the donation of someone else's, when you donate, you can donate yours. Public money isn't your money. Public money is the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and no one can donate it lightly. And it's even worse when the policies are clouded and responsible for some of the policies that have been led. If there is no responsibility, we will never come to the right solution. If using those expressions is telling the truth, provoking, then I must be provoked.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58705	Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58706	An esteemed colleague in this report, or debate, has pointed out a few things, I would mention two of them. First of all, you said, of course, it's always hard to put an end to the support and right to the subsidies that someone gets, it's a lot easier when someone learns about it. But the question is, what's this about? We'd all like to be as poor as we can and only receive resources and support to live on it as much as possible. We need to turn to real resources and outside still... which we should get out of this poverty as soon as possible, not to say poverty, to be rich and to help others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It'd be simpler. Why such a mental circuit because I think it's been like this for eight years and now we'd all like it to be as far away as possible. And this is then related to the number and efficiency of the local units that you mentioned in a way that prevents local units and what is now in the current Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Law on the Financing of Local Units, so that they can combine certain activities and contents where they would be much more efficient. Because we want to be as effective as possible, as long as we live on, I can tell someone else's hump openly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58707	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58708	Dear fellow Rados, I enjoy the morals of the HNS MPs of what is worth, should or may be discussed, which subject is to be laughed at. You have devoted one part of your presentation to what is being discussed, which is not discussed, which was good in the debates, which was not good in the debates. And what's best about the subject, you probably know me other MPs don't know how to step up politically. I'm going to propose to the Labour Representatives' Club that we consult with one of the CNS representatives before the debate. You said you should. I'm replicating Mr. Radosh, he's talking about it. [[Intruder: ZGREBEC: Col. Vukšić, please.]] Why? [[Intruder: ZGREBEC: Replicate but don't do it that way, please.]] He underestimated all parliamentary deputies by sharing lessons that should be discussed in the parliament. I'm just answering that we're gonna consult. And you were talking about establishing criteria for who, the opposition?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58709	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58710	My colleague Vuksic, I didn't moralize anything, I didn't give anyone a lesson from it, it doesn't benefit much. I was just being practical and said that if you're talking about a topic then that topic needs to be considered from all points of view so that an appropriate decision can be made. And not always say the same, no matter what it's about, and that's one demagogy that might bring you some results. But that's not how public policy should be conducted. When it comes to areas of special state concern or undeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia, the issue of the number of units of local self-government is entirely relevant. That's what I said, and that's what I'm staying on. As far as consulting at the HNS Club is concerned, it's not a good idea. We would consult and provide but it wouldn't do you any good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58711	Ivan Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58712	I would also like to replicate Mr. Radosh's presentation, although he himself did not mention me, but in several of his steps I agree that I was not in line with the proclaimed topics of the agenda. But as far as the way of the debate and the right to debate and the freedom to touch the current issues, I leave to myself as a parliamentary representative. When it comes to regional, decentralisation and regionalisation of Croatia, I am not approaching this problem with any pre-arranged solutions, nor am I about creating new metropolises, but for all cities to develop autonomously, freely, but that we must find common language when it comes to these programme projects for a particular region, that we must be unique here and that our regions become election units. That's what I stand for, and I think that's what I'm right to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58713	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58714	Thank you very much. Dear Radoš, I trust you that you have probably been in all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, just believe me, it is not the same for me to be on a one-day visit and live my whole life and work if you have a chance to work in these areas. But I'll look back on two of your comments relating directly to this law, which is what I quote nonsense and irresponsible behavior was a sales tax in acquittal from real estate tax. Well, gentlemen, MPs and MPs from the SDP, you're obviously on the verge of speaking nonsense and acting irresponsiblely because we just got your amendment that's talking about it...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58715	My colleague Novak, the replica is not SDP, but Radosha's colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58716	And the second part refers to the fees for kindergartens and nurserys. Well, I hope so, I hope that you agree that there should have been a fee, that there should have been compensation paid for kindergartens and nurseryes and that it should have been in the future. But that law has been in force for two years, why we didn't respect it, because I think we all agree that the implementation of that provision would be beneficial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58717	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58718	My colleague Novak, well I actually live in the area, should live on PPDS because every area of the Republic of Croatia should be PPDS. That's by itself understood. I can't live in more places, live in one city. Being in local self-government units all over Croatia is in favour of having insight into how to live there, I have not said anything more than that. That they're nonsense about the real estate tax, it's written in the light of this law that needs to be trusted. So in the IRS, Osijek was a relief, so the total relief of all possible traffic on that basis was 2174 kuna. In the area of the Tax Administration Slavonski Brod 1808 Kuna, Požega 1938, Bjelovar 1168 and Sisak will particularly interest you, 2279. Isn't that pointless? So you had one provision that was in the law difficult in the area of therefore a tax administration of 2000 kuna, so that provision is clearly a wrong provision. And as far as kindergarten is concerned, I agree with you and I said it was one of the better, more meaningful measures, but obviously there was no money in the state budget to implement this measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58719	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58720	Thank you very much. My colleague Radoš, you pointed to the rate of the development index as someone said a synthetic indicator of the development of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. But what I must point out is that when we also had a debate on the division of the NUC of the Republic of Croatia, all of Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem have 35% of the EU's GDP, and the city of Zagreb has 120% of the EU's GDP average. Now we are in the same statistical region, so Zagreb with 120% of GDP and Slavonia, the whole of Slavonia and Baranja with 35%. We pointed to a problem which will be created by this accommodation of five Slavonian counties in the community with Zagreb, Varazdin and others. But here, we have this time rate or index of development of the Republic of Croatia as some indicator. So there is a problem in the creation of a new Regional Development Act, which is in preparation and which I hope only, given the words and prime ministers at the beginning of the mandate, will point out and extort exactly the numerous municipalities in Slavonia and Baranja, which are one and the other, and the index of development or underdevelopment and on the average of GDP compared to the rest of the Republic of Croatia significantly below. But what I particularly wanted to point out is your word that the Ministry of Regional Development's obligation to ensure the cost of child's stay in kindergartens and nurseryes could not be paid because there was no money. So what's the big argument because there wasn't any money in that government or this government? And they'll wonder who's to blame. Answer me who's to blame.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58721	Thank you. Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58722	Kola Grubišić, therefore this law to be passed, the Regional Development Act should have the content of specific policies that are guided towards specific regions and Slavonia and Baranja deserve a special policy. In that part, the law should be a kind of strategic oversecure that determines what is the general policy of all the other bodies of this country and the general policy, therefore, towards Slavonia and Baranja. This should certainly be as much as I understand agricultural policy, but this law should set it up as some kind of general strategic orientation that would be a orientation for all other responsible in the country that should formulate this policy, from the central state government to the regional and local self-government units. That's the point of it. I, of course, support, expect and will seek to make such provisions in the new Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58723	Since '96. The years have not been secured in any year. That's enough for you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58724	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Radoš, thank you for teaching us how to discuss and discuss. Maybe we're not all the most skilled orators here in this House. We don't know what we'd like to say. But we keep it necessary that we have to problem and highlight the problems of the environment that I come from. I am personally proud that I have repeatedly highlighted the problems of the rural environments they face and believe that they are truly large regardless of what part they come from. But you also spoke of great gifts, donations, etc. Which would give a man the impression that the truck thing is being delivered, that it's being given. And we in local, local self-government units testify on the contrary that more and more burdensome units of local self-government and that there are more and more difficulties and that people are really difficult to function mainly in these rural areas where livestock and agriculture are a fundamental economic activity certainly difficult. And now you're finally telling me, now there's order to be introduced, to make criteria without anyone working on a political key or something like this... But I'm asking you right here from the CNS if you didn't run to your minister, ask and ask if you could do something here in my community, in my community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sure let's be honest about who didn't. But believe me, it's certainly true, and if it's given there, then I'm sure it'll miss it in some other part. Our people would say very simply this all "give us."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58725	Please! Give me some peace! The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58726	Comrade Milinkovic, there is no point in teaching you how to speak, as does not make sense to a colleague of Vuksic, because you speak as you speak, and otherwise I think you do not want to speak. Maybe you can, but you don't want to. When it comes to traffic policy, you're talking about cows, when it comes to nuclear security, you're talking about cows. When it comes to space programs, you talk about cows. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Please be quiet!]] That's your attitude. I don't want to teach you that. But I don't think that this way of discussion in the Croatian Parliament is good. When it comes to something, it should get into that problem so that the problem can be better solved. As far as the truck donations are concerned. Ask those who have less than you and give. Ask them what they think of those trucks and those donations. Therefore, in this procedure should... criteria and some elemental justice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's all I stood up for in my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58727	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58728	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Radoš, you Comrade Rados, you said there was also a blur in some discussions, and I would say that in your debate there was paint or at least an attempt to paint or embellish this bill, we can call it that. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Let your colleague Radoš have what kind of replica he has. Please be nice!]] In spite of this attempt, you cannot rephrase a sentence saying that the expected financial effects of the application of this law to the state budget will be the annual savings of 35 to 40 million kuna. So it's in line with yours to give someone a hand must be taken. Well, here's what looks like the government decided, like that Alan Ford character called Super Hick, decided to take the poor and maybe give some richer ones, and we'll see it from next year's state budget proposal, a colleague of Radosh, who's going to be given these 35, 40 million kunas to the cities and municipalities that are going to be saved in these municipalities. And secondly, perhaps you can explain to us the contradiction you were talking about, which is the question of abolishing tax relief in the payment of real estate taxes, so you mentioned as well here that some tax administrations were charging for, say, £2000 or 1900, £1600. And in the same law a little later, you're saying that the abolition of this tax relief in the purchase of real estate, etc. have an impact on the increase in income of local self-government units and the total increase in these revenues will be €33.5 million. Based on what did you or the Ministry come up with? Based on what? On the one hand, you are saying that this tax should be abolished, because, as you can see from various tax administrations, income from several thousand kunas, and on the other, you are saying that the abolition of that tax will actually result in income increased to local self-government units and to the state budget of 33 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58729	Thank you. Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58730	You, of course, are counting on your colleague Matushic to forget. I absolutely didn't talk about the suspension of the real estate tax making 35 million kunas, nor did I talk about it at all. This is an assessment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So don't talk about anything I didn't talk about. It's your technique where you actually confuse the public and it's blurry. I didn't paint. I may have been plastic, colleague Matusic, so things would be clearer, I called them real names. But if I did paint, I didn't paint the tunnels.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58731	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58732	Thank you. Comrade Radoš, you have well noticed in your debate that there has been a lot of injustice in the implementation of policies towards local self-government units in the PPDS and BPP systems. So that the less developed units actually helped the more developed ones. I'm going to document it with very specific and very concrete data. Among the 320 units of local self-government in the PPDS group and BPP is 80 units of local self-government, so each quarter that is more developed than the average development of Croatia. Also outside the PPDS system there are hundreds of local self-government units that are less developed than the average development of the Republic of Croatia and do not receive state aid. These injustices need to be removed, based on quite objective criteria or compliance with the Regional Development Act, which was passed and the 2010 regulation, so in the HDZ mandate, and it is just amazing to hear that the hypocritical HDZ representatives are now crying over the fate of the local self-government units and deliberately distorting the provisions of this law and the efforts of this Government. So I have to say this. There will be no shocks in the budgets of municipalities and cities because, in this transitional period, up to 1.102015.When the new Regional Development Act comes into force, a special fund will be established to compensate for the reduced resources, i.e. those units that, according to the criteria of the current Regional Development Act, are truly underdeveloped. Nothing's gonna change. They will continue to be helped by the state just as it has helped so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58733	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica, which is good, there's plenty of them. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we have exhausted the vote on the topics discussed today and now we will continue the debate by the representatives' clubs on the draft law amending the Law on the areas of special state care with the final proposal for the law as the debate has begun in all three proposals of the Law. A number of respected colleagues and colleagues are among Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here's an esteemed representative on behalf of the club, we'll wait a little while.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58735	We're going to wait a little while for those who don't care to leave the assembly, and for those of you who stay inside, I'm asking for a little attention to allow a colleague, Novak, to take the stand of his club. Here you go, pal Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58736	Thank you very much. I will begin my debate with a reminder, this year somewhere in the spring I submitted a bill of one of these three laws, the Law on the Area of Special State Care, with the aim of allowing for more favourable legalisation of facilities to residents who were living and living and now in one of these areas that were affected by the Sisak suburban village of Komarevo. The purpose of this was normal for those people who had been through these war injuries, or those settlements that had been more or less devastated due to war destruction, to at least somehow provide them with the possibility of suffering financially. However, there was no hearing, and then we received no one's proposal, but these three laws, in which the proposer says that balanced development is the goal of a balanced development, which is, in fact, a transitional period until the adoption of a new law on regional development. My personal opinion, as well as the opinion of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club, is that this transitional period as indicated here will in fact only make the situation worse. We absolutely support the idea that it should help all those who need help that these are not just areas that are affected by the war, those from the first and second group of the Law on the area of special state concern but we are now coming into a situation that the promoter says now we are going to expand it if not only those areas are affected by difficulties but these are other areas that have not been in war conflicts. And then he says we're expanding the area to which it's going to apply and saving for the state budget is going to be 35 to 40 million kuna. Well, only the illusionists can do David Copperfield and similar that I share a certain amount of money on you more, and now I'm going to end up with more. I think this is really a little contradictory with itself. Simply impossible mission, you cannot settle now at once more municipalities and more cities and claim that, based on such division, you have 35 to 40 million kunas left standing in the assessment of the necessary funds. I have to remind myself that the direct damages, the war damage in these areas, I'm talking primarily about areas of special state care and the city of Vukovar were direct damages somewhere around 140 billion kuna, and I think someone mentioned today that the Republic of Croatia has invested around 40 billion kunas, and that's the difference between cca and something smaller if we say about 100 billion kuna. This difference cannot be compensated with anything unless the funds are invested. So with no beautiful expression, is this something else, but let's change the termologically so let's say it's going to be better. On several occasions, replicas were and many speakers warned that the real estate tax would certainly be a destimulating factor and that the explanation that the applicant stated here was at least questionable. A few colleagues found it appropriate to explain it if some measure didn't give the expected results, then we're going to cancel it. The point is that the measure did not deliver the expected results because it was not enough and not because it was bad. But now we're coming back to a paradox where the promoter finds that these amounts are from 1,800 to 2,000 even 1,168 kunas for Bjelovar up to 2,000 and some kunas for the Sisak area and that these are really negligible amounts. But then, in the final sentence, it concludes that the total amount of increased revenues for local self-government units as well as the state budget from this point 33.5 million kuna alone. Well, there's something wrong with that now, if it's a negligible amount for people, and obviously he hasn't given some results, but then why does the state take it, and apparently it's taking 33.5 million kuna from one country certainly doesn't mean as much as any of these units of local self-government. My colleague Radoš mentioned as much as I think that in an inappropriate way and a provision on kindergartens, help for kindergartens and mangers in areas of special state care. Look, when something doesn't hurt, then you can talk about it in a completely different way than when you're directly concerned. But now I'd ask the opposite question, so I'll say it in a far more appropriate way. What do you think from the aspect of Croatia's Kostajnica population is that kindergarten is the most popular lately view of the purchase of the car of the MUP when, for example, it decided to buy new Toyota instead of Mitsubishi. And the price difference is 230 thousand kuna per piece. So who's crazy about it now? The state on one side of 230 thousand per vehicle gives more and here is sorry to give them for kindergartens. For kindergartens and nurserys. And now we tell the state to take care of that area. In what way? Convincing these people really doesn't make sense to live in these areas because there's no need to live there anyway, it's not, it's peripheral anyway. One part of the colleagues in today's debate was set up in a way, look at Croatia but it's not, we're not going to talk about it now, you know, it's bad there so we won't even talk about it. Let's just turn around where it's good to talk about something else. I'm looking at my colleagues from Istria right now, and I remembered my colleague Cain's argument. I don't mind Istra taking advantage of all her potentials and being well with them. But that doesn't mean that those who unfortunately brought war out and I'm against the constant apostrophe of war. But if we won't appreciate it, and if we won't help these people to do it, it'll end up there with the kids. Because if we're going to lift the kindergartens, if we're going to shut down, if there's no money to take the kids to school, who's going to live downstairs, I think it's illusory. Today, a colleague mentioned that children from school are going to buy a gazelle across the border in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'll tell you another worse example. An even worse example is not to believe that children from Croatia are unfortunately going to school in Bosnia and Herzegovina. To Republika Srpska. Not because it's Republika Srpska now, but it's across the border. So what's our message? And now he says, we're taking care of areas of special state concern. I absolutely agree with this other mountainous area and this when I say special state concerns, I include Vukovar and that story that I don't particularly emphasize it. As for the concerns of this ministry, I have to mention, yesterday we got to our benches to answer my parliamentary question that was asked quite a long time ago, now I don't know exactly the date in which the question is being asked, or I asked it as a representative but the question was referred to by one citizen whether the regulation adopted was provided for in Article 10b(3). The Law on Areas of Special State Care, which would arrange for the return of funds to Croatian defenders and members of their families who bought houses from their own resources in areas of special state care. The deadline for adoption of this Regulation has been 90 days since the entry into force, in other words 2.9.2011, and the deadline for payment of those funds expires on 2 June 2014. And now, watch the answer, the answer is really for anals. In order to produce the regulation in question, it is also necessary to collect materials to determine the fact that Croatian defenders bought apartments and houses owned by the Croatian defenders, how many Croatian defenders bought apartments and houses owned by the state, and how much they spent their own resources on buying apartments. Following this, the state office for renovation and housing in the draft budget for 2014 requested funds for the implementation of this activity. It means only to collect data, not to pay off. At least I'm interpreting it like this. And when will there be a payment? So what we do to these people, I mean, they're really areas of special state concern only by name. What we showed our real concern for these areas. I think I've already mentioned these 100 billion, differences, 100 billion kunas of difference between the amount that was direct damage, war damage and what has been invested so far. Preschool education and education, I think colleague Roksandić mentioned it today, this meeting, this year we made a new commitment to local self-government units in the area. But then we warned with what means, how to implement it. That's none of your business. And this really exists, we are letting it know that there are two Croatians. One of those very urban ones, someone mentioned four big cities and all these others. Well, I don't think that's why we're here, that we should raise our voice against this kind of solution. The real reason why this law is passed is no transitional period is because I welcome the idea of solving it in a quality way because I agree that this law is not good but the real reason for this law being passed here in the introductory section where there is no money in the state budget. That's the only reason, all this rest is blurry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58737	Six replicas have been reported. First honorary vice president of the House, Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58738	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, my colleague Novak had the impression that you were in an argument when you mentioned whether we were going to expand the area so you wouldn't agree. Namely, I would like to start by just saying, the articles of the Constitution which speak about units of local self-government, Article 138: "The state is obliged to help financially weaker units of local self-government in accordance with the law.".. The fact is from the analysis, I'm just sorry, we had one item on the agenda of the collection analysis, i.e. the report, the audit report, the collection analysis in local self-government units where we had certain matter. I'm also sorry that before this law we couldn't get a draft bill, he was in a public debate to discuss regional development here. At that time, we would likely find these laws that were exclusively financial in nature to be clearer to us. However, what I wanted to tell you is that I stand up for it because a particular PPDS today after the passing years have arranged, incomes far greater than many units, municipalities and cities in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia and that they are stripped of the full benefit they now have. What is extremely important and what I don't think should make a difference, and by the Constitution we're all equal, we all have equal rights and opportunities, and I think this way of indexing the development index is a key factor and that we finally have to cut and move. What I still believe is that you, too, would be much clearer to all of us to know whether the development index is in line with certain norms, standards that rule in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58739	The replica matches Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58740	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I had the opportunity to look at the draft law on regional development, but I warned that we now have a transitional period of one year, that the local self-government unit is on good feet, if you stop them from doing business without a problem. If you cut them 20 now, but trust me on all of them and more than that, 20% of their budget revenue will have any problems, let alone those who are all collapsed. The fact is, the whole move, what we mentioned today on several occasions, you don't, you have a man here and there, but you don't have any at all. I don't want to, or I'm an opponent of every little apostrophe of war, but remember that very difficult struggles have been fought there, and now we've brought some administrative methods and government from the state level that this area doesn't have a population at all, that few people who are there to escape it if anyone can, if anyone has any straw of salvation to get out of there. I don't have the conditions for living, just to have some strong will, a love of nature, and go down and live, but what will, where? You don't have a cell phone signal, it's up to your nearest gas station to go over to Bosnia, provided you weren't exactly the one there in some units and they left you down there. If we want it to be an actual part of Croatia, and not only on the cards, then we should include it in Croatia's life, but this law certainly does not contribute to it. Moreover, this law does the opposite of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58741	Second replica, Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58742	Thank you. Dear fellow, first of all, I would like to ask you, after your debate, that as soon as possible, that you become the head of a certain city or municipality or that even in your club, you have the opportunity to ask a city leader, a municipality, a county, because then you would see that they have many things that are defined, primarily efficiency. Now to add back 10-15 years to the value of this support, 10 years of mountain-mounted area how much money has still been invested in these areas and now watch the efficiency of what someone has done with these money then let's say an example of children's kindergarten in Croatia's Kostajnica to monitor a small situation, then first of all, who is to blame. Well, first of all, it's the one who brought his community into such a situation that it's so much in the dubiosis, the minus that he can't pay for anything or even his kindergarten, and then it's a question of why someone should go and help him when he's guilty because you made it. On the other hand, we need to help because these children are not to blame for having done such a dubiosis because there are also a lot of poorer municipalities where proper management, projects, and programmes have not come into such a situation. So the amount of resources that are given to such areas is important and the question is who took advantage of something from it. Someone from that money worked fountains, worked stadiums, and someone was using that to increase their capital investment, to raise their communal standard and other things. So you need to take a look at how these funds have been spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58743	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58744	Thank you very much, first of all, for your good wishes. And here I call upon you, dear colleague, to come a month to live in the Court at my expense, and I will bear all your expenses, since you will not have electricity, most likely there will be no... And you can run the city, so here's what a colleague says. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I believe you would deal with whoever you want down there to make a deal that everyone would leave you with whatever you want. It's one thing to talk from perspective, and I respect every end of our country, and I respect it very much, but you too have a harvest of respect for that end down there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58745	Third replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58746	Dear counterpart Novak, it has already been said several times that there are two Croatians, there may be more, there is one elitist Croatia in which it is normal to buy cars not expensive than 230 000 more expensive than they should have bought and then the minister who says I have nothing to do with it, and for his ministry is, there is nothing to do with it, and the cars are for the ministry, says that these expensive cars did not have the characteristics they were looking for, and they were looking for such characteristics that only that car could be bought, except that they did not draw the tables that should be worse. Look out, £230,000 is a more expensive car, what would that mean for kindergarten in Costa Rica? It says you can't do that to each other, so you can't, you can run a policy where you want to make as little difference between that elitist Croatia and that of Croatia that I trust you in, and I've been in those areas where you really are on the road and when there's no signal and when it's dark, you start to get scared because there's no living soul on the road, there's no lighting, there's nothing. This is Croatia. It is rare to talk about this Croatia as if it wanted to be pushed aside, as if we were almost sorry to go free in the first place, what we needed. Therefore, we also apply this law macheteically, these laws that we are discussing today only contribute to making the largest gap between those who have and those who do not, that is, in a few years' time we will realize that these ends will be more desert than those uninhabited islands on the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58747	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58748	Thank you very much. Well, here's a thank you to colleagues from the HDSSB club who've been working hard, so they even took this data out just as soon as we mention these cars. Toyota was bought, Toyotas were bought for 72.9 million kuna, and Mitsubishi was the price of 40. I think this says 9 or 7 I don't know exactly what it means is that the difference between about 30 and some million kunas, 30 million kunas, with what was initially more expensive, so he made a cheaper offer. That's why he's given the drop, let's say it like that. 132 vehicles were bought so now 132 vehicles times 200000 kuna how much the price difference per vehicle, so not that the kindergarten in Kostanica would flourish, but I believe that in all these areas of special care, the kindergartens would flourish. But I've got to look at another detail that's gotten through the debate like this, and that's the way of life down there. It is now the new Bill on Pension Insurance, and it is said among other things that pensions will be paid to the current account, and only to those who want to, who stress this especially with payment in the post office. Now I ask you to move from Castle to Kostajnica, from Clay to Dvor, whichever move you choose there, find me any mail, find me any office where he can do it. And first of all, consider the population we are talking about. Even then when the Prime Minister says about the recovery, there will be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58749	New replica, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, you and I come from this area and we live these people's lives every day because they come to us. In your debate, you touched almost all segments and what I did not first highlight is a danger to which neither the Ministry of Education, nor the county government, none other than those people living there warn, which is the departure of our high school students to school outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but not to attractive schools, but to school from Dvor and the whole Pounj through former Bosnian Nova, or as it is now called Novigrad because there is cheaper schooling, because they do not pay for transportation to Kostanica which is expensive, let alone to Sisak still. That's what you could talk about. You've touched something else. I want to remind you colleagues and colleagues that we are not this year, i.e. Our Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds or I will say better to the government's office whose jurisdiction we transferred it to. Remember in the spring we all discussed the establishment of this government office that will take care of housing on special state care, and we did not issue this year colleagues and colleagues, not a single solution to encourage young people, to settle in these parts. So far, we have provided free building material for the first real estate that young people settle, help them or restore the house or build a new house. That was a good program. This year, no solution. Such piles stand in the government's office in Zagreb, not issued. No solution has been issued for the donation of houses not only to Croatian defenders, but also to other citizens living in the area of special state care. So I ask you why? Is that a new plan, maybe? Maybe it'll grow out of this new Regional Design Act. Deputy Minister, colleague Novak, we were supposed to, and everyone today in the debate And the opposition said the law was first to be passed and to lay the groundwork. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] No foundation, no house.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58751	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58752	Yes, thank you very much. It was also the answer to Mr Batinic's debate by the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. I don't mind the introduction of order, and we're all for the introduction of order. But then that should be a complete solution. This is now an honest alibi for picking up, this is the right move by Super Hick. I take the weakest ones who can't defend themselves and pour it on those who are the strongest because they have the ability to decide what they want and how they want. And I started in the previous replica, so I'm going to continue and it's about this debate of yours. Not long after the strike, the Prime Minister said we no longer have two hours in this country from any point to any point. Can't we just do who and what? The population in these areas mostly has nothing to do with it, and neither can reach anywhere in two hours. But that's one proof of how we as a state treat this area. Where do they go in two hours and with what and who? Those old people who stayed there first or had a cell phone and had it down the signal don't, if they needed an ambulance, who to call, there's no ambulance to Sisko. That is, I think, and that is another example of how we treat these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58753	A new replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58754	Thank you very much. My colleague Novak, I once told Mrs. Rocksandic how I traveled at night from Cetingrad to Topusko. Try to leave by day once, no houses, no men, 20, 30 kilometers away. Also in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, so-called The soft belly of Croatia remained completely empty, empty completely. Even now, the mails are being lifted. Well, that's terrible. The Ministry of Regional Reasons and the measures taken then went before building houses, to give material for building houses. But you can't see from the house, you can't send kids to school, you can't pay for the bus, you don't have a cell phone signal. You must go to some hill nearest to catch the signal. You don't have a wide-ranging internet, there's nothing. A similar thing with schooling is in Slavonia, children from Gunja go to a high school in Brcko over the bridge, from Slavonski Šamac to the Bosnian Stallion, so what is... This is Republika Srpska. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A kindergarten in Costa, so what's it gonna say to the people of Costa Rica when they see this paradox of competitions for the Mustards and Toyotas of police cars. 42 million I'd say prepaid. It was a similar situation that not now, but also with military trucks, with fire trucks ten and more years ago, and so on. So he's throwing himself out on one side and here, really, like you said, we're peeling that poor naked poor girl to the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58755	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58756	So-called a soft stomach or a dry border which they call down, it's an area. Here I would like not only a colleague but a call to come down but I would like to offer him the same blessing at my expense to come down, to live for a month, to enjoy the benefits of areas which are of special national concern. Let's see how caring the state is about these and those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58757	The last replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, I've been following your debate closely, and I agree with everything. And I was particularly moved by the part where you talked about the way you lived. Because I know this way of life both before and after and after the war, and indeed when this traffic connection is mentioned and these connections and mail there is no speech about the quality of any life. And when you talk about the Komarev, how much sacrifice has been made, not a single attack is too much for that part. And then there's talk of some money trucks being brought in. So please nice, so it's absolutely. And it's particularly surprising when it's said to be children's kindergartens or those little schools, preschools or whatever they call it, now it's not necessary, so what kind of equality is it, the same legality of citizens in our beautiful school that doesn't allow their own, and we're talking about the even development of our country. Of course you mentioned the property of legalization. Well, everyone here heard, we talked a hundred times, that she was too expensive. It's too expensive in every middle. I've spoken countless times about this legalization, that in our part that hasn't felt war, that it's simply when our pensioners, who have cared, worked for years, they want to legalise their facilities, their cottages, etc. They just can't reach it. They sent no hearing, that's the message you were saying. I believe there should be more hearing especially for these areas that have suffered such a great sacrifice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58759	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58760	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague completely. I'm signing everything, but this is my chance to mention another element of great concern for this area of special state concern. Croatian railways are whatever they are, but they are still state-owned. As a parliamentary representative, I have sent a request, a proposal, the administration of the Croatian Railways, i.e. HZ passenger transport to be introduced, to return the evening line that enables students, students and workers working because there is no work down there, working in the area of Sisak and Zagreb. There's no hearing. It's another indicator of how we take care of these areas, of these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58761	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, a respected colleague, Walter Boluncic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58762	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's the truth before you've heard it mentioned in one context that she doesn't have these problems, but she has these problems. There are eight hundred cities or municipalities in Istria that have been in the hill-mounted or state-of-the-art care system, so this problem is bothering us. I would like to start by saying one thing on the technical side because this law here as well as what we've been listening to a few laws, let's say, in particular yesterday on the reorganisation of tax is kind of based on one law that is still in the public debate, which is the law on the regional development of Croatia that has caused a great dissent in the public, and I have the impression that it is trying with some other laws to create one network of solutions that, in the end, this law that I say has not been quite well received could come into force. I am not going to talk about the parts of the regional part of that law that I made yesterday, which we consider inappropriate today in Croatia. I'd like to say this, at first glance, and it was like that, and in the debate, it works that this law honestly wants to make money to whoever's below some average state income, and that's how it's used so-called. one weighting based on some things such as income per capita, unemployment rate, tax income, demographic change or degree of education. As far as at least these parts in Istria are concerned, a lot of these parts have been said by 6 municipalities and 2 cities come into the area to reduce their yields from the initial amount now either 60 or 75%. But unfortunately, I believe that this index used to measure development has serious problems logically within it. The first problem is the next, say, unemployment rate in these parts is relatively small for the simple reason people leave that part. Lanisce, who lost 20% of the population in the special state care system in 10 years. Anyone who goes to school or can go out of that city goes elsewhere and thus, of course, the unemployment rate remains few but the pensioners in those areas. The other thing is not to take into account the difficult conditions in those parts. If you're in a mountain-mounted area, it has road traffic repercusions from very low population density per square mile, which means to you on the other hand that it increases the cost of any transportation or social expenses such as homes, schools, kindergartens. Furthermore, as the majority of these parts remain the elderly population, the need for nursing homes has been increased, for palitative care, and for others who are not taken into account here. Furthermore, there has been a lot of talk here about the fact that money has been given from less developed areas and that it should now stop... but there is the same illogicality. In fact, those who have reached that percentage of the national average of 75 or more have achieved that with these incomes they have received. If you cut them off now, they'll fall again below the level they had before. Also, a lot of these funds at least we have for Istria, for example, within the framework of Buzet, were designed precisely for the purpose that should be in those areas of mountainous and mountainous areas or areas of special state concern. For example, construction of homes for old and powerless 10 million co-financing of accommodation prices in the home, the construction of kindergartens, additional funds for the work of kindergartens because of the needs of breeders, is especially used for the rehabilitation of unclassified roads 13 million kuna. Then, due to low density, each infrastructure procedure lasts more. In Zagreb you can make 100 meters of some pipes you have 2,000 people who connect to it. There you have to have a 2km water pipe to get two houses to have water. So it's used to co-finance water, sewerage for dehydration of mud, to co-finance basic school, to help co-finance living in our old fellow citizens' home, social and, of course, aid in the development of entrepreneurship in these places. These are very significant funds which, among other things, come from that part, and if this law were to be applied, in the first year, out of the 11 million kunas that should be received on the basis of the return would be less than 4 million kunas, and within 2 years somewhere on average about 23 million kunas that would be obtained would no longer be obtained, which means that some places would lose 40% of their budget, which means they couldn't, not that they couldn't have a standard higher than they have now, but could not maintain the standards that they now have with these funds. I think that this index has created a very serious problem logically that you have not taken into account that, apart from the development index, there is difficult work in these areas that I think are clear to all. In this way, we are unacceptable to this, it would be acceptable if the state were to go the other way towards decentralisation and that of those small few percent that all cities could get back, and let's say the county as such might be able to help to a greater extent. However, with the fact that centralisation is an increasing county cannot have the money to support enough in those places that seek support because in the system are mountainous and mountainous areas or in areas of special state concern which will definitely lead to the fall of standards and which someone would have previously mentioned for Croatian opportunities relative to Istria, which is also the most developed region bringing a significant number of their inhabitants into an unfavourable position. We believe that this is the only way to view it unilaterally that the conditions in which it is working and living are not taken into account that these funds should encourage the economy and cultural life of that part and that they need to continue to meet that standard. Especially in Istria, we are sensitive because Istria with its 4 to 5% population has 10 to 12% of the state budget from VAT tax only on tourism which was 7 billion, and in Istria there is 30% more than enough money we have put into the budget that our neighbouring cities deserve to return that part of the money to make it essentially worse in Slovenia under Učka, etc. could live normally. We consider this proposal for a law on mountainous and mountainous areas unacceptable as it does not take into account the real needs and, in essence, with its own intention that I said earlier that a law on regional development of Croatia which has caused a number of poles, looking at both regional structures and which can continue to work cities and counties that are still in public debate, but in some ways the provisions of this law are beginning to slip through a whole series of things from regional, let's say, in particular, in Istria that it is now possible for the tax office to leave and which I tried yesterday to convince that region in which, during this year, since the share of fiscal registers, the smallest number has found some things that were wrong with the law. Instead of serving whom... Maybe for a reward he gets that the tax on the system in Pazin will be abolished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To the fact that the customs had gone, to the fact that he had gone retired, that he had left the trade court, which is the most important thing. So we simply come to the fact that people are moving away from the basic things they need to meet their needs and that they have paid for. Let's face it, they've overpaid what's being taken from them now. So here and here. So to the extent that the money has gone, I think you should return it because we want one even development throughout Croatia, but I'm talking about Istria first. And it's not in our interest to have some parts that are more and some less developed, these are extremely beautiful parts. In Istria, more or less, we all have some and family ties all over Istria. And we think that the grounding of their achieved level of development in this way only with one-sided viewing which should be the basis for the allocation or not the funds is not right at all. So once again, we've been meaning to look at it in some way and try to get the amendments to work this out. However, the setting of the law is such that I believe that it does not allow and tell us personally such a law is not acceptable because I said once again, to some of our cities etc. The budget will be reduced by 40%. It's already started out of these cities, they say Lanisce has 20% lower in 10 years, Grožnjan has 7%, Oprtalj has 14% less inhabitants. Those aren't very small numbers. And they certainly don't leave because they live well. They leave because life is difficult, and they need help staying in those parts and being able to have one standard that suits the 21st century in a social state. I say one of the reasons for going in this direction is decentralisation should be where by returning money to cities and above all the county would give them the opportunity to co-finance their needs. In a way where I don't know 5% just money goes away for all the cities, the county in Croatia except Zagreb, it simply isn't possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58763	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, a respected colleague, Boro Grubisic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58764	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Pulis. Perhaps many of the MPs who are here, I do not know whether some in the previous meeting remember that in negotiations with the European Union, it is agreed that by 2017 to put an end to or cease to exist PPDS, areas of special state care or this category of mountain-mountan areas in the Republic of Croatia. And here we are now discussing everything and every part of the Croatian regions and Croatian regions, the difficulties they are facing, and in fact it is agreed that in 2017, but gradually, so those rights that were for areas of special state care are slowly shrinking in 2011, so 2014 is now and in the end in 2017 should not exist. I guess in these negotiations that by 2017, the index of development of all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia will be evened up or 75% of the development index will be reached. I have a list of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia and I can tell you interesting data, and I pulled interesting data from the 171 units of local self-government that is below 75% of the development index has 58 Slavonian. More than a third. If we look at those units of local self-government that are 100 percent, then above the Croatian average, then there is only one, and that is the city of Osijek. And they have about 100, above 100% of the development index, just one, the city of Osijek all the others are so below. If we look at the first 100 or worst 100, when we start at 50 to 75, so when we start at the worst 100, 43 units of local self-government are from Slavonia and Baranja. Of the 100 worst 43 from Slavonia and Baranja. The explanation that the aim of these amendments to the Law on Areas of Specific State Care is to coordinate the level of tax relief and help local budgets. I would say that the objective of amending these laws is actually to facilitate the budgets of units of local self-government. That would be much better said. So ease, reduce the budgets of local self-government units. If the goal is to save 32 million and 33 million dollars from the Treasury, then I'd say one saying that's exactly in those parts, now there's no Roxandic and Novak, he says, he says, he wouldn't say enough, he doesn't stay. So, neither would Linic enough for his state treasury or the finance minister, so neither remains with the local self-government units. Quite briefly and clearly. It wouldn't stay long enough. Now, what I was saying at the beginning is that out of the 100 to say the worst by the development index, it belongs to the 43 Slavonian municipalities. I can count them, you can confirm them, but they're papers, arguments. So, Caglin, Villavo, Nova Bukovica, Bogdanovci, Draganić, Stara Gradiška, Staro Petrovo selo, Gundinci, Borovo, Suhopolje, Slavonski Šamac, Bosniaks, Sikirevci, Vrbanja, Punislavci, Ladislavci, Velika Kopanica, Gradišče near Župa, is so said on meteorological forecast, Lukač, Crnac, Donja Motičina, Poklačina, Marijanci, Đurdenovac, Brijestova, Popovac, Germans, Pitomača, Gorjani, Prince's vineyards, Koška, Satnica Đakovka, Privlaka, Otok, Nova Kapela, Stari Jankov, Cernik, Rešetari,..., Erdut, Semelci, Omljeljci, Oprisci, Vrpoljepolje, Tovarnik, Lovas and Ivanov. These are 43 municipalities of 100 which are among the worst in the Republic of Croatia according to the development index. What is prescribed by this law? That citizens who want to settle permanently in the PPDS are lifted from the relief of non-payment of real estate taxes and says that for some for 2012 it is 32-33 million kuna. That relief is lifted to make life worse for them. At the same time, the requirements for housing reconstruction in the PPDS stand intact and intact in the State Office for Reconstruction. They ask me many by email, by cell phone, etc., when mine will be solved, can Boro intervene to make my turn. I can't intervene anything because it all stands. What do you tell them, how do you help them? Only to ask the Ministry of Regional Development and the Minister of Greece when it will be that and that order so that I can fulfill my civic or parliamentary duty as a national representative to convey his question to the minister. And so I could ask 100 questions and be the champion of the Parliament in asking questions just like that. About Vukovar. A little Mr. Sabo and I were talking in the hallway, but it's a shame that we're breaking spears around things like these these days. It's unfortunate that we're trying to break a political spear through Vukovar, and we know well that the late President Tudjman is still in '97. The year said this was a chance to rebuild Vukovar, this is a chance to give a new wind in the back of Vukovar. What have we done with it? I'm not, I'm not politicizing with the name of the late president or I'm not even singing praises here, but the words that are remembered are from the current perspective of the situation in Vukovar. Each county has promised one at a time to say capital facility to build in Vukovar and my Brodska. Looks like it's about high school in Vukovar, I think we've done it, but a lot of them haven't. There were 48 facilities in the town of Vukovar, 48 or 48 objects in the city of Vukovar. You can't at PPDS say here we built you a house, now come back and live there. And of what? You can't eat the house, you can't eat every day is a house. You can't send kids to school if there's no school, if you don't work anywhere. If it's a living wasteland like your colleagues used to say in Banovina, sometimes the cattle end, sometimes a rich end I have to say today is a dead letter on paper. The municipalities of Dvor, Kostanica, here is the kindergarten we heard about, so I would wonder if we have humanity in us as representatives, as people, we don't have to be representatives, really when people are watching TV in that, if they have signals in Costa Rica because they catch Republika Srpska RPTPC, on Cyrillic Radio TV Republika Srpska and interferes with the Croatian signal. Really, then people wonder why our kindergarten in Kostavnica doesn't have any money and can't work. Do you transfer only to the municipality of Croatia Kostanica, she is the owner, founder of kindergartens in Kostajnica, so are we in the feudal age so that the state cannot get involved in the territory of Croatia Kostajnica and the obligation of Croatia Kostajnica as a city. Well, it's not Sabine feed Vukovar, it's nobody's feed or Tisno or I don't know who or Milas's Vinkovci, well it's not mayor, it's gonna be, come on. But I mean, the state has an instrument to change that. So here he says that because of the lack of money, this instrument helps the work and establishment of kindergartens on PPDS didn't come to life, so people wonder how there's money to overburden both fire trucks and military vehicles, but boos and police cars these new ones that have arrived, these Toyotas do. Nothing I can say by law that we will make life worse or worse for people who still live there, still in the hope of living because they love first and foremost the area where they were born and suffer and have a hard time living, but live. Maybe they didn't learn better, so they say I live here, and I have a girlfriend who lives in the Court of the Union. I'm not going anywhere from here. I'm offering him a home to pay him, no, I'm not going anywhere, I'm going here in the field as they say. He's not going anywhere. We have not passed a new Law on Regional Development, we have not systematically systemized these municipalities and by no system, by any principle, we have no data now to provide for a new law to help whom this should help, as Germany helps the Solidarity Pact, not on stability, the Stability Pact of the East Germany, which it joined in 1990 after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the differences in all segments of GDP and others between the West, once the former West Germany and East Germany. It was sometimes called the Solidarity Fund in Yugoslavia, so four republics assisted the other two republics and three republics and one province to catch up with the level of development. You know that Croatia has been spending a lot of money on the so-called the solidarity fund. We're not thinking about it today. I'm not saying it's because it's some kind of communist-socialist act. But we as the people who have been chosen here from all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should also think about it. But we should also think about when we made a decision and when the government decided on two regions that Slavonia would continue to be in the same statistical region with Zagreb, Varazdin and others if it remained this way for 10 years, and there would be even more municipalities in Slavonia that would enter this top 100 would say so. Not top ten, but top HUNDRED. There will be no 43 of them, there will be 70 of them because there is no and disappears the drive that goes towards Zagreb, which could write programs and because municipalities do not have the financial powers to write projects, nor does anyone write financial ones to them. And in Zagreb there is, there is. And they are in the same relationship when they run projects towards the EU of Slavonian municipalities and Zagreb because they are in the same region. No, no, no. So there's a lot more to talk about. The people on the ground are asking questions, and in fact I have to go back to that provision and negotiations with the EU when it is actually agreed and decided that in 2017, there are no more areas than special state concerns. Is there any other way, not to say the around which Europe will approve, to say that it is okay, you have a really large number of municipalities and parts that are underdeveloped, which have GDP relative to the European average three times smaller than the whole of Slavonia and Baranja, so there will be ways to help them or help them. That's what to think about. That's why there's and there's this new Regional Development Act, but I'm afraid it'll come too late, that the debate takes too long and that guidelines like these two years for this coalition government of Kukuriku coalition will actually be too late because many of the municipalities will be on their knees after and this taking of this church, I'd say the churches of this 30 million that they've been talking about. That is why the HDSSB club, and not only because of this last sentence, but also because of what I said at first, will be against such a legal proposal even though it is envisaged by the government, the government of that Adriatica Kosor and the EU that this must be done, that this is the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58765	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Zeljko Sabo will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58766	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister. Two MPs and five MPs and respect for you. Seven, I counted wrong. I'll talk and let me be here and don't mind me if I mix and maybe interfere with the duties of parliamentary deputies and maybe even touch the situation and the city of Vukovar which we have before the vote many through our clubs and spoken as mayor. And for what Croatia and what Croatia we first of all, I mean when we speak all the laws, everyone who spoke you were to say so by listening to me as I listened, I could say that you were all right. But what kind of Croatia do we want in principle? That the Croatian state is decentralisation not only in the legal sense but also in the financial sense. The Croatian state, it seems to me, was some, that until recently I was a vice president of cities then I have one piece of information that in financial terms the Croatian state was somewhere around 12% of the income, meaning the entire state, that it went to local self-government. It's 8% in Greece. And we wanted to get close to 20%, so God forbid we make it and go more, to some other European countries, and so in Denmark, it seems to me that 42% of the income of the Danish state belongs to local self-government. And then it would be easy for us if we who are somewhere on local level to develop our cities, our municipalities and today we would not talk about the cause, these laws, all of what we have today through these three laws, so not to say not only three, but basically all of us are simply going, all the laws in principle have caused a lack of financial resources in our Croatian country that have been found after I would say 22 years, here is 21 years of our loneliness and the creation of the Croatian state. And I'd say that we're through all these laws that we're talking about today that are laws, I'll call them the laws of solidarity. We've heard here that some countries have supported regions, here and there, and so these laws are the laws of solidarity. This could be said as it was mentioned that in 97 C.E., our first President Franjo Tudjman called on the counties to be solidarity for those who can help in the construction of the city of Vukovar. And in 2009, when I saw 45 million kunas of the original income of the city of Vukovar when I found 33 million kunas of debt I continued with that solidarity of my late president to remind those who could help Vukovar to continue with this solidarity. At that time, I was called by some to be a beggar, to beg or so, but in any case, there are always good people in this solidarity, and I thank all those who have continued with this solidarity for the city of Vukovar. Now that we're 22 years old, which is the real cause of all this, we've come here with the state budget and the financial opportunities of our country. In those 22 years since the war, since our borrowing, I would say unwisely whether in a financial sense, as a village of 22 years, a long period of time to be able to analyze in some way or I would now analyse the whole situation in the Croatian state that has led to us today having to sort of come to this solidarity in some reasonable form or opportunity of the Croatian state. Because we still have to keep the state budget because of everything we're in right now, and that's paying back, and we can't give. The state can't give as much as we're all looking for or in Vukovar because it has to give to banks, it has to pay back debts, and that's all something before us. And now we've come here where we are and there's a real cause, all of our discussions. We said that we expect 2014 GDP growth, which will certainly facilitate this difficult situation in some way and in any case through these three laws, I will tell you that and the city of Vukovar will have less than three million kuna in its budget, but we will solidarity with the entire Croatian state, with the law and accept that through these laws, when we win, we will certainly have income of three to four million less in our budget, because the city of Vukovar, and now you see, unfortunately, it would be better if it were 69.8%, not 74.9% of the rate of development than that of 75.3 feet of development, for that 0.3% because we have crossed 75% of development, we will do it but we can't change and adapt. Now I could give the amendment to be 76% and save or only give the amendment to the town of Vukovar, so let's see if we can all get our hands on some projects, we'll ask for money from European funds, and I certainly expect from the Ministry of Regional Development and Integration and the Ministry's project to be partners in any case evenly represented, especially the city of Vukovar. Surely, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on areas of special state care regulates state budget assistance with a degree of development of local self-government units according to the Index of Development. There is 75% and up to 75% of all remain intact and they all over 75% simply so and there is now little done as some rich areas that have remained in the areas of special state care or in some other areas have been mentioned. If only now, given that there's a little of us and I don't owe it. If you refer only to the article of the law, the Law on Special Areas of State Care on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I ask you to support this amendment. Article 21 provides for the payment of real estate tax. In the town of Vukovar, we have a situation that many people, citizens of the town of Vukovar, users of apartments or probably APN real estate that are not yet regrettable, what Mr Grubisic was saying was still in order to buy apartments where they lived before and before the war and now they would now, if that law, Article 21, if it were applied, they should, unlike maybe 1500 who bought apartments, those other 1500 should pay taxes because they buy all their apartments and are exactly the amendment that you received today in the name of the SDP Club, regulates and releases those people from buying that apartment from the housing regulation that they would be exempt from paying taxes. Anyway, speaking in Vukovar, I'm glad there's been a lot of talk here, and what I said is going to be an opportunity for gentlemen next year in the budget for the state budget, and I'd love to have a lot of MPs and political parties, but even when we come to fight for that state budget, then let's forget about everyone pulling in. If we were to get into this situation if this Vukovar is how many people experience it or at least speak it, and if we said, let's go to Vukovar, let's see how much we're going to separate to Vukovar, then what's left of us. And then it would show the right thing and that love for Vukovar, which many, many Vukovars have listened to for years, but within opportunities through the Vukovar City Act, I thank the Ministry and the Deputy Prime Minister and the entire government for keeping all these benefits through the Vukovar City Act, which made it possible for the development of the city of Vukovar, that there was no question today in Vukovar that there was no question of what we would have had today in Vukovar if there was no such law and I certainly expect 2014 through the EU funds where even the businessmen would also have the opportunity to apply their economic projects through the return of up to 50% for the return of their investments to the new economic recovery of the city of Vukovar, so I would say beyond in our certainly Republic. What is important is to point out that despite all the problems we are, Mr. Milos Vukovars, but here we do not arrive and meet, we shake hands, you were my commander in the war, you may be invited to testify that I was a Croatian defender in Vukovar soon. But in any case, the town of Vukovar, as one single city, is watching out for one single city in the world scholarships all its students. All the students of the city of Vukovar in the last three years who have applied for a scholarship receive the scholarship. The town of Vukovar allows transport to two counties for students and for students it is for Vukovar-Srijemska and Osijek-Baranja County. As we will now in this year, we will see but in any case the quality of investment in young people is primarily investment in their development, education, and I hope that through the improvement of our Croatian state and economic recovery, we will come to these jobs to keep these young people not only in Vukovar, in every part of our Croatia, because I don't think anyone should doubt that we all love our country and that we don't want to stay in it. On that behalf, on behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Deputy Minister, along with this amendment that I have explained, the SDP Club will accept all these three laws and I thank you for staying here to listen to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58767	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague, Tomislav Klaric, signed up. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And Marijan Škurić, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58768	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy. So here I really have to make certain demands or things about this bill, because as mayor, it has the status of mountain-mountan areas. First of all, I must state that here we must all hear the argument that is still being taken for this now status that is defined that we must submit our city budget and the budget of all other colleagues who will appear after this debate to see what and how they have to plan. And planning is very important. We have the resources that I have to put in maximum... our local administrations, self-government, regional self-government, and what we said today must be extremely effective in that. It's been almost 20 years since the Homeland War, 10 years, like the status of mountain-mounted areas, and we have to draw a line that we've done with these resources. We need to be really in that part of the lot of money has gone away, which we have done now we need to really define by defining a new law on regional development to see what that argument is that we can make a good redistribution of funds. Of course, we must solidarity ourselves in a way that those who have more must help those who need it to put one regional development at the benefit of all our citizens. In order to mention, however, what is important in that part that this indexation is defined and based on these decisions and proposals by these laws is not good for me because the indexation was defined three years ago and the indicators that entered that indexation were primarily the average income per capital are again indicators which were year to two years ago. Whether it's good or not, I don't think it is, but we don't have any other indicators right now, but I'm warning you that in future indexing and determining the development potential of individual cities and municipalities we're keeping an account of it. Because now that part of the indexation includes average income per capital, average original income per capital, average unemployment rate, population movement, insight into part of the educated population,... 15 to 65 years old. Is that all it takes? What exactly is the weighting and indicators that should be the emphasis that the overall indexation is brought into this should be very well thought out and done so at a broader debate. Of course, what I would also like to emphasise is that these funds that will be excluded and won in the state budget should not be part of the general budget. let those funds go to the settlement fund so that from that fund, according to arguments and to those who need to be given funds for its development. That's what you would really require and that's what we who are now going to get less funds from that base can only ask that next year those funds from the alignment be adequately shared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58769	Thank you. Here's the deputy minister. For a pay phone, you have to come to the pay phone if you're going to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to answer, but this is the last thing a fellow respected representative Skvaric mentioned. I have to look around. So the model of fiscal alignment, that immediately after the new year, together with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, we will prepare a new model of fiscal alignment and part of these funds will end up in this model and this model will be based on an assessment of the fiscal capacities of the local self-government unit and a deviation from the national average. So we think we're going to have really one quality model that will really help those who need real help. That's all, and I thank everyone else for the comments and for staying this long. We'll take into account a lot of things when we're doing new in the... development index, when we go out with the final categorization it's going to be on the latest data so that these data that we have now aren't the last ones that I have here, even though I have the latest data for the last three years then it's going to be the final list of areas that are entering the index... and the current Regional Development Act has made it possible for all the parameters that we need are in the law. There is no need for a new law on regional development because the existing law gives us both methodology and classification so that it does not exist. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58771	I thank Deputy Pugliz, and I thank all the colleagues and colleagues who participated in the debate. Now, of course, we'll stop working. We will continue on Tuesday to discuss the proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. Thank you and good-bye. Final draft law amending the Law on areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 517. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club and the SDSS Representatives' Club. I ask that Jaksu Puljiz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds come for a pay phone and declare the amendments submitted. First of all, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, as referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58773	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58774	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 1 to Article 6. A club representing an independent democratic Serb party.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58775	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58776	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58777	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58778	Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58779	The reason is that the proposed amendment proposes to maintain a relief in the payment of real estate tax for all users of the Housing Management Programme, including users outside the area of special state care, since the law applies only to the areas of the specific state care, the amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58780	Please, who's going on behalf of the proposer? Mile Horvat, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58781	So we, like the SDP, wanted with this amendment, but we have tabled an amendment to Article 6 of this law. So we wanted to free ourselves from paying taxes on real estate of former tenants in the status of protected tenants who had not yet had a chance to buy an apartment, because then in the future they would come, they would be brought into an unequal position compared to those who had the opportunity to do so, so they were tax-free. So this SDP proposal of yours has been consummated by this proposal, and we will withdraw our amendment. However, I must warn that you, as a proposing, should then correct Article 6 because it is in one part contradictory of this SDP amendment and especially in the section relating to the pre-exclusive period of 31.12.2013. Take a look at Article 6 and you will see that it should be corrected in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-22-0.u58782	So the amendment was withdrawn? Okay. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 78 votes in favour and 21 against this law.
