ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43757	Good afternoon, Mr. President, gentlemen of Parliament and MPs before us today we have a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity which we are essentially doing a quick practical amendment is based, in its starting point there is a Law on Legalisation. We also want to enable citizens to be able to carry out tourism activities at this stage of legalisation. Therefore, all those who have the facilities and have no evidence of the use of the building so that they can result in a temporary solution on the basis of which they will be able to provide a accommodation service provided that they have submitted a request for legalisation. It shall be made possible for hosts who have applied for the launch of a legal process illegally built less demanding buildings. It is buildings whose gross surface is no larger than 400 square meters. They shall be allowed to carry out catering activities in some of the types of catering facility until the implementation of the solution which will be decided on the request for a maximum period of 31 December 2016. It also enables hosts, all craftsmen, cooperatives, merchants, individuals, companies to carry out catering activities of the hospitality facilities of the type of rooms, apartments and studio apartments in the buildings of residential use, owned by them. By issuing the same temporary solution, until 31 December 2016 at the longest. Until when they need to re-purpose the living room into a business space. In this way, it is possible for all those who have submitted the application for legalisation, given that the request has an extremely large and resolutional ministry, the Ministry of Construction estimates that it will take about 2 to 3 years to process all these requirements. It shall be possible to issue a temporary solution with a specified time limit and a mechanism of automation has been established where, in the event of a positive settlement of the legalisation requirements, the temporary solution issued becomes permanent, otherwise, if the legalisation request is negative and the automaticism ceases to be a valid solution. Furthermore, we sought to facilitate the owners, i.e. the home service providers or the property owned by a spouse, relatives in a straight line or family member with whom the renter lives in a joint household. It is also possible to come up with a solution to both spouses, or one or more family members living in a joint household, provided that the maximum total accommodation capacity established by a given solution, or prescribed by law, is never exceeded. It's about 10 rooms and 20 beds. Furthermore, it is possible to continue the provision of catering services to the spouse, relative, straight line. A member of a family who lives in a joint household with a tenant, with the issue of a new authorisation solution for the provision of catering services but without establishing all the conditions that are otherwise necessary for the issue of such a solution. It is very simple this way if simple life is such that there are both unwanted consequences and deaths and diseases of the provider of these services and in that case the members of that household are allowed to continue their catering activities uninterrupted. This Proposal also deletes the obligation to demonstrate the business capacity of the tenants. It was a procedure where, for example, the opening of the company’s crafts and other forms of legal persons shall not require the outcome of that authorisation. And only the outcome of this business ability took 30 days. It is also possible for healthcare institutions, special hospitals to carry out catering activities and not to apply the provisions of the law in the event that the employees of one institution provide food and accommodation services to users of another social care institution. What I would also like to draw attention to is that it is about urgent changes and that this same House of Restaurants Act is also being prepared and regular amendments to this Law on the fall session of the Parliament. And we have estimated that it is necessary to go through these changes in order for service providers, i.e. citizens, who have submitted legal requirements in a legal way, to get a solution and to deal with activities legally. The amendment of the Legislative Committee, which is of a technical or nomotechnical nature, was also adopted on behalf of the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43758	Thank you very much, Minister. Whether or not the rapporteurs of the board's working bodies, yes. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43759	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. At its 21st session held on 13 June this year, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on host activities under Article 69. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. On behalf of the legislator, Mr Darko Lorencin gave an introductory clarification to the proposed amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act. Starting with the importance of tourism as currently the most prospective branch of the Croatian Economy, the Ministry of Tourism proposed, the government adopted and delivered the Croatian Assembly to declare the urgent amendment and addition of the Law on Food Activity in order to further remove administrative barriers and restrictions on the development of hospitality, i.e. further successful development of domestic tourism and investment in this sector, immediately before the start of the high season. Since you have heard what are the key amendments proposed by this proposal and that you have also been systematiced by this report, I will not repeat them. As regards the reasons, it should be pointed out that the time limit on the validity of the solution covered by the draft of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Arrangement on the duration of the legalisation process of the facilities according to the requirements to be submitted by the end of June of this year. In fact, if the legalisation process were to be ended by a powerful positive solution, then the temporary solutions for carrying out the catering activity issued under the provisions of this law would become automaticism, and if the legalisation solution were negative, then the solutions issued under this law would be abolished. It is also proposed to equalise entrepreneurs in rights and obligations when it comes to the prescribed conditions that must be met in the run-up of business ventures and to allow health institutions, special hospitals to offer their catering facilities to the market. There is also the predominance of the neglected co-ownership situations over the facilities in which the catering activity is carried out, as well as the issue of uninterrupted activities in joint households. All present board members welcomed the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism to enable these new legal solutions to develop their catering activities in a smooth manner, especially in islands where the issue of legalisation of built catering facilities is very pronounced. There is no reason why the catering activity should not be allowed in legalisation facilities until the procedure has been terminated because, first of all, the competent authorities of local and regional self-government, and not the applicants themselves, who cannot influence that deadline, are primarily responsible for this administrative procedure. The Committee on Tourism and on this occasion demonstrates its intention to support quality and constructive legislative initiatives and proposals to facilitate the achievement of the common objective, which is to increase the number of quality investment projects in tourism, simplify complicated procedures when they are implemented and launch new and content-quality business ventures in order to achieve greater social benefits from tourism activity and reduce the seasonality of Croatian tourism. These measures curb the area of the grey economy, allow for an increase in quality capacities in the catering sector, their registration and smooth operation until the legalisation process of the buildings is completed, an increase in the number of jobs, diversification of offers, as well as an increase in the number of registered guests and real-time traffic. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted the conclusion that it proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43760	Thank you, Your Honor. Do other representatives of the working bodies want to take part in the report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP Club of Croatia and the respected representative Lidija Bagaric. Here's to the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43761	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here are the amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act, which is the main objective of removing obstacles and barriers to the easier implementation of this activity, and that this happens in an emergency procedure before this tourist season. This primarily refers to the known problem of the inability to host tourists legally in facilities that do not have a useful permit. The current legalisation call responded to a large number of property owners and estimated to total around 200,000 applications. Since their resolution will take a somewhat longer period, all these facilities would remain unused or would function in a gray zone, even in several future seasons. Certainly, these same facilities would get that legalisation, so for this reason these amendments and additions want them to be allowed to function legally even before obtaining that solution, but of course only on condition that a legalisation request is submitted. The fact is, renters don't want to work in the gray zone, but they just didn't have a choice, and in this way they're allowed to do legal business. As evidence, a large number of requests have already been announced. It is said to be about 500 requirements in Zadar, about 700 requirements in Split, which, pending these amendments and the law, want to legalise their business. The absurd situation occurred last year during an analysis of the tourist season when tourist communities recorded 3.7 million overnight stays more than recorded in the State Statistics Institute. At the time, it was even accused the tourism minister of manipulating the data, pumping it to the weekends just to show his best performance. True, those reports were filed by the so-called so-called The homeowners, i.e. the property owners who reported their friends and relatives to the tourist communities. Often, however, tourists who regularly paid for their accommodation were hiding behind these friends and relatives, but simply the owners could not legally report them. Now, of course, it will be possible. In addition to those amendments and additions above, it is intended to allow hosts who have submitted a request for the initiation of the legal procedure... objects of gross surface up to 400 m2. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such facilities will allow catering activities to be carried out until the implementation of the solution and for the longest time until 31 December 2016. It comes out to both craftsmen, cooperatives, merchants and companies who are owners of real estate housing, who want to place their capacities in the function of tourism. In not so long ago, the construction of apartments for the market was simply booming and we witnessed the wealth of individuals almost overnight. This has prompted a number of investors to turn to the job, but also large credits. However, due to the major crisis in the real estate market, housing has long failed to sell and stand as dead capital, and on the other hand the bank is exerting great pressure and are simply ruthless. It is said that because of the unsold newly built apartments in the blockade, more than 7 billion kuna. And in that situation, that's the stalemate no one wins. Under the existing law, tourists can be hosted in facilities of business, but not residential purposes. This is why it wants to meet in a way that if a re-purpose procedure is launched, the purpose of the facilities will not be an obstacle to legal renting to tourists. Furthermore, a major problem in practice was the issuing of a solution to only one spouse, or family member, so that in cases of individual property by an individual in a family capacity they could not legally place on the market. As a result, it is proposed that a solution can be issued to one or more family members and to enable the provision of real estate services owned by a spouse or family member who lives in the same household. It also reduces unnecessary administration by enabling the provision of services to a member of the family through the release of a new solution and without re-determining all necessary conditions. In addition, this proposal deletes the obligation to demonstrate the business capacity as already stated, extending the possibility of catering activities to special hospitals and such. All of these proposals aim to reduce obstacles to the legitimate business of tourist workers and to respect tourism as a significant economic branch of the Republic of Croatia's SDP club will accept the proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43762	Thank you and the SDP club. But your exposure has been reported replicas. Dear Representative Josip Boric, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43763	Thank you very much. Comrade Bagaric, I can agree with much of your debate. This law is life and recognizes the moment, both intent and former government and present to legalize objects. However, what we dispute is exactly what you were talking about. Residential buildings built or built by companies, cooperatives, craftsmen, individuals in the area of construction let's say, the construction area of certain settlements, municipalities, cities, which we now allow to amend this law, given that they have not achieved their primary purpose, which is that they built a residential building they wanted or sold as an apartment or something like that, we allow it to categorize such an object and that it starts to deal with tourism, renting. Is this a contribution to the quality of Croatian tourism, whether we have made competition to companies that are primarily engaged in catering activities, whether we are opening up an area that will become a competition for all who have been legally, legally involved in their work, and that they have been built, I say apartments with different purposes. Why do we and whether we will also respect the strategy that said that we are going when we talk about private accommodation in the medium term to reduce the share of private accommodation in the total tourist transport of the Republic of Croatia and whether we are making a richer tourist offer and differentiating the tourist product? For us, this may be the most controversial provision, at least for me personally, because it really is not fair to some who are called primarily catering activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43764	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Lidija Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43765	Dear fellow Boric, here's the opposite. I would not agree with you because the fact is that the state has a great deal of trouble to deal with these unused objects and it's a dead capital that nobody really benefits from, and I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be offered to tourists if there was an interest. And here you have shown total inconsistency because during the debate on the Tourism Development Strategy, you have so protected these private tenants and advocated even greater construction. So when it comes to the fact that a larger share should be hotel accommodation, you had an objection, and now on the other hand, you have an objection when both households and such objects are placed on the market touristically now you have something against it. So I really don't understand what your point of view is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43766	New replica and respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43767	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bagarić, in large part, agrees with your discussion, I support a certain part of the amendments to the law because I think he is making good progress in solving certain problems, but in one of your findings they cannot agree on, which is that the amendments to this law will remove obstacles already in this tourist season. Today is 21.06, the tourist season has already begun, this law takes effect on the eighth day following the publication in the National Journal, when it is published in the National Journal, then there is a part of the solution that must be made and part of the legal procedure. And I think this tourist season is already slowly past when it comes to the solutions to the amendments to this law. Slowly, in the fact that the ministry is late, this law would have had its purpose for this tourist season if it had been here three months ago for the debate in the Assembly and had been passed, it would have had certain effects. Like this, I'm afraid that this tourist season with this law has passed and that we are coughing here as well as with other things that we are coughing about both this Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43768	Replicate response, respected representative Lidija Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43769	Well, a well-respected colleague of mine may agree with your findings, and the truth is that it would be better if it started earlier, but you do know that legalisation requirements are being handed over by the end of this month and these changes and additions are still under emergency procedure, so it's going to try to meet the renters. And I honestly believe, given that there are a large number of announcements that a large number of potential tenants will be able to take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43770	Thank you, too. The next club is a club of independent and respected representatives of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43771	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Yes, although this law certainly opens up a series of dilemmas, the law should be supported. And why is that? Well, because he's tanging tens of thousands of people. I mean here first of all those who, on black till yesterday, rented their rooms or houses or apartments, who thus did not contribute to the state budget and who wanted to sort of regulate the problem but so far until the beginning of this legalization they were not able or able to do so. What is prescribed by this law? I quote: "In particular, allow citizens who have accommodation facilities and have no evidence of the use of the building so that they can come up with a temporary solution on the basis of which they will be able to provide accommodation services, provided they have submitted a legalisation request." In this way or in a way so far, we all agree that the state had to lose millions of kunas. Now this article is going to be contained in some way I dare say it and work on black. And I guess that's commendable thinking by the legislator. I quote further: "The fact is that part of the facility in which catering services could be provided was built without the necessary documents for construction and that the entire legalisation process of buildings under the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings is under way." The legalisation process is very extensive and given the number of applications submitted and the capacity of the competent authorities will take some time. In fact, it is already in the number of applications submitted or that number of applications submitted has crossed the 100 thousand figure, and it is estimated to rise to about 200 thousand for which it will take a longer period of time. Now, if it's 200 thousand buildings in the area of the Republic of Croatia, I suppose it's on the coast line or that on the coast line from Savudrija down to Dubrovnik, the Coopers don't matter, they're somewhere around 100 thousand of these buildings and I dare also say that of those 100 thousand buildings maybe 20 thousand deals with a certain form of tourism, rents their rooms. And now that we're looking at how much they lose here only through the form of tourist taxis and taxes which from the tourist community, which from the state, we get to 100 million kunas. And there's really, like someone asked you a question here earlier, asking whether the buildings that we're going to legalize now are going to be competition for those who work or who have worked legally so far? I say there won't be competition for anyone. Why won't it be? Because working on black so far was unfair competition. If we don't make it impossible for them, they'll still work in black and only then will there be real unfair competition for everyone, they won't pay taxes, they'll be in a more privileged position, and in this way I'm saying that if they do anything else, we'll make them act in accordance with the legal rules. The following is also said: "To enable hosts who have applied for the initiation of the legal process of less demanding buildings whose building gross area is not more than 400 square meters, to carry out catering activities in some type of catering facilities" and among other things, I quote: "To enable hosts, craftsmen, cooperatives, traders, companies to carry out catering activities in the catering facilities of the type of rooms, apartments, studio apartments etc." What is important to me, however, is also what I constantly listen to, let's say, to the comments of the Istria County host company, this is the OPG's business. To be clear, these little OPGs must have increased the offer especially in Istria and no one has anything against them. And I wouldn't dare say that they're unfair competition to craftsmen, God forbid. But craftsmen, catering in a far more unfavourable position than the same. These craftsmen dare to say working there in the 1960s, '70s, '90s don't matter today, they've raised Istria's offer and Croatian gastroscene, but today they're sort of dared to say on their breaths and I'll say the law once again should be absolutely supported, he has his logic, the logic of accommodation to pay taxes to avoid black work. However, without a craftsman, I would argue there would be no such OPG. The craftsman is in the VAT system, the OPG to that amount of 250,000 kuna. If there were differences in the examples between OPG and craftsmen, the differences are simply drastic. I simply dare say that for the same job a craftsman will pay the state 500 thousand kuna taxes, the O.P.G. will pay, say, 50 thousand kuna taxes. What are the OPGs that I absolutely advocate but I advocate and that craftsmen are treated the same way or that they are equal to them. This is defined among other things and there are certain interventions on page 18 of Article 38, and among other things it is said "the peasant household within the meaning of this law is an OPG entered in the register. The farmer of the holding, in accordance with the regulations of the Ministry of Agriculture, can then "in rural households, the following catering services can be provided, the preparation and service of warm and cold dishes and drinks and drinks from most of their own production for up to 80 guests, hikers at the same time" and 2 "services and taste of must, wine, fruit wines, etc. up to a maximum of 80 guests of hikers at the same time." 3 "services accommodation in the room, apartment, rural house up to a maximum of 10 rooms or for 20 guests at the same time and or accommodation services in the camp with a maximum of 20 accommodation units and 60 guests at the same time". So in paragraph 4. "Eats, drinks, potions used in the rural household must be common for the area in which the rural household is located, exceptional services referred to in point 2. and 2. may be provided for more than 80 persons for hikers" etc. So this OPG is kind of an emphasis on its own production. The caterer offers the same thing, but they have to get it in some other way. But the difference is drastic. On the one hand, we have family employment, the family produces food that should certainly encourage, protect, defend, but the position of a craftsman should in some way be reconsidered so that we do not lose them in due course. Article 38a says "for the provision of catering services in rural households, the agricultural economy is required to result in solutions to the competent office. In the sense of this law, peasant households are regarded as an OPG whose holder is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, a national of the Contracting State of the Treaty on European Economic Regulation, then said "the agricultural holding is registered in the Agricultural Economy, that it has the right to use the facility and or land in which the catering services will be provided" etc. No matter what, once again I will repeat the short bill is good, the law must also bring benefits to the citizens of the tenants, combat that unfair competition but will certainly bring benefits to the state budget itself. And as much of that law I think we should support it, but here's the position of the crafts maybe apostrophe apostrophe. In some ways, there may be 2013, 14, making them competitive now with the OPGs which should also be protected and protected and encouraged and encouraged, but once again I will say and preserve the trades. All in all, I think that one law that has been waiting in such or similar form for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43772	Thank you very much, Your Honor. At your presentation, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić wishes to express his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You said that one of the goals and this law is to curb work on black, of course, we must all support it, and also these urgent changes because it is to those who have submitted the request to work in a legal way that comes out to meet. However, I fell under about one mandatory condition written for the entry of licences, a provision that is required that the applicant must be the owner of the country where the building is under consideration. For example. a caterer who wants to come up with the solution to the state of play, and it does, however, not own the country. so, basically, a temporary solution can't be obtained. Thus, potential applicants, and there are many of them in particular in islands where property legal relations are not resolved, they cannot prove that they are the owners of the country. So they're in this process, they've invested financial resources in legalisation, but they can't legally do their job that way. So if they're legalized, they can't categorize, so I can't legally do my job. The state or units of local self-government again lose because they have been denied the fiscal income they receive, and still the employees cannot do so, or the caterers cannot do their job legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43774	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43775	If that is the case, then the amendments really need to be intervened and I want to believe that the competent tourism ministry could accept such an amendment. Indeed, there is no reason not to meet them. However, I do have to do the dominantly to recognize this law as reading it as the suppression of unfair competition to those who are all legally working in the area of renting rooms. Just before, I quoted 100 thousand requests for legalization of the family building have been filed in Croatia. About 200 thousand of these demands are expected to say that on the Adriatic coast, there are some 100,000 illegally built buildings on our islands. And no one's going to convince me that 20, maybe 30, maybe more than 30,000 families who have their own family homes don't deal with renting these rooms. It's in the business. Therefore, they are to legalise these objects, they are to work legally and contribute to the state, they want to deprive themselves of the fear that tomorrow they will knock on their doors some inspection. And they are finally ready to pay these tourist taxes and all other taxes to the state and local self-government. I guess that's the only way in which it's possible for the state budget to see the benefits of maybe several hundred million kunas. And I am sure that tourist communities and municipalities will also earn a few dozen million kunas. And in that part, surely this Law is something that needs to be supported and welcomed by my deep conviction. And it's a shame that something like this wasn't suggested 10 years ago because the state as such would have benefited maybe from several billion kunas in those 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43776	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer, Minister of Tourism wants a word again. Here you go. Darko Lorencin, Minister of Tourism, here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43777	Thank you very much. In short, in fact, we have identified several groups in the drafting of this legislative proposal, which is referred to in the accelerated procedure, and let’s say a few specificities. And this problem is about ownership and mandatory relationships. Therefore, as I said earlier, it is practically now a regular amendment to this Law, where we also introduce improvements in the Law by certain groups. And given that it's just about ownership relations, that it's about specificities that are related to certain environments, in this particular case of islands, then we're going to need a little more time to examine the regularity and compliance and other ministries, and this problem we're going to start dealing with practically immediately after adopting this, these changes and additions that are in the emergency procedure. And we will certainly have it and it will be recognised in this legal solution, that is, the bill that will go into regular procedure. So I suggest that we now focus on these rapid changes and additions. We must bear in mind this extremely large number of legalization requests. To allow these Changes and to be completed as soon as possible so that solutions can be issued and that owners may be able to make those solutions as soon as possible for this season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43778	Thank you, Minister. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Croatian Labourists, the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic are on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43779	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. This is absolutely certain, it could also be called a mini law on legalisation, as soon as some so recognize it, it is not difficult to claim that it is late. It would have been much better if it had been passed at a time when the Law on Legalization was passed, and we certainly wouldn't have done these 5 to 12 jobs. But it's a good thing he came on the agenda and "5 to 12". When I was talking about the legalization of illegally built objects, and then I already claimed that legalization is actually not just a legal issue, legalization is both an ethical and a moral issue. And it is actually questionable because we know that there were most citizens who adhered to all the laws of the existing and who in time came up with all the necessary building permits. However, individuals have exploited the weaknesses of the state, its system, and the state apparatus seen in the field are not up to the tasks put before it. In fact, we lived for years, decades, and 90 years ago in a state of lawlessness! And this legalization that goes on and on, let's say in the supposed signs of "the right law" is actually a mirror of the rule of law. What is mirrored in it is not impressive at all and is not nice at all. Since there are a large number of facilities whose owners have applied for legalisation of citizens who have no evidence of the use of the building, they can now come up with a temporary solution under this law. Such a provision will no doubt make renters happy, but it will allow for a better and more tangible tourist season on the heart. In recent times, there has been no law on which there has been as many questions as there have been about this law. All those acquaintances from the coast, they called, they asked, they were interested in the fear that something would happen in this tourist season that would make their profits impossible. They called first of all for profit. And this law that we are likely to adopt today certainly gives them great joy and security for many families because it will enable the work of those owners who have applied for legalization of the facilities in which the catering services were also provided. So this law provides an opportunity for catering activities if an application for legalisation of facilities in an illegal facility is submitted and this will be given before we have heard the temporary authorisation by 31 December 2016, then carrying out catering activities for craftsmen, associations, individuals, then healthcare institutions, special hospitals will also be allowed to carry out catering activities. It is very good that almost all the comments of those involved in tourist activities are respected. Practices, circumstances, non-action of the rule of law, failure of inspection services, the self-will of the local community, the non-chalant relationship between the former construction ministries towards illegal construction, have enabled or forced the legislator to write such a text of the law. Any other decision, especially the ban on working in illegal facilities, would be devastating. Less damage will be done by once more permissiveness, but I repeat, just so it doesn't become permanent. It was previously discussed whether this step would allow unfair competition. My opinion is that it won't because all these people who have been engaged in the tourist activity of illegal objects I think it's very few of those new ones that are going to do it, but by legalizing anyway, I think it's exactly the opposite, that it's going to prevent unfair competition. So far, your tenants have been in a grey zone for a while. This law may introduce order, but I repeat, order will be imposed if deadlines are respected because we should not forget that every job is important to us, that any self-employment is important and that any tax pay is of paramount importance. The Croatian Labour Party will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43780	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43781	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Vuksic, you said in the debate that this law is of multiple value and that it is possible to ask a moral question and I really feel that now, for example, illegal construction is actually or an illegal object actually the welfare of this society. Now we get rid of it all of a sudden because we haven't recognized them in the past 20 years or 40 years. It is then said that only this law enables these people to rent renters even though I know I come from an environment where there are almost tens of them, hundreds of such objects, and everyone has dealt with tourism so far. They are not starting to do anything with this law, by trying to introduce themselves into the legalisation system in any way so that in some times before the provisions were tightened. Under this law, tourism can be covered by everyone in this season and the next four. Legalisation is put in a slightly different way because profit is important. something will be taken in the gray part or in the black market that has existed so far. These people have been engaged so far, you know in what way, if they had an illegal apartment, an apartment, an inspection would come, they'd pay the fine, one fine of 5 or 10 thousand kuna, and they'd rent neatly and earn 30 thousand kuna in that apartment. They did it, they'll do it further, this is just a relief to them that at least once they're partially... partially and therefore it should be supported. However, I have a feeling that the tourism ministry has now become a market arbiter. They recognize, say, residential buildings that were built for residential purposes, you can now deal with tourism. That's what the tourism ministry says. What do the other ministries say? Then why even spatial plans, construction zones when they become tourist buildings in residential or building areas. So they take the role of regulators for themselves. Banks can't charge loans, you can do tourism. Zagreb will now be able to become the center of tourism because we have a lot of buildings that have not been sold apartments, all can be transformed obviously by this law into those in which they will be able to deal with tourism and we will all be engaged in tourism. It doesn't matter what we did under all the other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43782	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43783	Dear fellow Boric, here's to being a little ironic, why don't we all deal with tourism if we're a tourist country. I don't think I see the obstacle. Actually, I haven't realized the point before in your previous replica. I spoke several times when we discussed legalization that it was a moral issue. I come from a place where it was mostly built legally, from a place where it's garter, all books are clean. Nothing's waiting. It's all familiar. They paid for all the permits, they cared. So we're not taught that way. But I don't think we'll achieve anything if we destroy everything, if we ban everything. Of course it's a moral question. Some of them did everything on time, they paid everything, and now those other people who didn't pay, who were building illegally, who were doing things like you said by illegal renting or renting them legally in illegal buildings, are being introduced in such order. We are I've done it countless times here in the Parliament repeated we are an illegal state. We don't have the right to rule. Look at the courts, the court proceedings. We're trying to get it in order, and I hope we can do it. And I don't see any reason to ban people who can rent rooms if they have conditions prescribed by the laws that they can rent rooms. I mean, that's why you can't rent it in the apartment building. Well, I don't see why it bothers you that the tourist activity or part of the tourist activity is being dealt with by those who haven't done so far. Here's what I don't get. I mean, that's like saying, look, this is what he opened the bakery and he wasn't a baker until now. How can we let him now if he meets the conditions?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43784	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43785	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, I agree with you that legalization is not only a matter of regulation of space, a question of the records of objects, but also of a moral, ethical question. But it seems to me that we've solved that doubt. That is the question we resolved two years ago when we proposed the law because we were aware that it was not possible to bring down 300,000 or more illegal objects in Croatia and that the only correct path was to draw the line from 21 June 2011 and those who will then work against the law will be sanctioned. But what I would like to suggest to the ministry is the fact that the Law on Legalization allowed the legalisation of objects for which requests are submitted by non-owners. And there would probably be no more than 300,000 by the end of the deadline, until July 1st, it was submitted that the law did not allow the application for legalisation of objects by non-owners. And they're not owners of anything else and because it's a messy catastre and a land book. And if we've put a lot of that decision into ourselves to allow the legalisation of illegal objects, I think we should go one step further in this law, because you're not going to get a success by this law when you ask that a request to carry out an activity can only be filed by the owner so far, and after legalising a legal object. It would therefore be a better formulation if we really want to encourage hospitality, or tourism activity in Croatia, that in these facilities that will be in the legalisation system after 1 July, instead of or as compensation for the inability to contribute to their request a copy of the land book confirming their ownership to allow them to be removed from the catastra that they are owners. Because if we made it possible for this job to be done in an illegal facility it seems to me that much less from the aspect of the law is easier to allow the owners of the cataster to do so, or they don't have to be property owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43786	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43787	Dear colleague Bačić, though we said it was except for a legal and morale question. However, you have determined that we have settled the doubt. We haven't solved the doubt. Because if we had solved the doubt, then we wouldn't have hesitated, because the ethical and moral question is the eternal question, and I'm not sure we did the right thing. That's why I hesitated, and that's when I said I had doubts about it because we're someone, because we made one decision that I voted for. But I said I'm not sure I'm doing the right thing. I voted because let's say social issues, because people don't collapse. We damaged those who respected the rule of law. With us, the rule of law doesn't work, and the fact that the rule of law doesn't work isn't the fault of individuals who have been illegally building. To prevent illegal construction, we would not be discussing these issues at all today. There are orderly states that simply say what don't people pay you to do? They're surprised, they don't know that, there's no such thing in court. So there are no states that say you're building a building and the building doesn't have a license. So what were the state institutions doing? Watch out, all the buildings. In the city of Zagreb you have whole buildings that do not have a valid permit, which do not have a building permit, which have nothing. In the coast, the islands have nothing. What were the inspections doing? Did anyone get fired? Itd. Thus, it is a moral eternal question. And you mean if we've passed the law that we've solved the question. We haven't solved the question, because there's always a doubt that we did the right thing. If there's no doubt, then we're doing a bad job, because we're too sure of what decisions we make.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43788	Thank you very much. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43789	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Madam Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will support the adoption of amendments and the addition of the laws on catering activities that are on the agenda today for a whole series of reasons. We can look at it on the one hand, on the practical side, by asking what this proposal solves or which solutions it provides in the future. We can also ask the question on which the principles rely on such a formulated proposal to amend and supplement the law, which is very important to us. First of all, when we talk about the legalization process, we can agree with those who still have the need to raise doubts about whether it was ethically, morally, in this way underline the line. And it should always be critical and skeptical and always with more pairs of eyes look at those solutions that we have made because we are not sinless. But the fact is that with this solution, so this law that we have changed several times, which enables the legalization of objects that are not built under the applicable Construction Laws, we have actually made a few important things possible. First and foremost, we looked into the truth in the eyes and aware of the real situation, so we decided not to solve the problem directly or indirectly, but rather to allow what is capital, existing capital not only individually but the overall social value, we register it and legalize its function. If that is the case, then we must not be hypocrites but in that idea be consistent. This law that we are discussing here today is taking a step in parallel and says not that all those who have legally legalized facilities will be able to deal with tourism rather than have the right to apply until the end of this process to obtain a temporary solution. But they won't get it with automation. There are criteria by which the catering facilities are classified, or categorized, and if these criteria are not met, they will not be able to obtain a solution temporarily. So, in this liberalisation, it's not going to be an absolute deregulation, so the elimination of all criteria. Let's not get the wrong idea about what's going on here today. We keep the criteria, they are defined by the regulations, but we allow those who have entered into the legalisation process because they certainly do because they believe that they meet the basic criteria that they begin to engage in activities as soon as possible, i.e. to look the truth in the eyes, so we say what you were doing until yesterday if you meet the criteria you will also be able to deal with these 4 tourist seasons but this time legally, registered outside of the gray economy. What we are also interested in as liberal Democrats is whether this law promotes freedom of entrepreneurship? Yes, freedom of entrepreneurship is spreading, and that's very important. But not at heart, I repeat again, the criteria that apply to the market. Because they won't be able to deal with everyone's tourism. Not everyone will be able to engage in hospitality but one who meets the criteria defined by the Law on Hostage. We're talking here today about a few articles that are changing, but let's not lose sight of the integral text of this law that we're talking about here. So far, we've had an attempt to repress, so by inspection, try to get things in order. Obviously, there are two ways. To those who did so in facilities without the necessary permission to deal with entrepreneurship we sat behind the neck of penalties and we could do so in the future ignoring the fact that they were in the legalisation process, but a lot of this would not cause positive effects. It is definitely clear that this is not only about accommodation facilities but also about business catering in a narrow sense it is about restaurants, bars, so it is about places where it is served and where food and drink is prepared and served. If this means expanding entrepreneurial freedoms, i.e. access to a larger number of people who want to deal with entrepreneurship and the activities of catering and tourism, this is not a bad solution, it is something we want to support. But the same is true when the question of newly built buildings, or housing units, is raised. Why would we be against the fact that this dead capital that creates an ever-increasing gap in terms of investor responsibility and the one who financed that building is further deepening? Isn't the logic of things narrowing down that risk space, allowing people to deal with creating new values? I do not observe here first of all Zagreb because Zagreb cannot change anything important in its tourist blood count by increasing its capacity by increasing this hour. He has to do it in other ways. First of all, by raising the quality of service, diversity, attractiveness and not only in the high season. Here is the question of a large number of housing units built in more attractive tourist zones when it comes to high seasons. Well, isn't it better what new construction is, which, by default, represents a quality story? So give them a variant, an alternative to entering entrepreneurship in a way that puts these capacities into the function of hospitality, i.e. accommodation. We have a whole range of tourist zones on the Adriatic where in the high season we officially look at the number of capacities we have a capacity deficit. And it will only help to find these capacities in offers whether directly on the market, whether through intermediaries. On the other hand, let's start with the fact that it's empty spaces that need to be equipped. Can't apartment without equipment go to the tourist market. You need to buy furniture, equipment. Will that generate the part of the consumption that we're missing right now? It certainly will. We'll all benefit from that. What I would also like to point out here is that the role of inspection services must simply be underlined when adopting such regulations. The inspection still needs to be very, very closely monitored, to prevent abuses among other things, as the law here says which groups can be classified as the capacities, rooms, apartments, studio apartments, so that we do not get re-determinedly defined capacities advertised under another ego. Here I will just mention the hostel case, people from the Ministry of Tourism know very well what I'm talking about where the capacity is registered and sorted by one criteria, and on the market is offered under another, and that actually opens up unfair competition within a specific sub-sector. It is something that is not good and it is something where tourist inspections must especially in the city of Zagreb do better work than they have done so far. The law opens up new opportunities for the expansion of entrepreneurship, puts part of the dead capital in motion, opens up opportunities for better management in the next 4 tourist seasons of what exists but has not been registered so far and therefore the HNS club of liberal Democrats will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43790	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43791	Dear fellow Beus, you spoke the same at first about the moral and ethical issue and you said you needed an undertone line and I completely agree with you. The question arises whether the doubts of those who did not act when they were to act and who did terrible damage? We wouldn't be dealing with these questions today if they were doing their job. And now I'm connecting to this at the end of your sentence you said that the very important role of inspection services is very important. I couldn't agree more. If those inspection services had done their job, I would repeat myself today, and we would have discussed other matters. But today, when it comes to drawing the line of what you said and when we said that we were going to tear down those objects that were built later in the 6th month, it seems to me that in 2011, however, today there are powerful men who are not some who are not being destroyed. I asked the minister why some buildings were built later and then I realized that they had a connection which I would prove and that again after this tourist season on my island also a few objects that were built that were intact and said they would not touch us because we have a connection. So I'm saying that's a moral ethical question and when we draw the line, we said after the draw we said, but there are some more equal ones. So this is very important if we said it was the 6th month of 2011 that nothing will be legalized afterwards, but some also open restaurants in these newly built facilities without permission, etc., let's be consistent with that date.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43792	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43793	Comrade Vuksic, I think we'd be wasting our time, our nerves and our strength if we were to comment on the conscience of those who are pests. So the vermin have no conscience. It is rare that when they do harm because of their conscience they turn away from the place where they do harm. But what you're going to do, the fox will never stop eating chickens, that's how it is. It's a matter of responsible authorities at all levels to fence that fox from chickens. Are those inspections? Are they effective? Well, we know they're not, but we can't generalize because there are both honest and honest people who do their job very well and who are trying to prevent lawlessness. Have we been paying enough attention to empowering the State Inspectorate so far? Have we done enough as a legislator to open up space to affirm what they are doing, to protect and reward a positive effect? Well, I don't think we're because I'm not sure if any inspector does the job and more than what his norm is going to be rewarded. But I'm sure almost everyone is under pressure from potential corruption, bribery and agreement, and including that thesis, we have a connection. We've had a relationship since Graham Bell invented the phone, but some should finally chew. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43794	Thank you, Your Honor. The club of HDZ representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev is next. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43795	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Household Activities Act will support the HDZ Club. These changes and additions are both essential and necessary. They wish to remove the obstacle and restriction urgently in order to enable the catering activity to be carried out and relate primarily to the provision of catering services, tenants of space in which catering services will be provided, solutions for the provision of services and the continuation of services in the same space. Tourism is currently the most prospective branch of the Croatian economy. And thanks to tourism, we have a number of new jobs especially in summer months. Here in the first 5 months of this year we have almost 20,000 new tourist activities, new employees in tourist activities which is 24% more than in the same period of the previous year. In a sea of bad indicators, only tourism is a bright point. That's our so-called so-called. The invisible exports without passing goods, i.e. services across the border, and in 2012 revenue from tourism was achieved by 6.83 billion euros, which is 3.2% more than before the year. Despite the economic situation throughout Europe, tourism revenues have a positive trend. We who come from Dalmatia the largest tourist region of the Republic of Croatia are particularly feeling this economic branch. And we all know that a large number of potential available accommodation facilities are not in operation because of the unsettled use status of buildings and during the tourist season there is a lack of accommodation capacity. A bed that didn't fill one night was irrevocably lost. If the apartment room, bed has no solutions for work, no guests, no income from that accommodation, no income from the sale of food, drinks, no tourist tax, no income in the state budget and so on. These amendments will allow citizens who have accommodation facilities to have no evidence of the use of buildings so that they can pass on a temporary solution on the basis of which they can provide accommodation services provided that they have submitted a request for legalisation. When we know that private accommodation achieves 35% of total overnight stays in the Republic of Croatia, then special attention should be paid to this segment. All these private tenants regularly submitted requests to the competent offices for the legalisation of their facilities most often upgrades. It is important to know that their facilities so far have been illegally built, not built out of a whim or a haughtiness to disrupt space. Our citizens in Dalmatia were mostly not lucky to get social housing but they were lucky to live by the sea. In the summer they slept in impromptu, impromptu spaces, their garages, all in one room to rent their bedroom or apartment and thus rent and earn their children’s schooling, to purchase heating for winter, to edit facades, to build a roof or room where their child will study. In time, they saved and decided to build another room and an amapartment, and here is the adoption of the Law on Legalization, and now this Law could not legally rent those premises. What makes me sad is that we need to lose half, if not the whole season because we haven't passed a law like this before. Namely, the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings was passed long ago. And we all know that the legalization process is very extensive and expensive. It is necessary to allocate considerable funds for paying first geodetic services, then for the architect's service, then for the fee to be kept in space, and for the communal contribution and so on. And we all knew that because of all this, demands would be made the last day. And given the number of applications submitted and the capacity of the competent offices, it will take months and years to reach a solution. I am saddened that these citizens who are willing to take a kuna for themselves and for the state budget only now have we thought of and talked about it today. Although it is said that the adoption of this Law should be put into operation, not in the capacity that is unused or in the gray zone, it is obvious that this season is lost for them. Because as this Law enters into force, while requirements are filed on this basis, so as the referents enter the field, they determine whether the object meets the minimum technical requirements and then the solution will pass more than half of the season. And then we could have passed this Law in a regular procedure. And for this law that doesn't need to provide additional resources, we're late for money. It would be said that then the state of the budget is either not alarming or we don't care how to proceed as much as possible. The Ministry's efforts to help our tourism and tourist workers will not bear fruit unless it is the task of the entire government. Tourism is a very sensitive branch, and I don't think this government knows that. Unfortunately, tourism, not even tourism revenues, is of interest to other ministries. I'll give you an example, the minister is also aware of him that on November 1st last year, no competition has been called today, for example. for the port captain in Vodice although the maritime minister declares that it is true that 800,000 kuna in the past year in that exhibit. There's a lot more to these cases than that, unfortunately. Dear Ministers, do you know that boaters who organize one-day waterfall trips to national parks, Krka Falls and Kornata because of many new amendments to the Law plan to end the organisation of all trips on July 1st. Namely, they don't know, and there's no one to give them instructions on how to drop the bill. If they have to have fiscal cash registers and how they practically perform when the price of their service includes a guide fee, a ticket to a national park, the prices of catering services that require a fiscal cash register and is calculated with a VAT of 10%, the price of transportation to which VAT of 25% is charged. No one knows how to direct that boater to the law. All possible combinations lead to a minimum of two laws being violated. And problems on the marine good, etc. Tourism is widely expected in all respects. Tourism gives a lot, although it doesn't get as much as it deserves, and tourism could give a lot more to think about it throughout the year, not just in the 6th, 7th or 8th months. Finally, these changes expect an increase in registered tourism traffic, an increase in tourism revenues, an increase in employment, an increase in the revenues of the state budget on the basis of paid taxes, as well as the income of local self-government units. And as a result of the growing crisis and the growing number of unemployed, it is our job to help our citizens achieve another additional income. The HDZ Club will support these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43796	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly of HSU and the Honorable Representative Željko Šemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43797	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another urgent amendment to the Household Act. At the beginning of the year we solved the problem of campsites, and with these changes we solve and remove obstacles to the best tourist seasons, and the changes relate to provisions for catering service providers, for the guests themselves and renters of the space in which the services are provided. The amendments want to enable citizens who have illegally built accommodation facilities to come up with a temporary solution for the provision of accommodation services, but subject to the handover of legalisation requirements. Already, it is now estimated that a large number of applications submitted will end up perhaps in more than 200 000, which should be extended for their solution. In order not to allow a large number of objects to remain in the gray zone with these urgent changes, it is during this tourist season that they can be used. Therefore, this law, i.e. this amendment, will support the Croatian Party pensioners' club. But I have not come forward to discuss these problems that are being addressed by these proposed changes, but I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to point to another problem that pensioners have, and they are related to catering activities. The mother of the pensioner of Croatia, a roof association of pensioners, has been trying for years to solve the problem and to vote the right to host activities in retirement clubs for their members in their premises. According to Article 3(2) of the applicable law, it is prescribed who can carry out all the catering activities, which is a significant number of institutions and alliances. This right is already used by catering and health institutions, and next to them Croatian fairy and hostel alliances for their members, student and student homes in their premises, Croatian mountaineering alliances in their mountaineering homes for their members, hunting associations in their hunting grounds, as well as fishing associations for their members and other registered hunters and fishermen. The Federation of Scouts of Croatia in reconnaissance centres for its members and international scouts' associations, amateur sports associations for their needs in their business premises, Croatian music youth centre in Grožnjan for their members and members of international music associations. Finally, today’s amendments to Article 3(3) of certain catering services can also be provided by natural persons, citizens, who are not registered as craftsmen or traders. The same applicable law does not allow retirement clubs in their premises for their members. There, throughout the year and summer and winter, the fellow pensioners gather and play chess, darts and cards. The mother of the pensioners of Croatia, the most numerous civil society association, has for years warned of an unfair relationship and sought the same treatment in the application of the current Household Activity Act. So far, they have contacted two former tourism ministers, and the promises have always been that they will be realised in the next amendment to the law. Now they're hoping the third one will be lucky. Therefore, on the request of the pensioners' associations, I submit an amendment with the hope that, finally, this oldest population is treated equally in this law, as well as other associations, and that they no longer have a sense of discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43798	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. The first is the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43799	Thank you very much, President. Here's something I'd like to say about the bill on catering activities for these amendments and additions. I've already said before that I'm going to support him because he's alive, he's current, he recognizes the problems and the moment we're in and as individuals, but also as a state, as an institution. Private accommodation is an important segment of Croatian tourism. When we talked about the Tourism Development Strategy and then I was on the side of private accommodation because it is still almost 50% of Croatian capacities, accommodation capacities, and I believe more than that because sometimes it is incomprehensible when we know that we have about 800 or 900 thousand registered beds, and statistics from the tourist communities are talking about a million and a million hundred thousand stationed tourists a day. It means they're somewhere or somewhere asleep, and we couldn't cover that segment. Private tenants don't have some respectable roof organization, mostly trying to get by. They don't even have representatives in the tourist community, although they have 415000 beds. They've been borrowing loans to move from a dead end, and that's what I think they've done in the last ten years. However, it is obvious that in this great desire and desire to do more and to have more capacity and to be more quality and contentable in tourism, it is possible to go through the red and into the system of illegal objects. We had objects that were legal, so we were upgraded or so on. They've become illegal. So then they came into trouble with spatial plans and all those other activities that I would then say and what was legal at one point made illegal. This private accommodation I say is still tough, "zimmer frei" is what is the recognizability of Croatian tourism regardless of how much progress is visible in other parts of tourism. And indeed, when a bill like this is proposed, the question arises who would be against, say, such an explanation that it says enables citizens who have accommodation facilities and have no proof of the use of the building, that they can come up with a temporary solution on the basis of which they will be able to provide accommodation services, provided that they have submitted a request for legalisation. How to be against it? However, the question arises: do we regulate the system of tourism, does it start today? Is every shortcut better than a normal path? Have we ever made a mistake not doing this in 2006 and said everyone who is illegal should deal with tourism there by 2016, so there will always be revenue in the state budget, it will all look good. And sometimes the question arises why we couldn't think of it at all. Then you turn the page and realize that there was an obstacle to it. There's always been debates clearly in the wrong direction. Because today everything that was never allowed is allowed, so here's the story of someone as an entrepreneur, a legal person going into construction in the building area to build a living space, i.e. business space. And he made nice apartments for sale. It didn't pass. Today we can become a living space. There's something we need to build up, meet the conditions, and you can do renting. And who would be against it? Why? When that's all, I say normal, and so far it's just burdened us. Or why we even introduced a business capacity for renters or some kind of medical certificate that you need to take in order to deal with renting. Let's get this over with. Why do we even need it at some point? Did we want to unnecessarily administer, conduct red tape, or make up regulations just for that matter, or did that have any purpose? Now we say this proposal has no purpose. But let's say, on the other hand, for those small, simple objects, we leave such a standard as the HasAP that it almost does, it leaves in the impossible to deal with tourism with all the very conditions that it has to respect in order to open one object, let's say, simple diets. That is the quality I say then Croatian tourism, the highest standard for the simplest objects, the lowest standard, and let's say for illegal objects. And then we come back to the question of whether it's moral or not. Obviously, everything is moral and can go either way. And yesterday we saw in one bill of law that everything can be interpreted and in the way that it fits the current government. We can enter a date or we don't have to enter a date. We don't even know if we're going to bring him in to make us feel better or worse. And we keep saying that we want to be rule state, but always for some shortcut to get to the finish line. This is how I understand this law, and I think that the Ministry of Tourism, I say through it, has shown that it has taken over the role of a market arbiter that corrects the injustices in the area that may have caused some other legal acts and some other ministries and then they solve it with their articles of law and everything is kind of acceptable, well and allows for greater income, profit from tourism, especially this year. And I say again who would be against it. Here I would ask, if it is possible for the Ministry of Tourism to intervene, let's say, in the area of maritime goods, that we can solve something with articles through this Household Activity Act or some other, and then let me tell us everything becomes simpler, and that we always say that everything is in favour of Croatian tourism, citizens, that we will be better and that those who are normal and legal always, because there has always been room to do it legally simply become less important, less important because there is currently another problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43800	Thank you. The replica has Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43801	Thank you, Madam Vice President. By your debate, you reminded me of yesterday's debate on the Law on Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport when we said that this law should be the concern of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, there should be a certain way to care and the Ministry of Tourism, because over 2 million tourists are staying on Croatian islands annually and about 13 million overnight stays on Croatian islands. For this reason, the Ministry of Tourism, and in connection with the better transport connections of the island at this time, should help to return, i.e. to establish this season along the river Rijeka – Split – Hvar – Korčula and Dubrovnik. As we heard yesterday from the explanation of this line, for this line there will not be enough funding, and I believe that it is also important in the part of the promotion of the Adriatic, in part of the promotion of tourism, it would be good that the Croatian tourist community that is now collecting these funds on Croatian islands from the aspect of such a large number of nights could be involved in co-financing of this line. Earlier on on behalf of the HDZ club, Mrs Branka Juričev-Martinchev mentioned that tourism is an interdisciplinary activity, that all resorts in the government should be taken care of, for example, that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs is not concerned about the regulation of maritime transport in Vodice and I would add that the situation is similar in Veli Luka where huge funds are also collected from nautical tourism just as they are in Vodice. So, in that sense, it should also employ people in the Port Captain's office that this way the Ministry of Tourism should help islands in a way that co-finances and part of that traffic so that it can complete the offer on the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43802	Thank you very much. Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43803	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with my colleague Bačić that here, given the difficulties we have, especially how we talked about the law yesterday for a long and long time, that the Ministry of Tourism should be more involved here than perhaps we should engage more significantly in the part of our embassy in Moscow where it should have been to get us some more of those tourists who couldn't get a visa. However, I say we often lose sight of what is important, and we justify it later or by ignorance or inability. So here I'm saying through this law it's clear that you want to help people who obviously stayed in one part of the gray economy or the black, that black market. However, when we talk about Croatian islands, I think that tourism on the islands has shown its toughness and 250 thousand beds is the reason why the ministry should go a little better there, more seriously to these tenants. And what will happen will show time, and whether this law will also fulfill its purpose and derrogate perhaps or slow down, and legalisation will show time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43804	Lydia Bagaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43805	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric, I really don't understand and I don't see why it's such a problem for you to allow the living purpose of the facilities to be provided on the tourist market, or renting to tourists. I mean, tourists are the same as renting an apartment, I mean, I don't see what your problem is? And on the other hand, it won't even work just like that, but it will go in case when the request is launched when it's submitted for re-use. So, it's not just that, and it's likely to meet that requirement. So this is just covering that transitional period.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43806	We're continuing the debate. It's time for my colleague, Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43807	Thank you, Vice President, Minister's associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues in April 2013 The Croatian Parliament adopted the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy until 2020 at the 8th session and so on in 2nd. The chapter of the strategy, called "Croatian tourism today" under offers and products, lists products with a pronounced perspective of development. One of them is health tourism. It's a globally growing product between 15% and 20% a year. Due to close proximity to large markets, natural beauty and favourable climate, country security, long traditions, concrete prices and generally good reputation of health services Croatia has comparative advantages for the development of health tourism. Health tourism products today are particularly relevant for Croatia and they include wellness tourism, medical tourism and medical tourism. Available data suggest that health tourism products generated revenue of around 200 billion US dollars globally in 2010 and that they grow 15% to 20% annually. Given the population's ageing trend or growing orientation towards healthy life and health prevention, health tourism is expected to be one of the main motives of future travel. Key concepts expected to be increasingly important in the design of health tourism offers include innovative, authentic, green and holistic. In this respect, the specific factors of the success of health tourism products relate primarily to the quality of specialised health centres, i.e. institutions, the quality of the accompanying tourist offer and the compatible development of destinations. The above strategy lists the centres of health tourism. Among other things, wave therapy in Crikvenica as a special hospital for medical rehabilitation and Croatian Zagorje as a continuation of activities in the formation of a recognizable thermal cluster. A special hospital is the type of hospital facility. A special hospital is a health care facility specialized in a particular branch of medical activities such as psychiatry. There are 27 special hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. Of this is 9 special hospitals for medical rehabilitation, and among other things are spas – Daruvarska, Krapinska, Stubička and Varazdinske spas. And the hospital is the type of hospital facility. The spa is a health care facility specialized in patient recovery. There are only two public health facilities in the Republic of Croatia in Topuska and Vela Losinj. There's a very thin difference between a hospital for medical rehabilitation and a spa. It is therefore to welcome that this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Food Activity is complemented by Article 3(2) of the Special Hospitals of the Medical Hospitals, as it is necessary for the integrity of the solution to provide health tourism services in special hospitals as members of the Community of Health Tourism. This has also resulted in compliance with the proposal of the Tourism Service Act, which mentions special hospitals, medical hospitals and other health institutions, health companies in Article 3(2) of the Regulation. For example. Since 1855, Krapina spas have had their own doctor who recommends drinking water and swimming in water because of its beneficial activities, known for their natural healing water from ancient times, and a well-known thermal spa was built in the middle of the last century. The water of Krapina spas has been assessed as the 6th highest-quality thermal water in Europe. But besides water today in Krapina spas, we have 3 special hospitals of which 2 private and 2 other private polyclinics. Krapina spas and all their residents, all their doctors and doctors and staff all the patients and patients and guests live at the same time health and health care but also tourist hospitality. No matter what they call Zagorje spas, recognizable thermal cluster or fairy tale on the palm of the hand, this supplement was necessary and has a long-term purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43808	Thank you. Good commercial for Zagorje spas. A colleague of Ante Babic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43809	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with the deputy. I welcome the amendments and additions to this law, and during today's debate, we heard about him being current, that he's living what he really is. My colleague Bagarić spoke of 200 thousand demands, Mr. Kajin spoke of renting on black what this law would prevent and I agree with that, but I want to give this debate a pain that should go to our tourism to get better and better in the future. And they say when God created the world, he left one piece for himself, and that's this piece where we live, and he's certainly recognized in the world. With these amendments and additions to the laws, income from tourism is expected to increase and I certainly don't doubt it, so if you multiply these 200 thousand requests that were spoken of by your colleague Bagarić by 20 nights, that would be about 4 million overnight stays only more this year. What I want to talk about would have been none of it if it hadn't been for the construction of infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, if it hadn't been for highways that had not been communally equipped with cities and municipalities. Regretts me always negatively written by the media about Croatia, whether they are trendy or not, but it is mostly about individual cases when we compare ourselves with other countries in our environment and in Europe, so if you want to be in the world. I am glad that certain things can be simplified in tourism and that there are certain administrative barriers that were certainly not good, as well as the opening of temporary camps, studio apartments or apartments themselves. What has always prevented people from having physical or legal personality is minimal technical conditions. Here I am glad that there is a colleague in the Parliament today, Mlakar, who can testify to this, let's say in one Japan certain catering facilities would not pass the minimum technical conditions in Croatia safely, and in Japan pass them by. I was with one of my colleagues from the Parliament two weeks ago in Oberwart, Austria, at a three-star hotel that certainly wouldn't have passed the minimum technical conditions we didn't even want to stay in that hotel, I'm talking about Austria today, but we're back home. What I would like to point out in particular is that we need to tear down stereotypes because the synonym for tourism is islands, is the Adriatic coast, coast but I think we should also discover those other things in our continental part, which is also the fellow Špoljar talked about this health congressional tourism, but also about the part of the Dalmatian mountain in one special way because it is a certain capacity it is a terra incognito unknown country of many, and in this regard I would like to tell you, even though I have written in writing about it how Minister Hajdash Doncic and you, and it was about the tunnel of the Tunela St. I'm thinking in the middle of July, of which I believe you will be present. And this is the same stopper not only in tourism but in a devastationed economic part of the Imot region which is very much gained by this tunnel and no one is against paying the tunnel when conditions are obtained but in these and in these circumstances it is not acceptable because the economy in that area is on its knees, and I believe that tourism will contribute greatly because a colleague from the Zagvozd Municipality has told me that thousands and thousands of squares of land are being sold in that area. There are untapped potentials of Red and Blue Lake in Imotskoma, there is Sinjska alka which is brand but not used enough, there is Vrlička kolo, there are Vrgorak literary evenings, actors in Zagvozd, it is not used enough can be much, much more and much better. Maybe this law didn't mean mountain-mounted areas and municipalities of special state concern. There perhaps Mr. Minister should have thought about it because it probably isn't a trend, it's not a tradition that maybe those who want to do catering and tourism to somehow be encouraged as an additional way of earning and perhaps without paying taxes in the first year to record traffic, and then to charge that tax. What we certainly need to know and I am glad that this was noticed by Croatia's entry into the EU, we belong to a pool of 500 million people, 500 million potential tourists. And I'm sure by these accommodation facilities that we now have that can happen to us, and I think it might have happened to us last year that already on Macela and on Bregana, we don't know any sign that everything is reserved to us more accommodation capacities and to direct people to other countries because we have small accommodation facilities. So these amendments and additions to the law came in a great deal. What I want to emphasise is also that these changes and additions, regardless of what they will be publicly published from your Ministry, should inform all and municipalities and cities so that people can in the best way, in the fastest and more informative way, inform these Changes and Supplements so that they may possibly come up with possible added earnings. And what we don't need to be afraid of is the following information. If we look at some parts of Europe that have no sea and have no attractive areas. Let's say Europe's park in Rust, Germany, visits 4.5 million people with revenues of more than 7 billion euros, and we heard from our colleague's statements that tourism revenues in the last year even though they increased by 3% were 6.4 billion euros. If you look at it, say... At Munchen's, if you see the Mogul Valley of Luxemburg,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] until... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The castle where you visit about 5 million people and you in your ministry need to exploit such and similar potentials in Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must admit that I did not visit Croatia enough, by coming here to Zagreb to take advantage of my spare time visiting Zagorje and Varazdin every time with these cultural, natural, famous beautys. The last thing I did with a colleague was visit the Lonjsko field that has something to offer, and the place of Cigoč, which is too little to use if we know it's just one day, the town in Denmark only because of one native nest, is a holiday in this place because of one birth nest, and here we have hundreds in Lonjsko polje. And I think we use it a little bit. By believing and welcoming these amendments and additions to the Law, I believe that you will also try to work in this direction at the Ministry of Tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43810	Thank you very much. Lydia Bagaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43811	Here, I would like to replicate my colleague at the opening part of the debate, and you mentioned the 200,000 demands that I mentioned in my debate. Of course, you've already calculated all these 200,000 demands, how much this will increase tourism revenues. Well, of course, all these requirements are not motivated by the intention of putting these facilities on the tourist market, nor will it increase tourism revenues so much. There are several announced, I also mentioned 500 requests in Zadar, 700 requests in Split, that number will certainly be much higher but of course it is not more than all 200 thousand requests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43812	The answer to the replica Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43813	Well, I wouldn't have respected my colleague Bagarić, I don't want you to get me wrong, I've positively understood that, so I'm just going to be attached by definition as far as I know, tourist is every person who stays more than 72 hours outside of his place of residence. If we only counted such tourists who do not register and are in Europe, you are also obliged in Austria, Germany will apply after 72 hours and pay the tourist tax. And local communities would benefit greatly from that. Well in that, in that... I understand these 200,000 demands that could further increase the accommodation capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And certainly help the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43814	And welcome Marija Lugaric to the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43815	Dear Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister with Associates, so I support this, the adoption of this law, I would not like to repeat everything that my colleagues and colleagues have said in the debate so far, especially as regards the harmonisation of the provisions of this Act with other laws and the reduction of the number of accommodation units, that is, the parts in which the catering activities have been carried out so far in the gray zone, I think it is important to put into office and all those capacities that exist and as much as possible, above them, order and control. However, one part of the law I would like to talk about is the amendments to Article 10, which actually amends Article 33. I fully support the idea and what is written in the law to enable the tenant to provide services in the household, so I'm talking about private renters. And for persons who own the property is the marital debt of the tenant, to allow for the outcome of both the one and the other marriage debt, so this one, without all of the procedures that precedes the issue of the rental solution for this first one. And in a way, continuing to provide catering services to spouses in something better and more relaxed to say the atmosphere. Because it's simply life that has shown that these limitations have been exaggerated, that they have further complicated and that in fact they haven't essentially changed anything,... So we have a family household or household that provides a particular service to be adequately applied to all members and members of that joint family household. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's totally fine and I absolutely support it. However, it seems to me that one oversight has occurred, namely, our Family Law Article 1 and Article 2 very clearly defines the concepts and circumstances that this country considers family. And what relations are between individual members and family members. That's how the extramarital community is defined. Family law regulates property relations in the marriage community by Articles 247 to 257. In that context, Article 258 states that out-of-marriage property relations apply to those Articles 247 to 257 relating to property relations in the marriage community. This part of you that you predicted regarding relationships in the marriage community is therefore not the part that can be taken under those provisions of the Family Law. And we are actually coming into a situation where a law, that's the Family Law, says that legal relations between extramarital partners need to be equal with those relationships that apply to marriage partners, including property relations, but this law does not recognize it. This law does not allow what is allowed for marriage mates to do so in a mutual relationship to be done by extramarital partners who, under the Family Law, should have the right to do so. In this sense, I suggest that you only give one small amendment to the transitional provisions of this law which would say that it refers to this Household Activity Act that applies to a spouse and to an extramarital companion, that we don't have to make a lot of amendments for each item and article, and that we would actually cover, comply with this law with the provisions of the Family Law because it does not provide for this kind of property relations on the one hand. On the other hand, I think that we would write in the law what we all think and what is in some way agreed policy, which is that in particular in the legal effects of this nature, the marriage and the extramarital community are fully equal. There is another argument that is not to be cast, namely Article 6. The Law on Gender Equality states that discrimination based on marital status is prohibited, and we cannot regulate some rights through different laws in a different way, and in some ways there is a consensus about it, there are other laws, and I think that these good policies, which have no agreement, which there is no dispute, must then be properly implemented through all other laws. Relations between partners, out-of-marriage relations, marriages are not just a question of family law, not only of the Law on Gender Equality but, as we can see, and on this example, the issue of the Household Activity Act is a question. As bizarre as it seems at first glance, but it simply isn't and that's life and these are the circumstances to be considered. Of course, to state the argument that some logic of the joint household, the joint investment that then happens in the catering activity, and it is perfectly acceptable to extend it to the outside partners, because the relationship, the arguments that give the right to transfer these rights from one mate to another somewhere in the background is a joint investment, a common concern about the common property, etc. It's all true for out-of-marriage partners, too. So I think we have one very simple solution for this. I believe that it just happened, that it simply... very often so everyone looks at their portfolio and sometimes the big picture is missing, but I think that such a thing would also be in line with the intensity and the proposings and with all those discussions that are in this and also in other laws were here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43816	Thank you very much. Final word, Minister of Tourism Darko Lorencin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43817	Thank you very much. Honorable Madam Vice President, gentlemen, Madam Representatives. Here I would like to thank you for the debate, and I would like to clearly recapture some situations and some suggestions, and I would most certainly prefer that we start from the proposal of HSU, or from the amendment, where I am essentially repeating, I would like to call for a little understanding, given that we are going to table all these amendments and delay the adoption of this law which this amendment would cause. Absolutely, first of all, let's get this straight, as far as applying the change in essence is concerned, we absolutely support the meaning of this. We would install in the regular amendments to the laws that we are practically already working on and we could immediately install into the original bill that we would propose in the autumn. The reason is that the delay would not only take seven days, but it would come much longer. In fact, it is not only the problem and the pensioners but other groups, sports associations, associations of various interests that also highlighted the same needs. On the other hand, we must also agree with the representatives of the private sector, i.e. with professional associations, primarily hotelers and these other associations present in the business community because it is always a sensitive area where gray zones appear to us and on their part point to unfair competition. We must therefore, indeed, take a little bit more time to assess the precise and precise effect, in order to very precise and precise ways to shape the interest and desire that the pensioners would like and I think that we need a little time, and from this place they can guarantee that this essence will, therefore, be available to their members and within their space to provide these services. Also, in particular about ownership, i.e. the lack of ownership for the issue of a solution, I have already said the same before. I thank you for understanding because it also requires a little deeper preparation and impact assessments to do so. As for the extramarital partners, or extramarital communities, please if we can do the same, so we have already made these urgent changes and additions to one step, we have covered that possibility for other family members to use, that is to say, to get a solution without any additional obstacles. And I think that if you don't think that's crucial, and I repeat on the amendments, we're still working on the regular amendments to this law. Please, if you can, here, really get involved in the work and in building all these premises into a new bill. By absolutely standing I also support the proposal of the Croatian party of pensioners both by Mrs Lugaric and by the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. All in all, I thank you for the debate that has been held, and I thank you also for understanding that this is how we regulate one activity that covers and creates 49% of our total capacity in this segment of private accommodation. So the segment that requires and which needs a significant increase in the quality of this accommodation and the Ministry of Tourism is, among other things, this measure, this amendment of the law that was created two, three months ago. So, when we saw when the need arose and we saw that there would be a very large number of requests precisely for objects that were intended in some way we decided to take this step and we feel that the same way if we could come up with a solution in the second month of July, without saying the month of August when the peak of the tourist season is and if several thousand people achieve the possibility of getting a solution and doing this activity that we have already done a very good thing. I owe just one more explanation for this residential activity. In fact, temporary solutions are also issued, and this residential activity refers to those cases where in fact not only when we say residential activity ahead of us, we see essentially apartments in residential buildings etc. which are present and which are not registered in this activity. It is mainly about villas, houses for tourism, apartments, larger facilities that the legal persons invested and which were supposed to be, which could not be achieved by the outcome of the solution. So it's a shame that the facilities are standing, that we have a found state where neither the owners are able to generate income nor the state. As far as general accommodation is concerned, and as regards the general impact on the private accommodation segment, the ministry is one concrete measure that primarily helps the development of tourism in this continental part or as the respected representative Babic cited parts of the Dalmatian Zagora. So, a measure of 1000 swimming pools for Croatia that has come into effect where, together with the Ministry of Construction, we have managed to achieve that less, up to 100 squares do not require a building permit, that they can, if the spatial conditions allow it to be built without a building permit. In this way, we consider only this fact that we have given a very good incentive that objects that are not even on the sea can create and can build their own pool and thus become much more attractive for bringing and accommodation guests. The new strategy envisions a whole series of measures mainly aimed at increasing the quality of private accommodation. Also, in collaboration with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development two weeks ago, a new credit line has been adopted, covering also a segment of private renters and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in tourism. A competition for innovative projects has been launched. A competition for projects in underdeveloped tourist areas was also launched last week. Therefore, this first year of implementation of the new strategy will certainly be the result of all these measures and will be good for us to further develop and improve and increase the scope of the measures, and certainly one of the important components is that of which the Ministry of Tourism takes special care, which is the possibility of using cohesion instruments, i.e. we take into account all segments, by all priorities, by all 11 priorities which can have more or less impact on the tourism product that tourism is adequately represented, i.e. that we have concrete measures through priorities and that we are present in operational programmes, and in such a way that any public sector can benefit from structural funds in the realisation of its projects. That's it. I thank you for the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43818	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later, and now we'll set a break by 12 hours when I ask you to enter the hall because we'll vote on discussed bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43819	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Food Activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 392. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HSU. I'd like the Honorable Minister, Darka Lorencin, to come forward. Amendment No 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43821	You accept. Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment of the Club of Representatives at the Croatian Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43822	We don't accept the amendment. Since there is a regular change in this law in autumn and since matter is a matter we are prone and we are willing to support the regulation of the activities of the pensioners within the meaning of the Law on Indigenous Activity, it is precisely this regulation that requires a longer process where compliance with all sides and other groups should be carried out, since we also have similar associations and bodies that would like to be treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43823	I'd like a representative of the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSU-respected Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43824	Dear Ministers, as you pointed out in the final debate, that you absolutely support our proposal that pensioners' associations can also deal with this activity, I am pleased with your firm promise that this problem will be resolved in the autumn because of your guarantee and I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43825	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, and Your Honor. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 97 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on host activity in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the HRT Supervisory Board. The Committee on Information, Information and Media shall be proposed by the Proposer of the Decision, on the basis of Article 22. HRT law. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic is chairman of the board. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43827	Just a brief clarification. Ms Vesna Kusin resigned as a member of the council because she took office as deputy mayor of Zagreb, which is incompatible with this function and the Media Committee unanimously accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-21-0.u43828	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a committee decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that, unanimously, with 94 votes, the decision to resolve the member of the HRT Supervisory Board is in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Attorney's Board of Advocates. The Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a committee decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 93 votes for a decision on the discharge of the members of the State Attorney's Council of Representatives in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
