ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u27999	Dear MPs and MPs, the applicable Roads Act, have been prescribed to classify public roads depending on their social, traffic and economic significance in highways, state roads, county and local roads. The proposed supplement regulates the jurisdiction of legal persons managing highways and national roads and the way works are done in the construction of certain public roads in case they are classified from highways to state roads and vice versa. The proposed way will allow for the continued implementation of investment projects, which will also prevent and eliminate possible major economic disturbances. In cases where a public road is classified on the highway, i.e. in a state road, is classified in another group in such a way that the highway passes into the state road and vice versa, and has already started with the construction of a particular section or at a high stage of construction, the legal person who managed that road will end up until the moment of classification. The technical characteristics of the road in which that road is classified should be taken into account. In the situation of reduced investment, this law will allow for the continuation of the start-up of the low-building construction sector. It is proposed to adopt the Law supplementing the Roads Act by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The implementation of this Act does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28000	Thank you very much. Do the workers want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the respected representative Vedran Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28001	The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Minister with his associates, pardon himself, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a bill to supplement the Law on Roads. The road law regulates legal status, method of use, classification, planning and maintenance, management, protection and financing measures, concessions, public and unclassified roads. The addition of the Road Law will solve cases where public roads are classified on the highway, i.e. on the state road, are classified in another group in a way that passes the highway into the state road and vice versa, and have already begun to build a particular section or are in a high stage of construction. Initial work will be completed by a legal person who managed the road by the time the second group was classified. The technical characteristics of the road in which that road is classified should be taken into account. We can illustrate the application of this law’s supplement on a specific example. The residents of my County of Bjelovar-Bilogorska and the viritistic-subravska na once, i.e. the Koprivnica-križevci on the other direction of the bilogor-Podravska ipslon, this change is the only hope that this project will finally revive. With its once-in-a-lifetime illogical retegorisation of the Bjelovar-Podravska Ipsilon from the state road, i.e. the fast road in the highway began to delay the implementation of the entire project. Most of us are familiar with the fact that the contract with the business association that was to build this project as a highway was signed on 29 April 2009, two days after the opening ceremony of FIMI MEDIA. Almost half of the government, all members of my county and Koprivnica-Kristevnica gathered in front of a tent set up on rented land and watched empty papers be signed instead of a contract. Unfortunately, the way the investment was announced in 2009 has continued to this day. At the end of November of last year, highways A12 and A13 were converted to state roads, DC10 and DC12, and Ipislon went into the jurisdiction of Croatian roads. Thus, according to the existing Roads Act, it is not possible to realise the signed business association contract with the Croatian highways that should be amended in the same way as I have already stated since before the categorization of these two shares went to the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads. The possible termination of the existing contract would require compensation for the damage done to the business association, which amounts to several hundred million kunas. This amendment of the law will allow for the realisation of the contract regardless of the current jurisdiction. The following is also wanted by the residents of my county Virovitičko-podravska and Koprivnica-križevska where they will continue to drive on a free fast road, and not by some highway SDP club will support this proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Roads Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28002	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is the replica of respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28003	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague of mine you've brought out that this is the only way this project will survive with such an amendment and an addition to the law. In fact, this project lives and today, only a year of default to contractors has stopped this project. 11 km of bulked stock towards Bjelovar, 11 objects, bridges and viaducts made on that road that the ministry didn't even know about, so the minister said today that there was no beginning of works, that there was an empty letter on the paper. You need to go over the stock and see what happened on that stock. The urgency of the law is the same as those of the laws that were passed after 2000 when highway construction was stopped towards Split. Likewise and now, road infrastructure has stopped everything because no funds were planned in the budget and therefore the contractors have gone into crisis, which is why 10 000 new unemployed at the Employment Bureau are certainly due to this. You stopped all the projects because these are HDZ projects, explaining that it's not necessary, that it has no purpose, that it has no reason. They said they'd take the highway to Koprivnica, which would go to Virovitica. And there are objective building brakes, and that's documentation. From Bjelovar to Virovitica, only now a environmental impact study has been completed, so the documentation could not be completed before. In this respect, I would rather turn this project into a strategic investment than supplementing what you missed with such a change of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28004	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28005	Thank you. My colleague, in a good part of your replica, I agree with you that the objects were being performed, but bear in mind that I reminded myself of the 2009 contract that did not produce any work, the works did not begin in the construction of the stock itself, and you know it very well. The fact is also that the project should work as a fast road, not a highway. And that's what all the traffic numbers are showing. And I believe that it wasn't too much of a road-to-road retegorization, that it was just a fast road that was cheaper and that it was starting to realize a side contract so that the fast road would already get very close to your Virovitica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28006	Thank you, too. The next replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28007	Dear Mr. President, how are you not ashamed of yourself? How dare you speak? So you don't speak here as a local politician on behalf of your village but speak for the SDP, the ruling party. This party, this government in a year and a year and two, three months didn't hit a shovel one on the highway, on a state road, on a county road, on a local road, nowhere. How are you not ashamed of your colleague to go downgrade the previous construction of the previous government, how are you not ashamed to perform here with that sentence that some paper was guilty and that is why some road was not done or made? What have you done and done in a year and a half? Nothing. Your logic as logic was 50, 60 years from Split to Zagreb, you did not think of making 50 km of third tape so that it could come in 4 hours. That's the logic on the scene today. And what about Trogir-Split road that has all the documentation, what about Trogir-Split-Klis road that has all the documentation? What about the Trogir-Omis road that has all the documentation? And don't let me count on you. And you're talking to me there on the road by some village, and you're justifying the unhappiness of this government in a year and a half in the area of highways, roads and local roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28008	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28009	Thank you. Well, I believe your colleague Djakic won't agree with you that I should mention the road next to a village. This road is very important for both Bjelovar and Virovitica, as well as for Koprivnica. You're definitely wrong when you say we didn't do anything. The highway south, according to Dalmatia, was started by the government of Ivica Racan, and you know it very well. I am saying that since 2009 the project has not gone into realisation under the circumstances that I have already stated. Let us not engage in demagogy and it is not the point of throwing and burying stone foundations and doing nothing special about it when it comes to pre-election campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28010	Thank you, too. And the next replica and the esteemed representative of Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28011	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree in large part with your discussion because it is clear that it is necessary for the citizens of Bjelovar-Bilogor County, Koprivnica-Kristevnica County and Virovitica-Podravna County to build a fast road or practically what they call a bilogora-Podravska ipslon. What I'm worried about is what's inside of me. We had four years ago that a certain part of the land was rented there when the works were being opened, and these works after four years we saw that very little or almost nothing was done with having here a year of power, but it took us practically a year to realize that the necessity of continuing the construction of roads or highways and within that primarily I do not have my own safety within whether this activity is not only due to local elections and due to local promotions in the electoral company, but this would be happy because of the citizens of these three counties that these works really start on the Bilogora-Podraval Ipsion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28012	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28013	Thank you, dear colleague. I'm glad that you share good faith with me, and here I am convinced that this will not remain at the level of some tents and setting up rock foundations and that we will definitely go seriously into building a Bilogora-Podravska ipslon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28014	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. We're going to a meeting with the representatives' clubs. Now it is the Club of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28015	Dear Deputy, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The reasons for amending this law were that this would allow for further work. If it's really going to make it possible for the work to continue, we're going to warmly welcome it, we're going to applaud it, we're going to be happy. I'm just not sure it's really gonna be like that. The first misunderstanding creates the very fact that one legal person will continue to invest in something that will be the property of another legal person. I'm a little skeptical about whether it makes sense for you to invest in something you know will tomorrow be the underlying capital and property of another legal entity. On the other hand, you're just about to invest, you're going to invest in that dynamic in the way that is needed and that would satisfy the needs of it. On the third hand, I'm not quite sure that it is and the lawyers will probably give a better opinion, as far as it's actually legally justified that you invest in something that's someone else's and then it's completely owned. I don't know, I have a lot of doubts about how that sounds even logical. The promoter even through the media and here did not mention what will be put into question in this section that processes this law, and that is what will happen to the performers who went into bankruptcy in the meantime, which will be with those who have gone, who have financial delinquents that have been created because of this ad let's say legal vacuum. What happens to the performers who ask the question of the lost gain about the jobs that are lost in that part, I don't think it makes any sense to talk about this subject. Today, at the beginning of this debate, projects are even mentioned and whose projects are and I would also refer to this story whose projects but not in the sense of which, the HDZ, the SDP, the HNS, are irrelevant, but what bothers me more is whose projects are something else. Is it a policy project or a project of the profession? And that's what bothers me that my colleague Babic mentioned today was supposed to be a fast road so she was transferred to the highway, the same situation with the Sisak highway. I believe that a lot of people especially down from Sisak and Banovina and the part down there are gravitating to ask if the Sisak highway should have been a highway or maybe it should have been a fast road. If you have a highway you have an assumption that the situation with the BIH down is resolved, that you know the continuation of the course, that it's all agreed together. But this is a made-up appendix, and traffic along that possible highway that can be expected I think it's really negligible. If it were to go with the construction of a fast road, I believe that today Sisak would be connected to Zagreb by such a fast road that would meet all the needs of citizens and Sisak, and Sisak-Moslavina County, that part of Sisak-Moslavina County which is gravitating to that part, and I believe that as a neighbouring state, BIH would find its own interest in that link, and in this way I have the impression that this policy has been done from some of the higher interests, higher interests, but to the harm of the citizens. Now the promoter is offering us something he claims this is in the interest of citizens, this is, with this we're going to make it possible to continue the work, with this we're going to help the construction companies that are doing these projects. Well, I'd like this to happen. We as the Labour Club will support this law but once again I repeat that I am extremely skeptical of the arguments presented in the media is there honestly no points of contact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28016	At your presentation, we have a signed replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28017	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Novak talking about it being a project of profession or politics and you're asking the question as to whether it really is the need of Croatian citizens of Koprivnica-križevci County, Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Virovitica-Podravska. Of course, it is, of course, the need for citizens, but also for economies. If we are aware that the Istrian ipsion that was built and has brought the development of Istria, so is Clementine, as they call it in Zadar, has brought rapid progress and development of Zadar and the Zadar economy, the arrival of investors. Likewise, we expect that this fast road, both thinking and economics and profession, was always going to bring that road to whether it was fast or freeway. In any case, the highway could have been awarded in a concession unless there was money in the budget and the concessionary built it, rather than using the monetaryization of our built highways. And thirdly, I would like to stress that there are no political aspects in this, but it was to be started to build, but in 2012 there was no kuna for this further construction, so there is no longer now in the projections of the Croatian Roads budget, and Croatian highways spent their budgets and there is no place to continue to build regardless of the speed and spotability of the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28018	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28019	Thank you very much. My colleague Djakic, I am well aware that you have turned to your region as I have spoken about your regional part and that is understandable on that side. When we talk about whether something is justified, there's something that we should say is an optimal need to build this road or that road, but no one with any arguments can tell me, I'd like to see what arguments go into that story that has an excuse, that there's logic for building a highway that's 50km long and has no follow-up. ... No, we're not talking about a highway to Sisak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what I was talking about, but you turned to your part. About it being a fast road, it spreads very easily on the highway. It's very easy to implement but apparently that some other arguments were made in making a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28020	Thank you, too. The next club is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28021	Thank you very much. Honorable President, Deputy Minister. In the opening explanation of this law, the proponent wrote the following "The Law on Roads has been signed to classify public roads depending on their social, transport and economic significance in highways, state roads, county and local roads. In cases where a public road classified on a highway or on a state road is classified in another group in such a way as to cross the highway into a state road and vice versa, and it has already begun to build a particular section or at a high stage of construction, legal persons who have managed that road by the time of the second group's classification will end." This is an expression in the explanation of the proposal of this law. The second thing I considered necessary was an emergency procedure as a reason why it was passed in this way and this law. It writes "in the proposed way it would allow for a smooth continuation and implementation of start-up investment projects, which would also prevent and eliminate possible major economic disturbances. For these reasons, it is also proposed to take effect on the day of its publication in the NN." These are two let's say the claims from this simple law with all one article. But before I go to that point, the essence of this law. I will remind you of everything that has happened in the past ten years since it started intensively in the construction of roads in the Republic of Croatia. All policies so far have said that the highway function is primarily traffic-integrated by the Republic of Croatia in all its parts and ensure the maximum level of security on all state and highways. The second task was faster flow of people, goods and services. And third not less important, for those public companies that invest, which create new values, ensure that a certain level of income can be built in order to finance anything that was built or wanted to be built in the next period. Here we come to the basic questions why such a bill? But before that, I will mention several statements by government officials from last year, but also as an introduction to the adoption of this law this year. So last year, the finance minister said at the 4th month, I quote "the basic thing is that there is no further money in road construction. The traffic direction towards Ploč ends, everything else is invested in the maintenance of highways, state and regional roads." He also said "that neither the EU nor any other institutions support further investment in road construction in the Republic of Croatia". Those are the words of the Minister of Finance. To see the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Branko Grcic recently passed this bill, saying, "We currently have 12 contracted projects worth 4.2 billion kuna, and because of the impasse in realisation, a 1.1 billion kuna has been lost. These projects are now defrosted and moving into realisation as soon as weather conditions are obtained. These projects have stopped mostly because of the problems of large construction companies but new contractors' associations are now involved with new project leaders, so I hope they will be completed this year." Those are the words of the Deputy Prime Minister. We all know that 13 highway routes were planned in Croatia. We also know that they're not finished. Slavnika, which is about 35 km away, Dalmatina, which is almost 100 km away from Dubrovnik, the Kvarner highway that was supposed to go from the Križića merger to Žuta Lokva is not initially missing almost 70 km away. Sisak highway A11 is missing 38 km and here is already mentioned sub-level ipilon in its two sections of which one is in construction, and for the other here we have not heard any other solutions. In Croatia we have a total of 1273 km of highways from planned 1780 on these 13 directions. Comparing that with one China that opened 87,000 km of new highways last year alone, which in its system and on its surface of 9.7 million km2 has 4.1 million km of highways, it is clear that in the Republic of Croatia in the last year there was a stalemate, a total road stop. That's why certain questions are being asked here. The first question, is this how we get a different, new model that we have never seen in the construction of roads in the Republic of Croatia. That's the first question. Do we get something new through this proposal of the article and the law or continue the old model, credit responsibilities, own incomes, etc. The second question is whether revenue is provided in this way as a return to a certain level of investment. That may be the basic question when we're talking about sub-level ipsilon. If we turn the highway into a fast road, will we charge it and will the investor achieve a certain level of less invested money in the next decade as a result of the investment. We all know that only highways are charged in Croatia and income can be generated there. Everything else will be the cost. If the current policy agrees with this example that the fast road is the same as the highway substitute we think at the HDZ club that it is not. I've already listed one of the reasons why highways are being built, and that's primarily safety. When we talk about security, we have to say that over the past year, 390 people died on Croatian highways and state roads, which is less than 28, and when compared to 1990, when 1360 were killed, the effect of building highways is visible not only in that part of the reintegration, the transport integration of the Republic of Croatia, but also in raising the level of safety on Croatian roads. Of course, this objective of changing the law in part of the sub-level Ipsilon will certainly not contribute to a reduction, a possible reduction in the level of security. I will remind you only of the time between Zagreb and Rijeka we had a portion of the highway and the number of deaths that were lost almost daily on that peninsula. That's something to be clearly warned about. And what might be very important, is whether it makes sense for HAC to build something, and then someone else to manage what this law proposes, whose money will be said in investment, and whose money will be in maintenance and return. And certainly at the end of the doubt why the emergency procedure and what we've been waiting for for a year to explain is that we're going to start building all directions, and it's about the stock between Ravè and Ploč, the tunnel of St. Elijah, building a bridge over Drava at Corridor 5C, the Buševac-Lekenik section on the highway towards Sisak. It is the direction between Split and Dupolj on the Plano-Kaštel Stari and the southern bypasses around Osijek. I've already said the value, so 4 billion, of which I'm vice president says that a certain level of damage has arisen because of the delay and why now an emergency procedure when we've had a full year to solve it, and not in this way because I can't help thinking that in this way, the actual government is in some way running away from its own responsibility because it's still a question why I'm suggesting these laws in a way that maybe tomorrow we'll have to apply it in some other social infrastructure facilities or I don't know what. The HDZ Club will support this law, but purely as an expression of the desire to finally start this road construction in the Republic of Croatia, so if this was the reason why we say it, we have tried to question it, as a clear expression of the desire to continue road construction in Croatia and to finally employ a part of the construction operation and to get more employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28022	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go with the replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28023	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to start to start with a correction of an incorrect quote, China has a total of 96,000 kilometers of highways, and last year it put them on the market by 11,000, but only so much about how much attention you have on the details. What I'm about to show you is this. We in Croatia need to move away from existing practices, which is a practice that in areas where there is no roadways we do megalomanic, ultra-modern roads. Well done, good job, but a wolf's exit that only gets two hundred cars a day or less. In January, it's 60 cars a day that can't happen again. And you know why that exit happened? Because we didn't build roads and exits according to whether it made sense to build them, whether it justified it or the economy, but because it's near the prime minister's birthplace. We will no longer lead such a policy, and we must not. That's why this law is passed, and for one more reason. Do you want us to stop everything now, stop everything, say ok? More Croatian highways can't build this, the process is suspended, the contract is terminated, the pens are paid and a new contract is being concluded now from the investors of the Croatian roads to build a fast road. It's out of your mind! Such availability of state money as it has been so far must no longer be repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28024	Thank you, too. Replicate response, respected representative Jose Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28025	Thank you very much. Well, speaking of China, here I am going to say, that this country has built 4,1 million kilometers of highways over the past 10 years. 4.1 million with this 87,000 and an area of 9.7 million square miles, I certainly wouldn't have achieved this kind of economic growth and everything that's going on there if it's what you're saying. I didn't read it wrong, I'm saying what it says. And as for your observations why something needs or doesn't need the justification of building infrastructure or not, it's the eternal issue of all policies and why I don't know the exit to some part of the Dalmatine highway is being asked, and it's not being asked on the Istrian Ipsion or anywhere else. That's the question I'm saying, if you want to talk at that level here in this House, I'll allow it. You're campaigning seems to me like the mayor. You have the right to say what you want, but the infrastructure in this Republic has brought a certain level of progress especially in tourism. And all that happens if it was wrong on some side there are institutions that will give about it to their courts. It's not us here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28026	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28027	Dear fellow Boric, I am now even more troubled by China. Now I don't know, we're in doubt. 96,000 kilometers built. It's millions of miles. But I would've been even better off if you'd told me how much painting tunnels cost in China. Let's just say it's a long way from me if it's them, so maybe we could get the Chinese to paint our tunnels. That would be simpler and probably much, much cheaper. And we could finish some roads. The road is one of the weakest links in HDZ's government for sure, and that's probably going to disintegrate over the next few years. As far as the construction rate is concerned, it wasn't China that shocked me, it was Japan. Remember after the earthquake in a few days there was a completely destroyed road made new in a few days. It takes us a year to pass a law that can be made in a week. So we are a strange country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28028	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28029	Thank you, Mr. President. In one part, I would disagree with your discussion, and it refers to the comparison of the former fast road towards Rijeka and comparison with the bilogora-podravic ipilon, knowing that the road in Rijeka had only a narrow lane and that traffic accidents were happening on that tape. While the bilogor-subracial ipilon were separated two lanes in a fast road so that when you talked about her safety she would be safe anyway and God forbid she gets as soon as possible finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28030	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28031	Here's a distinguished colleague, Boric, I won't mention both Učica or Dubbaba or the painting of the tunnel, but I could even agree with most of what you said. Security on the roads, and that's probably why highways are being built, is just a question of how many miles of highways are coming in over a certain period. Also, that same mile of highway in another period. But let's let it be dealt with by competent institutions that are primarily related to the protection of legality. But security anyway. Well, since I come from Slavonia and Baranja, it's precisely that safety on these state roads in Slavonia and Baranja that's the smallest. I would like to remind you that this Croatian Parliament also adopted an amendment to me as a representative in 2007 as well, although the SDP was then banned from giving these amendments for various reasons. However, the amendment has not been practically realised to this day. It's three state highways D-46, D-118 and D-515 and D-38. So I even invited the minister, both the old and the new and the deputy ministers, to simply drive those roads because it doesn't look like a macadam anymore. And if they stay healthy after that tourist ride, if they stay healthy with all their kidneys, with their lungs, with everything that makes up the inside of the human body, then I will raise up a monument in the heart of Slavonia in Djakov. But neither Minister nor Deputy, nor I know what we're talking about, and we're talking about road safety and road construction. It's a disaster!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28032	Thank you. Next replica and respected representative Igor Češek. Here's your esteemed 9 MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28033	I agree with you that the level of traffic safety is far higher on highways than on state roads. And that is precisely why citizens and Koprivnica-križevci and Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska and Virovička-Podravska County are interested in continuing the construction of the fast road, i.e. the Podravska Ipsilon. It is one of the reasons why this part of the Republic of Croatia is connected to the rest of Croatia. So, we've been witnessing since 10 days ago that Minister Maras himself said that 4.2 billion kuna for transport infrastructure has been reserved at the Ministry of Transport. And he says that part is intended for the fast road Vrbovac-Bjelovar-Virovica, however, we do not know what part it is and when it will continue to build that road.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28034	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28035	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of yours really moved me to think one thing. It must be of interest to all of us to create a better transport infrastructure because transport infrastructure is certainly the basis of every development, the foundation of the economy. This is what Croatia needs and for which Croatia probably missed a lot of time. But today you open here a question of highway relations, fast road relations, cost-cost ratios of highway construction or on the other side of the road and the use of those same roads. Today, when we should not really return to how much Croatian highways have cost, their construction and their development, because if we had a single table of costing highway construction over the last 10 years and compared how much highway construction cost in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2006 or 2007 then we could certainly have a single mathematics of how many more highways we could have built in this last period and that all of which we mentioned today were roads, fast roads or highways could be finished. We are opening up issues of even development of the Republic of Croatia which must have potential in the economy. So here I am, starting from the perspective of Zagreb County as the ring of the City of Zagreb, asking the question of that dualism. One section that is connected to the highway and also has economic zones that want to develop and that have a perspective and another part of the county that is focused on fast roads that have no highway and certainly have a better starting position. I think it's time we started to think strategically and find a model to create equal conditions for the development of Croatia as a whole, for the development of the economy and for the creation of new jobs. If it's a fast road, if the waist said that the fast road is something that opens up more possibilities than the highway, then make it a fast road. But let's be prepared to make decisions and go that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28036	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28037	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I have rightly asked certain questions, and here we have opened a certain level of debate. Whether this is good or not will show time. I think I rightly asked the question of state funds investment through the start of a project so that it could be transferred to the fast road and the question of the return of those same funds. You just said the fast road provides better conditions than highways. I guess in a place where you live or where there's no economic zone that you won't then look for a way out of the highway this possible that's heading your way, but that's what I'm saying. We've heard a lot of talk about highways over the past 10 years. The total level of investment I managed to read is moving at a level of 60 billion kuna. Is that a lot, is it small, is a mile of highway built in the hilly area equal to a mile of built road in the lowland area, so everything is equal to us? So, to build something where there are stones and where there is no stone or on an equally demanding ground? These are questions, however, I assume that public tenders were being held, that the job was being obtained by the people under the law, and if there were certain knowledge that you alone have on that side, then I guess those institutions will end that story. The way things are now, I don't see it. You can tell me what you want for both the tunnels and this and that, but there's no charge. Is it someone's fault? I don't know, I don't know. Do you know that? You probably know, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28038	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28039	Thank you. My dear colleague, you said at the end of your debate why the emergency procedure and why have you been waiting for a year? Well, I'd like to ask you why she waited a year for you, and you must know why she's been waiting for a year. We could only see the opening ceremony before the local elections on the Bilogora-Podrav ipilon, and then there was documentation about it one point and one employee who was sitting, smoking and drinking beer, and when we asked him what he was doing, he said he was waiting. That's the way it's been waiting. If you had painted the tunnels a little less, you could have taken more seriously the construction of the highway and been more efficient, and did you want to tell the citizens of Bjelovarska-Bilogorska, Koprivnica-križevci, Virovitsk-Podravska County that they do not need the fast road because it has been looked forward to and it is very, very important for the economy of all the three counties that are naturally connected to the economy of the entire Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28040	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28041	Dear colleagues in your speech, and it seems to me that you are also a candidate for some mayor and mayor because I did not really see anything controversial, I said in my debate that we would support this law as an expression of our desire for road construction to continue in Croatia. And I've given you the reasons why I'm here. I questioned the emergency procedure because Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Grcic said these projects were mostly due to the problems of large construction companies but new contractors' associations are now involved with new project leaders, so I hope that they will be completed this year when meteorological conditions are created. That's what your vice president said. So what am I supposed to think is that for the past year we haven't had a good time and the roads have stopped. And it's not the HDZ government's fault or I don't know what it is, it's the construction firms' problems, and you're leading it into a whole other context. There's a problem. And that's because you're going to a certain candidacy, and I see that everyone there is reporting who wants to be mayors and mayors tomorrow and that the pre-election company here in the Croatian Parliament started, and we just wanted to talk about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28042	Unfortunately, the company's always in the Parliament. The eighth replica and respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28043	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is my colleague, Boric, in your presentation, you covered everything well, and you said that we would support this project by whose amendment to the law, although I am quite skeptical about it, given that in the budget of the Croatian Roads and the highway there is no money to continue to work with especially on the Podravska Ipsion. When we talk about it, the need or need of this road is clear to say that 12 thousand vehicles measured by the Institute of Virovitica justify the highway in that space. Equally, the average on the sub-level is 7,000 vehicles, which also justify the construction of the highway. On the other hand, I'd like to point out that it's not the exact information that's being served over and over again, Mr. I'm going to fight for us that nothing has ever done but dots and shovels. I will repeat, 11 km of convex route towards Bjelovar, 11 objects, bridges and overpasses that I personally visited after Mr. Minister's statement that dots and shovels were just. The most demanding object towards Koprivnica is the transition i.e. overpass across the highway. The same way that Koprivnica County brought in a spatial plan and set up that road until the town of Koprivnica wanted to do so. And today's question whether the town of Koprivnica has made a decision in the Space Plan whether it is coming to the east or to the north of the highway or a fast road. There are therefore many reasons to doubt the justification of this urgent procedure of this law and we believe that it is actually pre-election.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28044	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28045	Comrade Djakic, here I fully agree, you obviously see what others don't see. It's legitimate and it's possible. But what we all see in the Republic of Croatia is that there were two million cars on the highways last year due to the results of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. raising the prices of highways. I guess it was an interest to say people drive less expensive. It's the only fact. And when we talk about what you see, you can't see, here I come from the area of the Primorje-Gorski County, and we also had a plan to build an important highway, a Kvarner highway that goes from Rupa across the river and ends up on Yellow Lake, which is why some ministers from this government went. At least you see those 11 kilometers, we see nothing, and there's a certain level of documentation and everything else, so even good will is not lacking as far as we hear from the current authorities. But there's simply nothing to do and I don't think it's always been a problem in the law or what it says in a certain article of the law, but it's a matter of a certain level of policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28046	Thank you, too. It is up to the HDSSB representative club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28047	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. It was a small misunderstanding, but it's okay because I thought you called me for a replica, but I have a debate on behalf of the HDSSB Club of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja. Here today we are having a debate on roads, a bill on the completion of road laws with the Final Bill and an urgent procedure. For a year nothing about roads, no items in the RS budget, and now it's an emergency procedure. Today, when we discuss this at the same time, it is held in Split, at the University of Split, the tribune entitled "S fax to the EU Bureau." Just so much to compare where and what this government is doing. So for a year, no sign of road construction, but that's why the stands are organised neatly in our high schools that our young people from college will go to EU bureaus, so now such a policy will show their results very nearly unfortunately. In Slavonia it is mentioned in this, in fact it is not even mentioned in the words but we read from the media that it is done here in this legislative proposal that it covers the southern lane of Osijek and the bridge on the Drava. From some sources that I have here, and I know that on corridor 5 c, someone reads that Roman number as a letter, is the letter v, so on that corridor 5 c, and in the morning of the government of HDZ and its coalition partners was passed the Law on the financing of construction where corridor 5 c was included, in that it was the relationship between Metković-border BIH as well as the completion of the bridge on the Sava River through Svilaj, in fact Struzana, right in the Catastrian municipality of Strožana and the extension towards the Bela Manastir and the Hungarian border. In Slavonia where it is not to say the biggest hill of pumpkins, here we are late fat with the construction of corridor 5 c, and for the bridge on the river Savi which should have four strips fell the competition or the one who won the competition. I will not mention the company's names on purpose in order not to advertise or anti-reclave anyone, so that BiH and the Republic of Croatia have a bridge worth 50 as said in Bosnia 50 million converting marks or a total of about 200 million kunas is uncertain. Although there was an opening of works on the coupling between the current A3 highway and 5C corridor, which was built with an alleged location where the construction of the bridge would begin. So I'm wondering here is the deputy minister or assistant what's-his-name I don't even know how to explain it to me? On one occasion, I was lucky or unhappy in late nights to drive from Voćin towards Slatina and further towards Zagreb. But I asked the host if there was a road between Voćin and Pakrac, they said there was but that only a tractor can pass. The merger of the two counties of Požega-slavonska and Virovitica-podravska. The disaster is neither thought nor anywhere in the documents of Croatian roads, highways, governments of unclassified such a very important road. Furthermore, here it says in this legislative proposal that Croatia's state and Croatian budget this will cost nothing, that it requires no additional funding. I immediately thought that in the style of ruling to say and parties it would be a youth action, as the "partial song ori" goes, that they would do it that way, all of these roads that are drawn here. Now, I find out later that it's about 4 billion kuna. Now that nobody's going to go to the budget, it means borrowing. And whether it's in the budget or not, it's going to be in the budget that our citizens are going to pay in their high-priced or not, whether it's in the budget or not. All I'm saying is turn to that former Yugoslav way of doing the new '32 deal he was in America, so we're going to youth labor. Even though we could no longer do so since here our young people are driven to European bureaus through that stands, because we can't find jobs anyway. I'm afraid now, not mentioned here, it was mentioned that some ministers dragged for their own ends, that they dragged the roads needlessly here as you said where Dulbab's exits were, etc., unfortunately, our Slavonia never had any minister so he didn't drag anything here. Here we had the Prime Minister from rest of his soul, from the ranks of the party that was from Slavonski Brod and never the underpass on the state road, the so-called underpass. It wasn't built in Osijek, it wasn't even built until a year ago. I guess somebody's gonna remember more to say this boat and that underpass that's got 20,000 vehicles standing on it every day with 65 clogs, 20 grand cars is a traffic frequency. According to European standards, that's 10 grand allowed, and here's 20 years and more waiting to build one underpass. If this is such a problem for the state of Croatia, for HZ or the misunderstanding between who is obliged to make it, HH is so irrelevant. And it's not or should not be in the state budget. I don't know but it's really enough of that. And now here are certain to say road relations and in these more news reports than the legal proposal itself says "except for Podravska Ipsilon, this is about completing the Viaduct and the shares between Dravaca and Ploč". This means that the Zagreb-Dubrovnik highway has been changed. So instead of a full profile of highways from Dravace to Plot, there will be highways. I expect you gentlemen from the SDP that you will leave from Ploč to Dubrovnik for the sake of the ever thinner nor towards the south of Croatia, therefore the one such as the state road with two lanes. And from Cavtath to Vitala and Konaval, and to Rt. Sharply that there would be an unclassified way. Given the population policy and the way it stands with this census, it may not take more, because indeed the southern Croatia below Vitalin, Plotice, Molunat and others may not even need that much, because they will not be angry there anymore. I would honestly like to say no matter what someone thinks it is a megalomanic project or that, if we are to develop and think strategically about the future that this highway through the Republic to the south of Croatia should remain a full profile of the highway. No matter what I come from Slavonia, I speak like this. And now in connection with these election campaigns and these candidates of the mayoral candidates here or I don't know the mayors of the municipalities I have to say that actually this whole law is actually pre-election before local and regional elections. This whole proposal is in this particular function, so you don't have to report something special to each other for your own. But speaking of which, we're going to cross the A3 highway, then I have to say that the Brod-Posavia County has been waiting to build two exits on its 130-mile-long section for years. Unfortunately, we don't have a minister again, or we don't have someone lobbyist in the government to say pulls and pulls like someone did for Cross, for example. I'm glad Cross has a way out, where we're lucky to have more exits from the A3 highway than Cross does. That's just so they don't get me wrong. And in the end, the HDSSB will come and the Cross will be established, so you know, soon. In any case, any investment as Mrs. Merkel has said is welcome because when a crisis society and the state in crisis are in crisis right now investments can trigger both consumption and swing either construction or some other operationals. Unfortunately, you gentlemen have not understood or had any idea or thought about it or suggested this for a year. Where you were a year, 14 months, 13-14 months. Better ever than ever, our people say, so we'll be at the HDSSB club in our discussions about being on this bill, but here's till Friday we have time to think more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28048	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. Let's get this straight. He is the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28049	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, buddy, I have a few things to react, so maybe in this last part you've noticed it well. So certainly investment is what we shouldn't be saving at this time of crisis, but one of the intensities of this law is that these investments are actually paid to people who have received tenders and who are working on these projects. Because what was going on, you got it, so the company answered the public tender, got it, did the works, waited for the payout, and in the meantime it failed because the money never saw it. The second thing, you mention the constant corridor 5. I have to look back at one of your party colleagues who beat the public of Osijek-Baranja County, not to use a very strong word, when he said that the works had stopped, that corridor 5C was no longer being built, and then he was trying to display as his personal triumph and triumph of your party which corridor 5 is still being built. Corridor 5C is being built, built and finished, of course, which is essential for Osijek-Baranja County, but also for Slavonia and Baranja. And you've mentioned youth unemployment more than once. What particularly bothers me here is when you talk about young people who are on the market, which is a fact, we can ask why it is, but I think it is enough to indicate how much you really care about young people and the economy when your party at the head of the Commission on Economic Affairs of the Osijek-Baranja County, without underestimating that no one is qualified, suggests a man who is an assistant to the mill and barely finished primary school. My friend, I think that's enough proof of your pious concern for the economy and for the young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28050	Thank you, too. And a response to the replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28051	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, you are one simple demagogue and politician, first. Secondly, tell me when you are already for investment is the Center for Energy and their five cars, not to say blinded like Sanaders, an excellent investment for the development of Croatia, which your Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister signed together and your Minister Linic. Just tell me. Where is your Energy Centre and what it has done in a year, except it has employed your similar staffs as you employ them all over Croatia. It's your only investment, hiring cowards around Croatia. Secondly, he doesn't say that we were persuading, we never convinced anyone or the SDP, we assured them that we needed corridor 5C and construction, and the persuasion was done elsewhere. In Croatia, he assures someone. And thirdly, we pressured your government just like that here in the Parliament and everywhere we could, so we wouldn't accidentally forget corridor 5C and the Slavonic that gallop. Mr. Hajdukovic, mind your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28052	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic has something against the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28053	I certainly have an addition since I knew that my colleague Hajdukovic would be, and you can be sure if you ask Minister Vrdoljak because this government was going to stop building corridor 5C and with activities on the construction of the Drava Bridge. So ask the minister. So this wasn't about Yellow Lock where one minister was removed, not for the sake of Komadin's law, Col. Grubisic. But I am more troubled by the fact that there is no quality debate in this House, as the Constitutional Court warns. So this is the law, and you're right, you're a colleague, Grubisic, an ordinary pre-election law, and we'll have that truck with those cornerstones on the HDZ, so you want school, you want the hall there and the halls, you want the road, you want the road, you want the state road, you'll get the state road, you want the highway, you'll get it, you'll get it. Only I call again to Slavonia and the entire government and ministers, especially those who have retired and those who have returned from retirement, who are leading Croatia to come to this Slavonia, are driven by these official cars with good shockers. I guarantee, they'll come out sick, their kidneys will move, their eyes will fall out of these big holes on state roads. The amendments do not pass, so if you wanted to do something then you would have accepted a series of amendments the opposition, among other things, and the HDSSB asked for in the state budget. This is now the sale of demagogy three months before the elections and free of what you're saying to your colleague Hajdukovic, you won't be mayor, you don't stand a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28054	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here's your esteemed representative's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28055	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. I ordered, and you added more wood. [[Intruder Vinkovic: Order in Djakova may accept you.]] But what you were saying about the amendments, yes. Let's just remember, this is already the second budget, the second budget, this government, this government, the Kukuriku government Plan 25 is already bringing a second budget where we are investing the amendments neatly and in road construction. But no, God forbid an amendment would happen to the HDSSB. I asked the government to list how much money is spent on renting space in Brussels and Strasbourg for our mission, embassy, consulate. And remember, look at that. It should buy a building, a Croatian building, not rent. Well, it doesn't matter that I said it and said it. It doesn't matter if it's HDSSB, SDP, HDZ. Let's do a good thing for Croatia, for Slavonia in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28056	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28057	Thank you, Mr. President. Coliga Grubišić, of course we are all in favour of strengthening transport infrastructure and everyone is looking at it from their local let's say the aspect, mostly us from the environments that we have been neglected in the modern part of construction. You were talking about your problem in Slavonia and Baranja, and I'm going to say in the part where I feel the need to say and that's the Podravo-Bilogian Ipsilon because I personally witnessed the efforts and I myself took part in that part. And I was at that opening with the famous thing that my colleague was talking about, and I'm not sorry, because that's when it started. But I'll tell you one thing. They were present at that opening and colleagues on the left. And it's not true that nothing was done. It's done, of course, it's started, and now it's coming to the moment you were talking about in the financial section. In fact, the Minister of Transport kept saying 70, 80 million were spent. In the end, it turned out to be about 300 million kuna. And the procedures that Djakic spoke of were certainly made. But here we express fear and fear of that minister's bill. Because I'm just going to tell you one example of the schedule of funds for the ZUCs, for the County Road Administrations. Out of 400 million kuna last year, my County of Koprivnica-križevska received 13.6 million kuna, and for example, his county received 30 and something even though all parameters speak in favor of ours. And in that part about the financial moment, I am afraid, because the money is not foreseen in the budget, and in that part is expressed in fear, because we survived in Koprivnica-Kryzeva County, bilogoric time various, is promised, said money is not and in that part we smoke in the cold. That's why I hold that and this debate of yours in that sense that this is a pre-election one move anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28058	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll start a colleague at the end of your line. Namely, one minister was tried for a spotlight that introduced them to a stadium in his hometown. Here's another minister to his ZUC in his county. Well, maybe there'll be courts yet, I don't know and I don't plead for it, but I guess it's all by the letter of the law. If he doesn't, he'll see himself later. There are days, there are years. But as far as what was made is concerned. I just know that the lambs ate and that she was thrown at all the openings, so I'm surprised that when you're in power for eight years, you from HDZ are complaining that nothing has been done in your county. Well, that doesn't make any sense to me. So why didn't you force your Prime Minister, your minister, or he was just making reflectors in his stadiums? I don't know what's going on here? Why are you even complaining? Except that you ate the lambs at the opening of the viaduct, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28060	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28061	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 216 has been injured. A colleague of Grubisic's represents incorrect things. So I didn't say nothing was done. It's made significant. So they're made in the part of the Koprivnica Ipsilon, and now you're talking about lambs like some kind of irony, etc. Well, the lambs ate in many other places, but a significant part of the procedure was made here, and one procedure was started, of course, that should have continued. And in that part, you don't say the right thing, and that's how you disrespect me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28062	Your Honor, Article 216 has not been harmed, that is clear to you. You've abused the Rules of Procedure, but I won't give you a warning, but I warn you it's not correct. 216 would be really hurt if we didn't talk about the subject that we're all talking about today. Thank you very much. We're done with the eye, you'll lose this session, obviously, the right to correct the breach of the Rules of Procedure to announce it. Now we're going to discuss the next club. It is a club of independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Apparently, all the other clubs are addicted. Here you are, dear representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28063	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we will support the proposal of this law, first of all, from what some works will be restored and going towards the completion of some shares and to state roads, highways or county roads and local roads. We will therefore support the proposal regardless of a stalemate that is not so clear as it looks from the proposal and surely that the pre-election campaign will reflect not only on this debate but also on other debates, but also on other discussions, which the president allows, allegedly legal and legitimate. I would not want to divide, even when it comes to this bill between the left or right options, but rather what Mr. Boric said would support this proposal not because everything is fine but because we are going to do something. So I would be very happy to be in the mood and pleased to accept the proposal to declare amendments to the law and to continue the work, not for a short time until the elections are held, but for the papers to continue and later. I am interested here because the debate at the local level prevails, I am interested and I encourage one debate and one proposal, which is to count on the connection of Knin with Dalmatia and Knina with Croatia. We from Dalmatia, thanks to Dalmatini, have shortened by 1 hour from Dalmatia to Zagreb, but we pay for it, and it is not a solution for us because Dalmatina took her to Posedarje and via Maslenica, which is often closed. And we believe that there are and that the state needs to secure alternative directions. In this sense, I plead that on the fast road from Dupolje towards Knin, Knin joins Knin with Dalmatia and Knin to make a fast road tunnel to Gračac, not to climb either the road or the train up to the top and extends for an hour by means of any means, to create a tunnel, to connect Knin by the fast road with Gračac and the fast road to Split, or southern Dalmatia or over the Pelješka bridge to join Dubrovnik and to get to Zagreb faster and to have an alternative road to close Maslenica when the weather is up, etc. As for the continuation of the highway from Ploč to Dubrovnik, I am thinking, given the lack of funds, and they are not planned in the budget to be good to go on a fast road, the number of vehicles heading south will be reduced, and the fast road will also solve this traffic route very quickly. It costs less, they say 30% of the highway, and it would be easier to build. As far as Croatia's connection with the south is concerned, I think we should think carefully and appeal to the MPs that BiH does not, in my opinion, have an exit to the sea via Neum. They can only have an exit to the sea if Croatia gives them a concession on the part of Luke Ploče. It would be their way out and that would be their trade with the Mediterranean and the Middle East countries and Croatia would get there and they would get a way out of the sea, and that in the form of Croatia's merger with the south, the direction which would be the cheapest and most efficient. These are some of my thoughts and independent representatives, and I think that should be taken care of. I particularly stress the connection of Knin as the most vital city in Croatia with Dalmatia and Croatia. That the best way to connect Knin is to get away from Dugopolje and this fast road Solin-Klis which is built so long another tape and they are all trafficked, all the machinery is removed that should be done as soon as possible because on that road during the tourist season traffic is about 40,000 vehicles in one day. This is inadmissible for the second city to be slowed down by traffic and disputed traffic. How much of this House will have influence and opportunities for things to happen for the common good we will see, but as independent representatives we will give support to start working, to continue the work and to achieve better integration of the south and north of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28064	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28065	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Sir and counterpart Grubisic, therefore, it is not disputed that no one in this House will raise hands to continue road construction in the Republic of Croatia. However, here they have two basic things that I have not heard either the applicant's reply or in this debate, which is that this bill violates international accounting standards and the Accounting Act, which is the elemental thing that you cannot invest your money in someone else's underlying asset. And the other thing is most roads and highways in the Republic of Croatia are built out of credit, you asked for credit, when you opened a loan tender, then you also offered from which funds you will repay and you either charge the toll or you have other revenues. Is that from the price of a liter of gasoline, is that from the fee paid on registration, which is your safe income based on which you guarantee that you will pay back something. And you, when you change the road category, you change the source of your income. So you have problems with those who gave you credit and you automatically break a series of rules. So it's not the law that's disputed, but it's all the other acts. The same story for you is when construction of highways or fast roads destroys a series of local roads where trucks bring goods on that highway and later it remains on the burden of units of local self-government to repair that they simply have no money for it because major Croatian highways cannot invest money in roads that are not their jurisdiction. So this is just one attempt that Mr. Deputy Minister has been legally unsettled and I'm surprised that the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not warn these things. All those who deal with finance, who once participated in corporate management, know that you cannot invest your own resources in someone else's underlying assets without its consent. Also, if you invest correctly, you need to know why you normally invest that part of your funds. Okay. Thank you. I'll continue next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28066	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28067	Very short. I think Mr. Ivan Grubisioć made a lapus when he said that Knin should connect with Dalmatia and Croatia. I think it's some old history cards that we shouldn't be talking about here in the Parliament in this context.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28068	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28069	The fact is that Knin is isolated and it's only the center of attention one day a year, that's 5. Kolovoza. If we think of Knin, then we should think longer, we should connect it with the rest of Dalmatia and Croatia in a different way, and allow us to come to Zagreb faster and not depend on the arrival of Zagreb on the time and closure of Maslenica or St. Rock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28070	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28071	Thank you, Mr. President. So dear colleague Don Ivan Grubisic presented his vision and way of transport of the south of Croatia in his presentation. It is his right, clearly to assess how and how it is good to connect the south of Croatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. But I would like to say that in the past 20 years several studies have been done, traffic studies on how Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County are connected. As a result of numerous analyses, the study, as well as how to link the south of Croatia, prevailed that the city of Dubrovnik, Konavle, the Dubrovnik coast, Peljesac and that part of Croatia should be connected with a full profile of the highway that would not only function in the traffic connection of only that part of Croatia, but would also be part of the Adriatic and Osko Corridor that would not end up on Osojnik or on the Threshold hill would already go further towards Montenegro, towards Albania and would end up in Greece. Therefore, any other public road profile would be that fast or other road, in any case not a permanent solution, would not be an integral part of that one Adriatic and Osko Corridor. And as for this section relating to the passage through Neum and the position of neighbouring country in the BIH, I think these are two separate objects that should not be connected. There is no need to link the passage through Neum, or better said connecting Croatia's extreme border with the status of the Ploče port and using the Ploče port for the needs of the neighbouring country. Namely, the Republic of Croatia also today provides BIH state's most favoured state in the port of Ploče, hence such a unique and possible way of using the port itself and the traffic connection of the south is only correct to sea... I'll walk. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28072	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ilija Filipovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28073	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I'll refer only to part of Mr. Bruiser's presentation. It is mentioned, I am certainly in favour of starting these investments, so simply without investment, this country has no future like any other and let investment business take place because in transport infrastructure it is very necessary and we know how it was. When Germany was in the biggest recession, then Prime Minister Merkel opened an investment cycle in Germany. As for BIH and connecting the passage of corridor 5 c, it must pass over many rivers, which is... I told us a lot of rivers, and Drava and Sava and Neretva to come, to get that corridor to Ploč and there should be a lot of bridges, and so I absolutely support that one story. As regards the integration of southern Croatia with the rest of Croatia, the passage through Neum is said by the local authorities of the authorities of Hercegovina-Neretva County and the maritime city of Neum, hence the coastal city of Neum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not talking about going out to the open sea, it's a special story that's speculant, it's certainly accepted by people in Neum, but it has to be a temporary solution, it needs to be focused on the final solution, and it's building the Peljega Bridge, and it should definitely have some kind of connection with the south go to what counterpart Bačić said and give priority to the Jandransko-Jonski road which is an international project. The Port of Ploche will be secure when corridor 5C reaches its end. And when we mention many roads, to mention one more, and it refers to a very important one where only animals have made one path, it's between Ilock and the Strošinians to Gunja to connect so Ilok to the rest of Eastern Slavonia So take care of that too. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28074	Thank you very much. Continuing the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is now the turn of the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The road law stipulates that public roads are classified depending on their social, transport and economic importance in highways, state roads, county and localities. This law proposes that in cases where a public road classified on a highway or on a state road is classified in another group in such a way as to cross the highway into a state road and vice versa, and has already begun to build a particular section or at a high stage of construction, legal persons who have managed that road by the moment of classification should be completed. This is a very interdependent sentence, but I think it's quite clear what the legislator was going to say to this. This law solves a practical problem or gives practically one solution and the HNS will support it. Of course, every road debate, especially on highways in Croatia, is a subject similar to some of the topics that we love very much. Football. Everyone knows everything, the waist is, of course, the least asked and the least listened. So I'm going to say a few lines on the subject. Since it could be endlessly discussed here, who is more or less responsible for the current situation in Croatian road construction and numerous problems in the functioning of state-run companies, because we unfortunately spent too much on highways in this sense that we did not spend rationally. The evidence of this is unfortunately also quite a number of affairs that have been followed by our state-owned companies that manage these highways, as well as contractors and co-operatives of contractors on certain shares that have been built and to reflect the facilities that have already been built. There are, of course, countless reasons that at this point make it very difficult for the normal course of investments and construction in Croatian road construction, but all of which can ultimately be subjected to one basic reason, which is that there is no financial resources or that there is no capital missing. This was about a highway construction plan that was very well set up in the early 2000s and included a whole network of highways. So the network was set up in a way that these shares that are now said to be missing and that the question of when they will be built and they were included in that plan, or in the model of financing the construction of the highway network. Unfortunately, during ten years of highway construction, there have been significant breakthroughs in road construction financial plans and have been spent in some way on the funds they were supposed to be, meaning some of the shares that were to be built at some later stage. We, too, have, in these 10 years, unfortunately, often confused building priorities, so I have to be here because a lot of localpatriot debated from this pay phone is another thing, and that's certainly the most frequent River-Zagreb highway is not built on the priorities that the profession has said, but some other stakeholders are not to mention them here, since I also think they are important, but certainly they were not at least priority at that time, not at their financial cost, built later. No one has ever calculated what would have happened if, say, a full profile of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway had been built three years earlier. The highway would probably have a lot of revenue, so it would probably be much easier to finance some projects that are not under concession or that are not charged as a detour of the city of Rijeka. Why am I talking about all this? So because I want to draw attention to the fact that we are all proud to have built highways in key segments we have connected Croatia. even envys our closest neighbours who, in these difficult recession times in the wider region, even throughout Europe, can hardly dream that in some short time these projects will be able to be done in their own countries. However, we must also admit that we did not have the best control in road construction, and there is countless evidence of that. Also since there was a section of the planned highway between Križišće and Žuta Lokva. Of course, personally, since I came from that very neighborhood, I was very committed to at least starting to build that stock. But given what I said earlier, it means awareness, that there is no financial resources, that for some of these shares we will find very difficult to find a concessionaire in view of their cost-effectiveness, probably some of these shares will have to wait for some better times, and if we go to build them at all, we could probably just build them out of the budget. The budget we know is not in a position to engage in such large investments. And if you allow yourself also to say here that, then I think that for the region from which I come at this point would be a more important and better decision to build a new university hospital than to build a highway between Crossroads and Yellow Locks. Although of course someone will say we're chasing pears and apples, but ultimately if it were a budget investment then my voice would go and every reasonable I think a citizen of our region would vote for the construction of a hospital. So when we talk about investments in road construction and that idea that somehow took us all at one point, conditionally speaking good times of economics, that everyone will have a highway in full profile up to their home threshold, I think we need to revise those ones first of all thinking, and then, of course, finally start listening to the profession of what kind of roads, which the profiles should build, especially for these shares that we know today, in full profile, are certainly creating new losses for the Croatian state. Thank you very much. Of course, we will support this law for our practical reasons in this urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28076	Thank you, too. Now let's go to the replicas that have been reported quite a bit. The first replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28077	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague, you said the funds were used irrationally. We're probably having some affairs, and it's all public knowledge, and none of them can run away from it or run away from it. But I'm asking you, in 2011, a profit in public enterprises of 550 million kuna, 2012 during your power is now a loss of 250 million. So the difference is 800 million. So you've managed in a year to crack, waste, lose, I don't know which one, I wouldn't say some other qualifications, 800 million kunas in just a year plus a billion kuna which is the government's own vice president, my Splitian Branko Grcic said was ruined, a billion kuna lost, your colleagues listen well, on account of what you've been late and what you've been sleeping for a year. You ruined a billion and 800 kuna in a year until you hit the palm of your hand. You're a total failure. And there's nothing else you can say. And what you can now just give an interpretation in a short two-minute line. In 2000, when the Split-Zagreb highway had its contours, outlines, tunnels, etc., you waited two years and when the elections came in 2003 you didn't know what to do with the power, then you continued to work the highway, you panicked. That's how this law, sorry God of this time and this paper. This is just one pre-election law, you don't know what you're going to do now because all economic indicators are down there, nothing's being built in the state, and now you're going to tell the people that with one piece of paper you're going to run it, whatever you're going to run, so who's been bothering you in a year...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28078	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28079	Thank you very much. A Turkish colleague, apparently justifying a stalemate or not building roads in the Republic of Croatia in these 13-14 months ruling in the Kukurik coalition, says she lacks capital if I have heard and understood well. So if we read well this legislative proposal here says that we do not need funds from the Republic of Croatia's budget, in these materials that we have received. So if they don't need the funds we've been waiting for for a year and a half, not a year, that's 13-14 months to start exactly what you're saying right now. Furthermore, you said, I call it the lyco-Primoral Ipsilon, so Križiste-Yellow Lokva road, so what your colleague Komadina is from where you live, so he left, so they say, so so he says. So about the need to build such a highway so we don't travel to Rijeka to go to Bosiljev and then use two floors instead of one hypotension, it's understandable and understandable to everyone. But to reduce the profile of so-called. Dalmatians or Adriatic-Ionian highways that should bring Albania and Greece together are truly unreasonable. It is completely unreasonable, regardless of how you say finance, and as you treat them best, Mr. Marasovic actually turns out to be harmful. Furthermore, when we talk about savings and efficiency, there used to be a road to Varazdin-Koprivnica-Virovica-Slatina-Nasice-Vukovar-Ilock-Zupanja, it is also a response to fellow Filipovic, but there is no one else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28080	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28081	Thank you very much, President. Well, I'd like to replicate to an esteemed colleague in the area where she referred to her priorities, i.e. that the Rijeka-Zagreb highway should have been built earlier, so that it would have better results today. The results also last year say that this road records a 1.7% drop in traffic, regardless of what was built in full profile, and I experience this as a result of the purchases resulting from the increase in tolls on that stock as well as from the Dalmatina shares and others managed by the Croatian highways and the ARZ. That's the facts. You said highway A-7 so-called. Quartern highways are not started. The fact is different. The highway's started. It is built 34.4 kilometers, starts at the Slovenian border of Rupa via Rijeka, and should end up on the Žutoj Lokva where it would reach a full length of 103.5 km. But that's not the government's priority. That's why we saw him go, and one minister as an explanation of why he's leaving, and the question is when he's going to become one. I will remind you of the time in 2003 and the time when the HNS authorities also had a portfolio of public works and the possibility that this road of Rijeka – Zagreb would end up in full profile. That wasn't the HNS priority back then. Roads were built towards Varazdin and some other directions. However, only when HDZ arrived did the road end up in full profile. It was obviously an example of setting priorities, and you need to apply that criticism to yourself, to your party, to the people who run your party because they should have done it a long time ago. It's the only thing to mention, not to mention the debts that were then incurred, and today they're not mentioned even though everyone is now calling back for some money spent in advance. Remember the debate in 2004 when they played let's say here in the Parliament, stories played about 6 or 7 billion kunas of contracted works to be continued. The HDZ did not refer to what was but continued to work and build and a large part of road infrastructure was created.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28082	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Replica response, respected representative Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28083	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric, I must stress that at the beginning of the debate I spoke in principle about road construction and that I did not mention any political party and not one government, not a single prime minister, but that I pointed out the shortcomings that were constantly occurring in all 12, 13 years of intensive highway construction and I did not mention anyone in my discussion of responsibility that it was wrong. But we need to be aware that many things have been done wrong and that it will no longer be able to go unlike your discussion where you try and your failures within those 12 years that you don't want to admit at all with the slightest thought, and they are and they're factual. Unlike you, I've been honest, so I've talked about everyone who's done this job in principle for the past 13 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28084	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28085	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Turkish counterparts, this Law retains an existing investor on a particular road in a way that, based on the Decision on the classification of public roads, individual roads can be crossed into a lower category of highways in the state road. However, the decision on the classification is made by the minister. So, the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia is now under the authority of a certain highway road road road to the state road. Unfortunately, this cannot be done by the minister, i.e. there are other acts, and I will discuss this later in an individual debate that defines the transport infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. And when this act defines a particular road, its characteristics, cross-border and long-term profiles, then it determines which body, which public enterprise in Croatia, is the investor on that road. Therefore, the decision on classification comes post-festum, not before deciding on the construction of a particular road. So it seems to me, too. That's where I agree with Mr. Shucker. When it comes to the construction of highways, the investor can only be Croatian roads or the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. As far as national roads are concerned, they are Croatian roads. Therefore, I see no reason why when it is established that there has been a change and that a particular road is no longer a highway, a particular road is already a state road that then this continuation of financing has not taken over and a public company whose property it will be and which road will be held during its use and maintenance. So it's rather controversial to leave an individual public enterprise to finance other people's property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28086	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28087	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, your colleagues Turina Đurić compared the roads, building roads with football in which, as everyone knows, they probably allude us here in this House of Commons. I personally know something about the construction of roads because I am in my unit of local self-government we really have quite a lot of these unclassified roads paved and built by the system of cots, cumming, cumming, first, second layer, then the banks come, and in these larger order is similar only to coming and following objects. The other thing you said was that we speak patrioticly. I think it's legitimate and it's okay. And you are even in part of your debate, and we who come from Koprivnica-Krysjevnica and Bjelovarska or Virovitica-Podravska County are always thinking about our Podravsko-Biogorje ipsion, and therefore we are very happy to start that and where certain procedures were made, of course, according to the rules of the profession in which you say. And here it is said that the waist is always going to these complicated overpass objects, etc., goes and in that part is made about 7 of these extremely important ones, and of course part of that crib is made. Now he's coming and I think we should continue on these grounds, and now there's that key moment that you're talking about, which is finance. And that's where we express the skepticism, unfortunately because we don't see the means we have, and since we have bad experience, we from the Koprivnica-Crying County in that part we smoke in the cold and I'm afraid this won't be as much as my colleague Grubisic said, not only roasting lambs, but I'm afraid this is only on this white paper painting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28088	Thank you too, colleague Milinkovic. It remains a rule to learn, learn and learn. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next line, the respected representative Ana Devčić Komararic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28089	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's what I noticed, my colleagues, that in your part of the debate you mentioned to Rijeka, so you spoke quite locally, and since we're coming from the same area and you mentioned one thesis, which is a choice of priorities. So, Yellow Lock or KBC River. So, since we come from the same neighborhood and that we care about each other, we probably also care about Yellow Lokva and KBC, and I'd like to remind all of you here together and myself that this year, the RH will only pay 10 billion kuna for interest, and we know that Yellow Lokva comes somewhere around 2 billion kuna, and the first phase of KBC Rijeka is about a billion kuna. And also my colleague Milinkovic in the replica mentioned his end and the money skeptic, I say that there was no debt of 10 billion kuna we could have built the first phase of KBC Rijeka and Yellow Lokva, and probably a colleague of Milinkovic in his area as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28090	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. We have exhausted the list of registered clubs of representatives on this topic in the Croatian Parliament. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. The first in line is Honorable Representative Damir Cain. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this matter. Next is Honored Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28091	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I've looked around this hall, this assembly, where Cain is, if he's there, but here we haven't found him, so I hope he comes, that he'll be back soon. So, I don't know where he's sitting right now, that's not clear to me, is it? But okay, so this law I was talking about on behalf of the club and now here's after certain thinking and all these speeches that were slowly crystallizing that one point that I'm going to say a few more words about. The adoption of this legislative proposal turns out to be as if the Government of the Republic of Croatia had been confused that in the budget for these two budgets that she was making, in fact, nothing about this matter, the construction of roads and highways had done anything. And now, after that confusion, the minister thought of the misery that by redeploying the replacement of the state road in the freeway or somehow allowing without hitting the state budget, it doesn't cost anything, and they say it's 4 billion, and now I don't know how, so to start the road construction anyway. If, now that we're hearing about the return of large interest, it's not 10 but 12 billion, this year 17 billion, etc. So in fact, at a time when there are 3 months to local and regional elections, 3.5 is this and given these discussions and replicas where the most candidates for executive power in their cities and perhaps the counties are the most likely to run for executive power, is it all clear that this law is also for the purpose and for the purpose of highlighting those who will say something and run for seats in their units of local self-government? You say, someone here said to envy our neighbors on such beautiful highways. I'd say not to envy us but to admire us. We admire ourselves, and it's really wonderful to travel. However, it is not clear then that by changing the status of highways in the state road or half-way, we reduce the number of km of highways built, while at the same time competing for concessions of giving, i.e. fiscalisation of Croatian highways. So isn't it better when you have more miles to give, there'll be more money than concessionaires than when you have less miles of highways? Is that contradictory? Well, yes. And now we're reducing the highway profile from Ravca to Ploč, even if it's even worse still. Well, you see, people are interested in being a full profile to Dubrovnik then maybe they'd rather buy, rather go into a concession, fiscalize highways as they say. Although I am not in favour of fiscalising highways at all, and I think that the incompetent government and incompetent administration in the Croatian highways is the reason why the idea of fiscalising Croatian highways has ever occurred. Travelling with Corridor through Neum and it is well said here I mean here, Mr. Bačić, that Croatia must finally integrate its territory regardless of any other country or state, regardless of their views Croatia must be connected roadsidely than I said before from Vitalina or Cape Ostrov and all the way north to Međimurje or here to Ilok. This has nothing to do with it and on this Croatian Government and this if Croatia is Croatia and it is called Croatia has to do with whatever the requirements of the BIH are they legal and most often illegal and unnecessary and connected to some port of Ploče which has nothing to do with it. Croatia must, and this government can really make a lot of money, and such legal proposals cannot. It's said here in the debate that it's the waist that decides. It's interesting that during HDZ, one profession needs a full highway somewhere, and this SDP profession says it needs a half-way. What kind of waist is that? So it's not about the profession? The waist knows its own if it will be objective and will work normally. In fact, it's political decisions, no profession decides. The profession is only in the service of politics and nothing more and it is quite clear. One set said to the waist like this, and the other set said it wasn't like this. And that's the waist. It's also true that here's the desire for this road construction law, we're lucky it's a sunny day. I expect that soon meteorological conditions will be such that as soon as this law is adopted by emergency procedure, we adopt that the buffers start from the construction of the highway on corridor 5 c, bridge via Sava, bridge over the Drava and all of these other objects here planned here. Here's God to have mercy on us and God, to give us good weather, meteorological conditions, and let's see the application of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28092	We have two replicas on this exhibit. Branko Hrg called.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Grubisic, you said the government was confused so she didn't provide road construction funds. I'd say the government didn't get lost, but the government got confused. Since I come from the Cross from this part of the building of this Podravo-Bilogian Ipsilon and according to Koprivnica and according to Bjelovar, I must say that there is definitely one confusion in the work. The highway that was started was built still and is being built today. Although we have both in the town of Križevci and in the office of Koprivnica-križevci County letters from the rest of the ministry, the works are being stopped, the road is being cut off and it will be re-tegrated and it will move on. This amendment of the law, in the end, says that it will continue to build as it was built, that the same legal person will build it to the end, and now it confuses me all together, but I'm looking forward to just one thing. I am pleased that a finally recognized mistake, that the Resort Ministry and the Government saw that it was not good to stop investment, that road construction was necessary for all those people who registered trucks and entered the business, signed contracts to preserve jobs. And I'm glad it continues. This amendment of the law in the final case in this confusion seems only to be complicated to show that it is now someone else's project, that it is not the project that was started, but that it will be called a little differently. I'm saying this responsibly, I'm saying, because the minister in the current class of this session said that I don't know that spent, destroyed a billion kunas. I have a memo from the ministry saying that in May of last month, at the end of May of last year, it was spent on the Gradec- Križevci-Vojakovci Kloštar 150 million kuna plus VAT, so I'm asking myself why so much dust, why we throw so much dust in the eyes. Granted, we made a mistake, that the road should be built, that this law has been amended because of it and that it is further built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28094	The replica is in line with the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28095	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrg, it is true that the political vanity and the narcissism of which will be prescribed in the matter of whom the merits for the construction of something will be prescribed has led to the fact that here the project of building that part of the road towards you has been blocked, to say, I do not see you well, so now it turns out that the project here is this Kukuriku Coalition if a lot of things have already been done in it, but the works are also stopped. To begin again with this government's initiative and this minister. Here's the one, I'd say political vanity, inconsistency, and in this particular example, you don't actually listen to the profession, economic, economic, construction, etc. But since it is as you say yourself that this confusion under the allegations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has led to this, it is also confusion and it is not a decision to stop investment. Here you are, given that you're the president of the HSS, and you're the one who's having lambs, and you're going to start working on your part, on your stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28096	The second line is respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28097	Here you are, Mr. Bruiser, talking about the fiscalization of the highway. I will remind you of some more fiscalizations in the mid-90s, the fiscalized Croatian banks, then the fiscalized Croatian telecommunications, then the fiscalized Ina for the benefit of the then double smaller partner, the Agricultural Land Act is fiscalized by the remaining state agricultural land. In the next item of the agenda on the electricity market de facto we will talk about the fiscalisation of the Croatian electricity industry and the fixedization of these are actually, we are all clearly sold, and after that remains only for fiscalising Croatian forests, Croatian waters and then we are calm, more national and national wealth owned by Croatian citizens are not available.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28098	And this reply is respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28099	Thank you, colleague Djurovic. You have well noticed the fiscalization, and here is now a new name for what was 90s and for the criminal conversion and privatisation of everything you have said you have forgotten that this government has already announced and implemented the actual sale or fiscalisation of Croatia Insurance, the golden coke of the only large Croatian bank, "large" in relation to some come and did not, therefore the Croatian Post Bank. Such a harmful policy has brought Croatia's state and Croatian people to these branches. And we all know who was doing it, which governments were regardless of those from 2000 to 2004 or from 2004 to 2012, and nothing better is this present one, too, because we see that fiscalisation flows and continues to sell out Croatian treasure. So here you read yourself just before that 15 tons of gold from Croatia was sold out, only for the last year. So what do we talk about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28100	The debate will now be held by the distinguished representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The government proposes this bill to us to adopt suggesting that there is one small, which is true, and a short change because it is just 1 article of this law, which is a change of technical nature only, which is not true. In this law, it follows that important strategic traffic routes in Croatia will be built on the basis of a decision on the classification of public roads as to whether a roadway will be a highway or a state road will be decided by the minister by his decision on the classification of these roads in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, the law suggests that public roads are built in Croatia on the basis of a decision on the classification of public roads, which is not true. Namely, planning, construction and maintenance of public roads is primarily carried out long-term on the basis of the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by this House on 12 November 1999. Under this strategy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is drawing up medium-term plans and three medium-term plans have already been adopted on this trail. The first medium-term plan was adopted in 2001 to 2004, the second medium-term plan was adopted in 2005 to 2008, the third medium-term plan was adopted in 2009 to 2012. I do not understand why the Government has not yet adopted a medium-term plan for building and reflecting public roads in Croatia for the period 2013-2016. From this mid-term plan, the Government is obliged to adopt an annual plan for the construction and maintenance of public roads in Croatia, so this government also adopted the Annual Plan for 2012 but did not adopt an annual plan for 2013 which also seems to me to be a lack in the work of the Government because the plan would, as well as the mid-term period for 2013-2016, be the yearly road construction and maintenance plan for 2013 said which routes will be built in the Republic of Croatia and in what way. And these documents require a public hearing so that we can see whether or not it is justified to build a certain direction towards Bjelovar and Koprivnica in the profile of fast roads, state roads or highways. It turns out this way that the minister himself will decide whether a particular stock will be in a profile full of highways or be some kind of county or maybe local road. Therefore, this law is not clear to me at all. How is it that one article gives the Minister the power to regulate the basic road infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia? Instead of the government doing its job, which is to do a medium-term public road construction programme in the Republic of Croatia by 2016 and to build on this medium-term programme what they do according to the commitment strategy of the annual plan then they would know what and how they intend to build in the Republic of Croatia. Not only that, but this law gives power to the minister to decide and classify public roads in the Republic of Croatia fully degrade spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, every road that is planned in the highway profile is contained and forms an integral part of the spatial plan of counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. And based on these spatial-planning documents, each of these roads has been granted its building permit. In that building permit, it is clear that the project and the coster and everything that a particular road should contain when building acts are issued for it. Now, the minister should absolutely degrade, undo all that was carried out through a public debate in Croatia when plans were made at the county level and when spatial plans were adopted at the level of municipalities and cities. I don't understand how now some road by decision of the minister would become a state road, and before that was a public road without anyone asking the county that had already drawn out, determined, set highway routes in full profile? How is it that, without units of local self-government, a road will now become on a lower road or a national road, for example, into a local road, or how will the highway now not built and for which an investor has been established and which is beginning to be built become a lower road? In this way we allow this law to be simple and local self-government and all strategic documents brought by the Parliament to simply ignore and that now as the minister decides we will build profiles of individual roads in the Republic of Croatia. The transport infrastructure shall be determined by the strategic documents adopted by the Assembly as it determines the economic development of the state or part thereof. And it can't be left to one man's decision so it's him and the minister or someone else. Therefore, I think that at least this law should have been passed easily and yet bring it forward by an urgent procedure when it will need to change building permits for the implementation of this law, and before they will need to change spatial plans. I don't know how this government is going to change the building act so easily, make it possible to redeploy or lower the rank of a particular road. That's why it's going to take time, I suppose, and this debate, and this law, I think, will certainly open up a public debate. And another thing, when we're talking about those roads that change their categorization, but I wish I'd heard from Mr. Deputy about what we're gonna do with those roads we stopped for or maybe that we gave up. I would like to hear today from the Government's representative what the situation is about the Peljega Bridge, whether the study that we have here in this House is told that this is where the European Commission is going to work. This study, as far as I have information, is not going to go to determine who's going to finance the Pelješki bridge, but this study is going to tell us if we need the Peljeski bridge at all, that's the difference. The study we expect to be done in Brussels should point out the justification, i.e. the inexcusability of the construction of the Peljega Bridge, not of who will finance the bridge. One of the reasons the Croatian government stopped building the bridge was that there was no money in the state budget on the one hand and in the Croatian Roads budget. But, Mr. Deputy, I would ask you to answer me how it was that there was no money for the Peljeljski bridge, for example, and at its 53rd session on 20 September last year, the government decided on the procedure for the realization of an additional investment cycle of road construction on public roads in the Republic of Croatia, which you decided to charge Croatian roads for 400 million kuna to invest on other people's property. So you have no money in Croatian roads for construction and investment on your own property such as the Pelješki bridge, and at the same time you have money, i.e. you owe Croatian roads worth 400 million kuna to invest on the county roads. You know very well that one programme was made by the County Road Administrations in the Republic of Croatia, which should have spent those 400 million kunas, for which there was not enough money to continue the construction of the Pelješki Bridge. In the last year, around 280 million kuna was planned for the construction of the Pelješko Bridge, which is, you agree with me, less than 400 million kunas that Croatian roads will not invest on their property but will pass them on to the county road administrations that will then be working on some small projects in Croatia and I guess that would be completed before the elections because these smaller projects in a particular county will then be realised faster and then the government will have opportunities before the elections... and fewer projects for which Croatian roads have been entrusted, passed on to the county road administrations, will be able to open, cut, cut, cut the tapes etc., etc. According to my conclusion, that individual roads in the Republic of Croatia could not be re-purposed, this decision on re-use or re-pretegorisation or new classification cannot be based on the decision of the Minister, it can only be based on a way for the Government to make a medium-term plan, and this four-year programme for the period 2013-2016 which you have not done. Then as an implementing act stemming from this medium-term plan is the annual plan for the maintenance and construction of public roads in Croatia which you did not do for 2013, at least I did not see on the government's pages and pages of our resolute Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, and only when you did all this we knew which directions you would change...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28102	Time's up for this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28103	And what about these highways, or public roads, will eventually be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28104	Thank you, too. This exposure caused a whole series of replicas, nine of them. The first one came from a respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28105	Thank you, Vice President, for seeing the tile. Here it even says 007 so it's different from the others.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28106	Comrade Vinkovic, you can't answer for a replica to paralyze with me. Please state your line. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28107	I'm not having sex with you, I'm just thanking you. That's two different things. When I'm pollemized, then I'll pollemize.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28108	Let's read the Rules of Procedure, see if you can figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28109	Dear counterpart Bačić, I agree with you even though your government did not do otherwise, that it completely excluded the influence of local and regional self-government on this categorization of roads where many state roads at that time, it was during that period in 2000-2003, so the state roads crossed to the level of county roads, and certain county roads crossed to the level of local ones. Not to mention the state of these state roads that changed their categorization. In the same way this is done by the Ministry and this government because this is obviously Croatia's path to decentralisation where the decision of local and regional self-government is completely excluded. And my colleague Grubisic, since he didn't see the vice president, you mentioned billions of dollars...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28110	Comrade Vinkovic, you know that you must not do this now because you have responded to the replica of your colleague Bačić and you cannot answer from your colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28111	Look, you can't interrupt me all the time, either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28112	I can warn you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28113	Take a pill, calm your nerves, and that's fine...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28114	I'm perfectly calm, please stick to the Rules of Procedure like all other MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28115	Well, I wouldn't say you're calm when you keep in my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28116	I'm not getting into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28117	Well, here's my colleague Bačić, since one of the MPs has mentioned the billions that will be invested, I would also like to know the answer to what's going on with the fate of the Peljega Bridge. We had a chance yesterday to see a new model of building a bridge below sea level, although these works have been invisible so far, worked beneath the surface of the sea, but certain contracts with contractors have been signed. And if we had lost this year, I believe that at least two support would have been built and that the Croatian state would not have lost on the basis of such a bad decision, it would have lost the extra penalty unless someone had pressed against the wall with a gun and said give up everything and that contract signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28118	Comrade Vinkovic, does the Rules of Procedure mean anything to you? In more than 40 seconds, did you pass the time? ... And until then, no? [[You can't hear him.]] Okay. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's the respect of fellow Vinkovic. In everything I agree with you, I just don't agree with one. So the decision to sort out is an act that comes after the event. The decision to sort a road cannot determine what it will look like. Namely, when the criteria are established which, which make up a certain road, then the minister passes through all roads in Croatia and says this road because of both these and these reasons is local. This road is for these reasons state, this road is for these and these reasons, criteria etc. It's a highway. Therefore, it is an act that cannot precede the decision on what transport infrastructure in Croatia will look like. These are other acts, which are longer-term and medium-term plans of the Croatian government based on the main strategic document to be adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament brought it, I say, '99. and from it come all other acts based on which it was built in the Republic of Croatia. We cannot now put all these acts aside from the Parliament and brought by the Government and now we will be building and maintaining, building roads in Croatia based on how Mr. Minister will determine whether the road towards Koprivnica, for example, according to Bjelovar, will be a highway in full profile will be a fast road. It's a wrong approach, and that's why this law in that part isn't good. The government should at least withdraw it and go with it to another reading. We are not against construction and support the construction of roads, infrastructure to encourage construction. But with this bill of law, I think we've missed the target and will need to intervene very soon after this legislation, because I don't know how a single one will get a building permit based on this law, and it must only be based on spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28120	Second replica, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bacic's in this long and wide law is unclear why he's making a classification in the course of the investment, what's the point of that? Because if you've opened a tender, if you've opened a loan tender, then let the person who wrote it be financed to the end, then the investment ends, and then when it's over, someone sorts out whatever they want. However, I think that here is the basic problem, only unfortunately this government, and it has become a practice always with such short proposals of the law under the grain force some things. You know that the amendment of the Law on Roads where part of the county roads is moving on to units of local self-government and where that large part of the funds collected during the registration of motor vehicles should become the income of units of local self-government even last year in the third month, and there is a rabbit in the bush. Except there's no one here to say it. And that's the only truth why this law is passed. Local elections are close, the County Road Administrations have started certain investments. These roads fell into the jurisdiction of larger cities, so local self-government units. Last year, the County Road Administrations were supposed to pay several million kunas on that basis. There's a mayor here with both one and another political option, so you'll see that's it and that's it. Because you don't have any projects, and that's what the Deputy Minister can say here, which is funded from the state level where some sort of classification decision is based on the changed category of that road. But unfortunately, as always, we're running from facts, we're starting some kind of local patriotic debate, accusing each other of why we didn't make it. But ask the mayors in Croatia and you will see that this year practically and actually last year, the County Road Administrations did not get any lip. And all those county roads that became city roads couldn't be built just for this reason because they started, I apologize for just one more sentence, they started with the County Road Administration, and they need to finish the cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28122	Okay. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28123	Article 209 or 213 I think it is, but I'm waiting for an announcement in the National Journal of this actual original Rules of Procedure. Here is counterpart Shuker, and it is a practical and misleading insult of representatives of the County Road Administration of Osijek-Baranja County City of Đakovo has signed a contract and paid 2 million and 900000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28124	The article, just a little bit. You reported a violation of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, which says, "No one can speak at the session before asking or receiving a word from the chairman." You also reported a violation of article 213 which says: "A representative in the debate can normally speak for a maximum of 10 minutes etc." Comrade Vinkovic, you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have either shown that you do not know how to read and understand or you deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure, which is why I am now giving you a warning and I am telling you that you are misusing the rod of correction, that is, damage to the Rules of Procedure. You can now go to the Constitution Committee. To claim. [[Intruder Vinkovic: I will not thank you.]] So you accept what I just told you, this interpretation that you abuse the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker's replica matches Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Shuker and you and I know well that the basis of this Law cannot continue to build a road in that profile as the Government, i.e. the Resolute Ministry, i.e. the public enterprise of the Croatian highways, i.e. the State Roads. In fact, by passing this law, this roadway will continue to have its building permit as issued by the competent county office, or city office. In order for this highway to become a national roadway, a new construction yacht will need to be set up, a new building permit that will have to be based on new and amended spatial plans, which outlines the road in the highway profile. That's one reason. The second thing is, why does the government go this way that because here it is primarily about reducing highway rates in the state road is that you as a great financier well know that Croatian roads have no credit potential so that they can finance this part of that road that will now be a state road but this credit potential because the fund outside the budget will continue Croatian highways. Therefore, the purely pragmatic reason Croatian roads are creditworthy to continue construction, the state roads are not, and then this law could jump into the problem of financing the construction of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28126	Next replica, respected representative Branko Hrg. He's gone. Next replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28127	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you are obviously to say in the profession of this legislative proposal, so you have considered some things very well. Namely, the retegorisation of the roads needed to then make a decision on investment in construction, investment, etc. will lead to those spatial plans that existed and building permits and everything else being questioned. Now, I wonder, you think it'll take a while for it to change, and then it'll just come to construction. However, given the way and the forms to say rule and the way and the forms of decision-making in a dictatorship do proletariat because it is far away, it was a long time ago, but a liberalism, so I think these decisions will be made over the knee no matter what we think the order must be carried out, etc. When you ask about which roads it will be and it is clear that since there is no medium-term plan, it has not been made, in 2013-2016, the Annual Plan for 2013, therefore the sole decision depends on the opinion and the decision of the Minister. Nothing else. So I take matters into my own hands. So, the minister takes things and decides which roads will be overtegorized and which will eventually go into construction, and since they complain that there is no money is hardly going to be. The Peljeski bridge you were also talking about where it was actually obviously the money that was perhaps intended for the Pelješki bridge, and it was envisaged for 280 million kunas,... 400 and that's from the loan, so it's likely that it's been redistributed just for those purposes how in fact the persistently stubborn refusal at the beginning of the coalition's term on the non-building of the Peljega Bridge was actually then, and which was at that time current, just that there's a Peljeski bridge not being built. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now all of a sudden we see that there are attempts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28128	Comrade Grubisic, time's up 17 seconds ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28129	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I can give you a heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28130	Replication response, colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, so that this law enters into force, which I know will come into effect, and that the minister retegorises the road will not have any effectiveness on the ground. For what? Because if construction continues, and no construction permit is changed, the building inspector should be there to stop such works because they are carried out past the building permit on the one hand. On the other hand, when changing the project, when changing the coster then it is necessary to go to the public procurement procedure to determine the new contractor. Therefore, this new contractor should call a tender according to the Public Procurement Act and choose a new performer who will now go to the construction of a new road, it is now a brand-new road if it is retegorized and a fast road is built instead of the highway. And you and I have experience of how many in the Republic of Croatia times the public tender has been annulled, a complaint filed, how long it takes the State Commission to solve it. Is it clear to you now what, and in what context, this law that is passed by emergency procedure is indeed unnecessary?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28132	Next replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28133	Dear fellow Bacic, you wondered in your discussion how suddenly some road would become state and it was public? You wondered how the lower-order road would become a lower-order road, how the minister could undo everything that's been done so far, everything that's brought in, everything that the local community has done? How can one man be stronger than everyone else? You did not seem to listen carefully to the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, who tells us the same thing every time here in the Parliament, and that's what we won, we take responsibility for our backs, so be it good or bad, and so is building roads. But they're probably also taking responsibility for what they've done in this respect in a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28134	A respected representative, Vanja Posavac, also applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28135	Thank you. My dear colleague, I have listened very carefully to your debate, but I am glad that you are concerned about whether this will be done or how but this law must go into urgent procedure just to solve the problems that exist. I understand your concern for the Pelješki Bridge, but just as some colleagues have already said, so I won't repeat myself to take care of the even development of the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, Bilogor-Podravska Ipsilon proved his justification and not to talk about the roads in Slavonia, and when you talk about local self-government, I do not believe that one mayor, mayor and mayor will object to getting a fast road and for the fast road SDP has been talking for years, that some highways have no excuse but a fast road.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28136	This replica corresponds to a esteemed colleague, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, this law does not make any sense by going into emergency procedures. Because I said the reasons why he's like himself won't be able to produce anything unless a series of other documents change. I agree with you although it should leave it at the will of certain commissioners and mayors that they will have nothing against the fast road instead of highways, but it requires a procedure, it requires public debate, it requires changes and additions of spatial plans, whether county plans of local self-government units, and it takes time, it is, that I told you that urgency in the adoption of this law does not mean anything, because only when all those acts that you said that local commissioners will have nothing and I don't know if it will have anything to do with, I don't know, I can't guess it now. But all of them, and they don't mind, it's gonna take a lot of time and then a procedure for new procurement, etc., introducing a new contractor into the business, it's gonna take a long time. That's what I told you, and as far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned, this is exactly what goes for Croatia to develop evenly. Without the Peljega Bridge, the far south of Croatia will not be uniformly developed compared to the rest of Croatia, it will be abandoned, forgotten, I only know what problems in the lives of the citizens of the far south of Dubrovnik-Neretva County will represent the fact that from 1. We are becoming a member of the EU in July. What will be a gift to all Croatian citizens who live north of Neum will often be a nightmare for those who live south of Neum. And that is why the bridge is necessary to allow Croatia to develop more evenly. And I'm also in favour of the Podravi Ipsilon and it's very much about whether it's going to be in full profile or whether it's going to be a state road, I'm still pushing for it to be in the full profile of the highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28138	He wants to replicate a respected colleague, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28139	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, you said at one point that this law practically makes one man decide for himself. You opened me up with those two questions. One thing is that lately, since this government has been in power since it's been working, we've had cases of power from the Parliament taking over government, and one man, so it's obvious that it's exclusive, memorized exclusively by them, there's no trust in everyone else, no representatives, no citizens. Everyone else obviously doesn't have the right to even think, let alone suggest something smart because it's as soon as it's not from that environment, but it's questionable whether it's smart at all. A similar situation happened to me about a year ago when the debate over the division of the Croatian Railways was that the same thing with the Parliament passed on the authority to the Government did not see why but this is similar to what is predicted in the future with the Investment Law, although I see no reason for it again. But you've opened another new view of this topic. It is that what the profession says is not respected at all, that really classifying roads, by changing roads, opens up a lot of new problems and technical nature and from a legal nature at all, but it's all being pushed aside, it's being created, I have the impression that it's deliberately creating anarchy, it's not working, it's a mess in that part, and then we can do it in this whole anarchy as it suits us, which is not negligible and it's not that detail that Mr. Shucker said is coming local elections, so it can be classified in that category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28140	We will now hear the answer to the replica of the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're right, colleague Novak. And you know what an absurd, which the government didn't even need this law, the government had the basis of a strategy for the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia's tools to find this without this coming to the Parliament and to decide this. It was only meant to bring first a medium-term public road construction and maintenance programme to the Republic of Croatia, and in this medium-term programme that was due to be adopted already for 2013, to establish that new roads in Croatia will now be and will also change the programme that was adopted in 2009. Years and then through the annual programme to implement exactly that road that the Government has right to do, because it has been decided by the Parliament that there is no need for a road to be more highways than there will now be a fast road or a state road, I don't know which category of public roads now the Government will re-ategorise each direction into the Republic. So, the government has it, with this law nothing will achieve, believe anything. And when it is determined that it is no longer a highway, that it is now a state highway, the business is taken over by state roads, Croatian roads that are both capable and administratively and capacitated in every sense to do the job to the end. I don't really see what this law is, what this law will pass and what it will change when I say, I have said it and in my presentation all that you will have to do to make a particular road retegrated will have to pass the procedure that is provided for by other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28142	The last line will be presented by the distinguished representative Željko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I can't believe you just said that these 400 million kunas that came in to help the counties of the competent ministry improve the state of the county roads that it would be some kind of pre-election trick where someone would get cheap political points. Well, you know, I think one of the 13 mayors is from HDZ right now, and we've been developing infrastructure as far as highways are concerned that we've completely neglected the county roads. And not 400 million kuna, but 4 billion kuna that could be given to help the county, and then they would be distributed in their own areas would not be enough. And you know it very well. And as for some cheap political points, remember how many construction sites were opened once, twice, three times, and the mentioned Pelješki bridge so many times, with me in Zagorje the fast road towards Marija Bistrica has been officially opened that the project documentation was not finished at all and that neither the Ministry nor the Croatian roads were provided with the funds. So this may not be the happiest thing to mention, it is not the money that should have been taken to the Peljev Bridge and given to the county road administrations to help build the infrastructure because it is the help of the local community. And since this is the ratio where we all agree between funding local and state administration is not a good help exactly are the only way for local self-government to survive as far as road construction and infrastructure improvements are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28144	And this replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Kolar, you have not listened well. So I'm not against the government passing 400 million kuna to ZUC, save God. It is good that ZUC all over Croatia could invest in the county roads in part and local roads. But I am opposed to the government saying at the same time that there is no money, that Croatian roads have no money for the Pelješki bridge and give up building the Pelješko Bridge, while at the same time these same Croatian roads are in debt for 400 million kuna to pass those funds to ZUC. There's something wrong with that. So Croatian roads are if they took credit to invest on other people's property on ZUC's property then they are even more correct and can legally invest on their own property such as the Pelješki bridge. And the government could deliver 400 million kunas to the counties, and then our mayors can each in their share of 400 million kunas, for example, my county has received 20 million kunas, these mayors and directors of the county road administrations when the government of those 400 million kunas must be able to deploy with them, they don't need a tutor in the form of state roads that will then follow, to monitor whether these county road administrations are using precisely for projects that they themselves are nominated by state roads. It is therefore okay that the funds went to the county administrations, they were to be forwarded directly to the county administrations and not to one public enterprise which, as no money for the construction of the Pelješko Bridge and additionally owed 400 million kuna for them to pass it on to ZUC. That's what I said. So it's a good thing the money went to the county, they were supposed to go directly to the county and not through one public firm that doesn't have the money to build the Pelješke Bridge, and there's money to be owed in the amount of $400 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28146	We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Roads does not speak too much in this amended Article 97a. It would also be better if Article 97.b, which would specify exactly which 12 roads in the Republic of Croatia as stopped projects are now renamed higher or lower. So we would know what this change of law is about, and I think it could have been defined the same way. In addition to the fact that Mr. Boris listed certain shares, we haven't heard from the deputy minister about what this is all about. From the context we could conclude that this is one of these roads is also the Podravo-Bilogian Ipsilon which is spoken of and whether it has a purpose and justification. Namely three counties of Virovitica-Podravska, Bjelovarska-Bilogorska and Koprivnica-križevska in political thinking and social needs and transport and economic importance with the participation of the Chamber of Commerce made the decision and conclusion that they passed on to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to start planning and designing but also to include in the Road Infrastructure Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia with the Podravsko-Biogorje ipsion. And when the idea solution was made, and the decision was made on such a performance and the launch of the project was certainly provided and the funds. Today, when we see that the economy of the Republic of Croatia and because the projects have been stopped and the road infrastructure has collapsed, we see that this law also wants to remove major economic disturbances that are already huge and too heavy, we can only say that it is too late to bring this article to help the Croatian economy because in the budget of extra-profit users of Croatian roads and Croatian highways there is no position to finance what we want to talk about. I would also like to stress that the cries about not being apart from the shovel and the concrete that was placed under the tent have taken no step on the Podrav-Bylogorical Ipsilon absolutely stand. And I'll repeat what I said in replicas. The justification for the construction is 12,000 vehicles measured by the Institute of Transport, the construction of the Republic of Croatia in Virovitica on the master's sub-level, on the old master's office. On average, the flow on that fast road that would be on Teresa's field, and in later talks, the Hungarians also designed Kapushvar to connect on that highway to get to Budapest sooner. So a significant direction for tourists who want to go to the Adriatic but perhaps also to the Istrian coast is equally important to move in the economy. The deficit in the budget or the loss of 1.8 billion on this project is just talking about... ipsilone stems from interest on non-payment, job stopping, penals arising from the contract or termination of the contract. I don't know how you can talk today about the existence of money to continue construction when a security company is involved that provides a construction site in that space. By my personal tour, I came to the conclusion that none of the statements by either the ministers or fellow MPs were correct, built 11.6 km of the route in the area towards Bjelovar, 11 objects concerning the overpass or bridges, was built the most significant overpass facility on the master's road towards Vrbovac, which will lead towards Koprivnica. I believe everything I'm saying today is clear on the ground can be checked, there are pictures that we delivered to the Ministry to reassure them. They probably woke up then, and they probably realized that something was actually done, that it was done well enough, and that it could have happened before these elections. And I'd like to say hello, if it was continued these years, I'd be happy and I'd clap a real minister who'd open a stock from Vrbovac to Bjelovar before this election. That would be a real pre-election card. I can't say that I'm satisfied, although it can be that it will ensure that the construction continues, but I don't see where the funding comes from. And why we're re-converting something that doesn't need to because the highway can end in a way that can be given in a concession. I even suggested the possibility of why the Croatian Defence Fund, which has shares in its portfolio of Croatian Telecom, would not sell Telecom shares worth billions and 800 million kunas and was a concessionary on that section of the highway and collect 25 years of road toll from that highway. Why not do so, why offer someone else, and there are as many interested as I have heard of those who have the money and the ability to charge cheap European funds in building all directions in the Republic of Croatia in a concession. Why are we preparing the highway money when we have something to build in a concession? Let's build into concessions, and let what we have built be national, be Croatian. I think that this way we should keep thinking and I'm only going to say one thing yet, that this is not the only hope that this project will be experienced and survived and that it will survive. It must survive because it cannot be deviated from, just as it cannot be deviated from what is drawn in the road infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia, which is a sub-level fast road Ormoš-Ilock. For it are made certain shares, bypasses around Varazdin, bypasses are made... Osijek, a construction permit has been created for a bypass around Virovitica. We hope that these segments will be filled through a certain period of time if we see in the medium term the funds provided and filled in so that we can have a quick sub-level road. We'll remember the days when the Homeland War was at its most difficult times, that the only flow through the sub-level old highway was towards our east when the highway was closed. And so first of all, the importance of further works on these roads has an exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia since we are 152 km away as the town of Virovitica from Zagreb, that we have achieved... the areas to which investors should come. I would like to say and repeat that a really sub-level-biological ipsion should be placed in the category of strategic investments and means investors if there is no money in the state budget to start tomorrow with all capacities to work on it in order to be in the year and completed, so that this part of Podravina, Bilogor and Slavonia can be combined with Zagreb for an hour, so that Bjelovar will be half an hour, Koprivnica also for half an hour and to help the economy and investors who want to come to those areas where they have secured industrial zones equipped with its infrastructure. I believe this article of the law won't achieve anything, we're just throwing dust into our eyes again and we're opposed to those international standards that my colleague Shucker said that it can't be carried over like that, from one to the other, as we imagined. The international accounting standards will probably be questioned, so we'll see what's going on. I want to say that the necessity and need to continue to build whether highways or fast roads, I know that fast roads would be adaptable to citizens because they do not pay compensation, but at these times when there is no money in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, when there is no money in HAC or Croatian roads, I do not know where we want to build it. Only give in concessions to those who have money and opportunities to build, and I said one of the possibilities or another. There is what is called a concession on construction and enjoyment 25 or 23 or 28 depends on how many years it takes to realize. The number of vehicles on the team, at the Podravska masteral, certainly justifies that it could be financed in the concession of this road. I believe that, too, all other projects that the Republics of Croatia need.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28148	Thank you. We have a full sequence of replicas reported. The first one will be presented by the respected representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28149	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I'm extremely glad we're both obviously up for the same thing. I warned in my debate about a controversial 2009 contract, not these facilities you're talking about. I just want to remind you of one thing and I'd like you to explain it to me. You keep saying that fast roads or highways are built. But why for 7, 8 years when you leave Virovitica and do not go to Grubišno Polje you come to the highway or the fast road in Vrbovac. The problem is dynamics, the seriousness of access to business. I don't believe we're going to slow down that contract signed in 2009 and we're going to finally see the road, not the scattered objects in the fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28150	The line corresponds to the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you'll have to take some books and learn how to do it first and how to build it. From the idea I said that there was an idea from the need for economic and social, there was an idea. The idea has been turned into an idea project. The idea project had to go into the production of certain permits and local and construction and get what is called the Environmental Impact Study, which is the longest from Bjelovar to Virovitica for three years. And when all this was collected, the documentation went into the insurance and start of the work. To begin the works it is necessary to create strategic objects on that stock and remove the humus layer and specify that train track as it is called. But that wasn't your conclusion. This one's been waiting to be done for a year until Belovar. Why are the works stopped? There's no money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28152	Next replica, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke of the importance of Podravsko-Biogorje ipslon for our three counties Koprivnica-križevcička, Bjelovarska and Virovitičko and there is no dispute that this is an immeasurable importance of traffic connection that would contribute here to the achievements you have made in Virovitsk-Podravska, but certainly one good traffic connection would further improve. But I'm glad you also said and talked about the construction part of these facilities. You spoke very clearly of objects as much on the belovar's arm, how much on the coprivnica and this information is denied by all those who speak only of one point, about one or two lambs. I think he's saying that enough for himself. But there is what we warned about when Minister of Transport Mr. Hajdas Doncic sent a letter to the mayor in Koprivnica-križevska where he said the works are being interrupted. It's about that confusion in accessing this problem. We were, of course, talking, so also in that part of the project, from the acquisition of what was spoken by counterpart Bačić and, of course, the inspection supervision that could further complicate. And with this moment, the key to which you spoke financially is where there is no funds. So I keep that should continue on the part where it was, where certain significant steps were made and where significant steps were made on these foundations. And of course we would have had even more significant shifts by now. This is how it goes with this law that I don't see it making a significant contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28154	Representative Josip Djakic corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28155	Well, here's a colleague of Milinkovic, it's clear that the interruption of works as well as the notification sent to the performers who chose to put on ice. They were not paid, the works were suspended, they fell into difficulty and crisis. Of course they've filed charges from here on out 1.8 million kunas of dubiosis. Billions of kuna dubiosis on the project, ensuring a year-round construction site by the security company because I found security guards out there to keep out of concrete nets, pillars, which I know machines, etc. All this says about it, I would say it is the only project, but on all the projects in Croatia. 12 road infrastructure projects have been stopped, but not only in road infrastructure. Projects have also been stopped in irrigation. The contractors were also rejected, placed in scurtz. And now what's going on? This hides the possibility that the minister himself chooses new ones without competitions and introduces them into the business of continuing to work. I hope it's not gonna be Koning's firm.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28156	It's about to be replicated by a colleague named Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28157	Thank you very much. Col. Djakic, if you look at the list of companies that are in the pre-profit settlement process, then you would see how many construction giants from Croatia are there. All those who built the roads yesterday are now, unfortunately, in the situation they are in. We can have Bilogorski ipilon, subravski pregled on the highway Zagreb – Sisak, the road where the tender is called, where the funds are secured. However, the works from 5 speeds were transferred there somewhere between reverse and first speed a little forward, a little back or a connected road towards the Homeland Bridge financed by Croatian roads. Also a little reverse, a little backwards. However, the greatest laugh causes me to see here categorization and road sorting. You know, there's a village by the airport, a city district of whatever name you want called Pleso, and there with a mountain bypass is anticipating a merger of that village or city district with that bypass, where tomorrow, potential travelers or intentions could reach Velika Gorica. However, those 100 meters seem to you that in certain moments you do not know if you need a diving suit or fishing boots to get on that highway. Now the question is, who's in the best interest of making a bypass not to build a 100-metre-long road? And also when all units of local self-government will come in the same position that their roads that were destroyed during the construction of Croatian roads or Croatian highways give them these same Croatian highways and Croatian highways and destroyed roads because these local roads are not intended for trucks of 40 or 50 tonnes. Unfortunately, this falls on the burden not only of tax but also of the standard of the citizens of certain cities, but with these amendments of the law I repeat, some things are being resuscitated under the grains that are simply not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28158	Representative Josip Djakic corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28159	Well, here's my colleague Shuker, you've accurately identified that pre-fashion and bankruptcy procedures are mostly in the economic operators involved in construction and that have worked on road infrastructure not only in these 12 projects but also in others that have been stopped. They also account for 10,000 more unemployed in the Employment Service, all other economic burdens that have reached Croatia's homeland because there is no transport, nor for those who have transport companies, there is not all of them or the sale of materials. All this bonding with each other, a whole series of economics has been stopped. And what I want to point out is that a year lost is certainly too much chaos in economic progress made because it can no longer spin with those companies that are, it can no longer be achieved with those who are destroyed, it cannot be with those who are bankrupt to make a contract. And so on. I don't know if the lesson from the past when they said the tunnel was St. A deadline designed for the late President Tudjman and his family to plant shampoos and then later halted the highway construction project for two years and then we came back to our senses to go on building. Did it happen again this time to stop everything for a year? It's just a question of all the questions why it didn't continue to work fully so that capacity could be employed to save jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28160	A respected colleague, Zoran Vinkovic, also applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28161	Dear fellow Djakic, the question of monetizing the fiscalisation of highways, i.e. giving in concessions, could explain it in a vivid manner as when a monkey sits on a branch and takes a saw and cuts off that branch he sits on. The Croatian state and Croatian governments have often been those monkeys on the border who cut that branch on which they sit and practically brought Croatia into great dependence. I agree completely, we can give a concession something that is not built, take and charge the concession and give investors who want to come to Croatia do instead of Podravska highway highway because this highway through Podravina is necessary. It's not even a fast road, it's a road of fear and horror. And Bilogorski-Bjelovarski, podravni ipilon let's call it whatever we want, let's remember those early '90s what that traffic route meant for Croatia. Today we hear that there is also a question of justification, a study of justification for the Peljega Bridge. So is it not clear to anyone in this Croatia in this assembly that this Peljeka Bridge is necessary? The question is how are we going to build it, how much will it cost, what kind of project it's going to look like, but certain contracts have been signed. Well, that's similar to asking ourselves now in this Croatian Assembly let's study the justification for introducing bilingualism in Vukovar. There's no place for Cyrillic! Vukovar is a Croatian town and it's definitely not a study. That's it!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28162	It's definitely time's up, too. The replica corresponds to Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28163	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I agree with you, colleague Vinkovic, that at the time when the highway was closed and occupied, when western Slavonia was cut down, only the Podravska highway was left as the only road to Vukovar, as the only road to Vinkovac, as the only way to Osijek. The only way that is, or across Hungary to go. This road has really endured all the burden of the Homeland War, and now it is necessary and necessary to build this fast road as in the strategy and planned Ormosh-Ilock. The segments like I said were made, but still care about it. I hope that it will continue to work regardless of our colors, on the differences in our planning, regardless of all these needs are really to build road infrastructure to make the economy better. And there's no alternative, if we're not going to invest, we're not going to achieve employment, we're not going to make any progress in the economy, we're not going to achieve an increase in GDP. What's been going on for a year is just because someone started, and someone had to finish, so if you had finished, they'd have come and clapped and congratulated on the success that would have happened. That's absolutely not controversial. It's a dispute why we've lost both time and money for a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28164	Now it will be replicated by a respected colleague, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28165	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned in your discussion two models of concession, i.e. two versions of concessioning, and I must say that on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club that we are explicitly opposed to giving in the concession what has already been built. This second model that you mentioned giving in concessions, building a road I absolutely support it, getting in who has capital, although we don't mind but giving in the concession what we already invested, built, it absolutely believes that the thing is not only Croatian Labourists but most of the citizens of this country that we are against it. You also mentioned strategically that strategic investments should include sub-level ipilon. Although I don't mind but I also think that the traffic connection between Sisak-Moslavina County should also find places in this. The fact is, the word is, let's say Sisak was in the former state one of the leading industrial centers. Today it's a town of advice, a city where almost nothing works, a city that has been forgotten, and unfortunately, by your government, forgotten and forgotten by this government, and it's really terrible that it's happening there. In order to create conditions for anyone to make a decision at all, to consider a decision to invest in Sisak should also make that transport infrastructure to connect to allow the city and that county to rise slightly from the dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28166	This replica will also be answered by the respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28167	Well, here's colleague Novak, I'm glad to hear that you're against the monetization of highways built to concession some other management on our values. I hope everyone understands that the necessity in this construction of these 12 projects that we don't see here is 12, but here we heard from fellow Boric I don't know from which source he got them, that 12 projects that have been stopped are going to be launched. We don't just want to hear from our deputy minister in what way, whether the concession in construction, whether new borrowing, under what conditions, with any interest. These are the questions we want and which could have been defined in this law. That we will give these projects in the concession, we will finance these from the loan and the main one will either be HAC as the current investor or Croatian road as the next investor. That would be well worked out in this law, and that would certainly give us one clarity. For every new venture you're going to do, just keep working, building, hiring domestic infrastructure, domestic building operations so that our domestic infrastructure can continue to build and build an economy, hire these unemployed because it really goes to waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28168	Last replica and respected representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djakic, you said in your debate that we must honor the plot and I say you may have thought of starting objects. I say you start the facilities you have to finish because if we don't finish them, everyone here has pointed out in their discussions, that the investor will suffer enormous damage to the lawsuits and everything else. When it comes to the highway. We've been in Europe a long time. We have European highways, European tunnels, but ladies and gentlemen, what hurts is what I think every one of us here. We must simply escape the ways and solutions to bring Croatia's Dubrovnik together with the rest of Croatia. I think it's the task of both these governments and all of us here and of somehow connecting Koprivnica, Križevnica, Virovitica, Slatina, Ilock, Vukovar, Pozegu, Sisak with existing highways, and whether it'll be a fast road, half highway, highway, so the waist will say it. I know Sisko's on the highway, but the waist will say. Thank you very much. And forgive the concession yes, but not by direct contract. I'm for the concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28170	And the last answer to the last line. Dear Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28171	Here's my colleague, Djurdjevic, I'm sorry, Shima. The damages are higher, they are difficult to correct, they are not paying, they are heavy interest, they are being sued, they are hiring security guards to keep construction sites and machinery on them, it is irreparable damage. It has happened in these years since the notices of termination were sent and therefore we appeal that no longer repeats how the authorities are changing and that they are coming, if something is started, it is necessary to insist on continuing and developing models and funds to end. It would be best to discuss today that this road, that this part is finished, that the Peljeski bridge is finished, but that the pillars may be in the sea, that they are already and that the final layer is to go, but unfortunately, it is not. If all the other shares that were to be built at the end were to be saved by tens of thousands of builders, they would remain in office, it would certainly save 20 construction companies that are in bankruptcy today or in the upcoming process and the question of how it will end. With this we can say that we have really done damage to the Croatian economy by suspending work, by not finding a model how to continue construction and finance construction and to welcome what is good and what is defined in the road infrastructure development strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28172	Now is the time to hear the individual debate of counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I don't know that I'm not repeating what we heard but in this debate, I don't know if you know about the fact that in Croatia almost 5.8 billion euros waits for, therefore, investors want to invest in Croatia, these 5.8 billion euros waiting for an investment. From all accounts, 278m euros have been launched in the past year. And only 6 out of 58 foreign investment projects in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, certain companies who worked and built highways during these or those governments fail, and one of the owners of these companies announces and says that public procurement is acting and that it should be changed. Based on these statements, this is not exactly about small mice, but about running cats, I can say that I am a long number of years mayor, and that I will also be after these elections, no matter who applied there, and this is coming, therefore, I do not at all consider this to be a pre-election speech, but I simply want to point out that it is difficult from Zagreb or from the Adriatic islands where and there are not roads especially of this state in extremely good condition, that Slavonia is very poor and that she is often in the fog. So here is the fact that there is also Deputy Minister Mr. Antesic here I would just like to point out on several state roads, so not county or local, but public roads, and if someone went to film them and saw the condition of that road I believe that all those in the government of the Republic, all state officials, all MPs would be ashamed of that name of the state road. One of them is Đakovo-Rusevo-Pleterna-Požega D38, then D46 Đakovo-Vinkovci-Tovarnik, so it is not the two local committees that join together but two large Slavonian cities. There is state road D515 Đakovo-Nasice and in one part even D7 Đakovo-Osjek regardless of the built road Slavonika. I must say that in the construction of that highway and from Đakovo-Osjek and Đakovo to that exit to a large highway sometimes called brotherhood and unity, although it is now the continuation of these several 300m towards the border crossing but nothing to say so loudly and with very little construction operations, I must say that many units of local self-government are precisely in the interest of building that highway and these highways and freed that investment from municipal contributions and helped the state in a certain way not with 2 million kuna, not with 400 million kuna, but even many more millions of kunas and even this municipal contribution throughout Slavonia and Baranja almost comes out a billion and a half kuna. And here are these announced 400 million kuna aids to ZUC, especially it is heartwarming to see how these 35 million kunas were deployed in this first one. So the Istrian County got as the richest region, I don't mind, 3.7 million kuna, Krapina 4 million kuna, there is SDP, Sisak-moslavina 2 million kuna, Varazdinska 3.3 million kuna, where HNS, Koprivnica don't know why, probably Mršić doesn't have time to lobby because in Podravka 0.8, Međimurska 3, so these are where SDP is. And here's where HDZ Zadar is zero kuna, there's no Calmeta, and there's no kuna for Zadar and Zadar County. Karlovacka 0.8 million kuna, Osijek-Baranja 800 thousand kuna, there is the HDSSB and will remain in power for a long time. We will also now win all of Slavonia after these local elections, Brodska has won 800 thousand etc. So there's this disproportionate and way, and already, if it's known in the morning, it's visible how 400 million kunas will be deployed. Those who are closer to the government will receive more funds and will be shared not on the basis of needs and some regional development but on the basis of above all, I would say party similarities. We are opposed to giving built highways in a concession is it really a sale of state wealth. At the end of these 20 and a few years of Croatian democracy, while monetizing everything through that criminal conversion and privatisation through monetization, fiscalization of post office, banks, everything that was valuable in Croatia, it is obviously now up to us for a large debt of almost 50 billion euros and for sale and total Croatian wealth from forests, water and highways that bring income. So, you who are in the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot decide without the Croatian Parliament and without the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and there is not a single government regulation that can in this way solve and give Croatian national wealth not in concession but simply into invaluable to those who will come here. Several times, I will not mention the Miholjačka bypass especially because only this year, the construction of the Drava Bridge on corridor 5c was primarily started on demand for the HDSSB, but because Miholjac is just one of the most important border crossings in the Republic of Croatia. There is already a sub-level highway mentioned which at this time is no fast road, is no highway, but is a road of fear, horror and traffic accidents, not to mention my school pass which, to this day, was built in '97. In the year, there are no lit intersections with state roads, there are neither horizontal nor vertical light signals and often these young people who play, so to speak, those popular games not with guns naked cars, there are Russian roulettes, so whoever passes without consequence is the winner, and often at these intersections are heavy car accidents with the death end. Finally, I will repeat, although from Slavonia, from Djakov, from the heart of Slavonia, that I truly believe that there is no one here in the Croatian Parliament who would have been discussing it if I had raised my hand to study justification for the construction of the Pelješki bridge after signing the agreement, the selection of performers etc. It is necessary, definitely necessary, as I would say, and extremely rude and degutant will be that bilingual inscription if this government allows it to enter Vukovar. I hope that this law is written in the spirit of the Constitution, as these two Rules of Procedures have been written, of which I have read less than I have read, and this one published on the Internet, Mr. Vice President, and I hope you agree that as vice president of the Parliament and I, as a representative, must stick to the Constitution and the law and what has been published in the National Journal. So this one doesn't apply to you, this one still does, and if you read what the President of the Constitutional Court Dr.sc signed for you. Jasna Omejec and what the President of the Croatian Parliament sent you will see who is right. I'm not asking for any thanks for the explanation or the warning. Thank you for these 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28174	We're moving on to replicas now. The first representative to report for the replica is the respected Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Vinkovic, you mentioned the debate, i.e. in his debate schedule 35 million kuna, but it is an interesting name, so the decision was made in July 2012 and says the decision on the allocation of funds for interventions under the special order of the minister. It's also interesting when you look at which county road management has received as much funding, you also mentioned it, so we get the information that Krapina–Zagorska, so SDP got 4 million kuna, Varazdinska got slightly less meaning HNS 3 and 300 and in Istrian ZUC 3 million and 700. Now you have another data, so of the total amount of any county road, any local road, so Krapina County has 682.90 km, and my Zadar County has 1208 km, means times 2. Then you have another data, so the average income of ZUC per 1 km is 50342 kuna, for Krapina-Zagorje County it is 58,680 means above average in the Republic of Croatia. My Zadar has 39,617 means fat below average in the Republic of Croatia. However, income from intervention funds for ZUC Zadar County is zero kuna, and it is known why so. And it wasn't enough, but the same minister made a decision to abolish the state road that connected both Sibenik-Knin and Zadar County, so Skradin, Benkovac, Zadar, became a county road, so it's not enough what we got zero kuna but we get in a new km now the road of a new category.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28176	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28177	Thank you, colleagues. The fact is that these are indeed factual evidence that it is visible from this distribution signed by the minister. I only said that I was afraid that this decision would take place one morning, and I am afraid that more funds will be known throughout the morning, so regardless of the state of construction, they will get exactly political likeers, and not that this amount will not serve as a flat-rate development for Croatia, but also in this road infrastructure, and that is visible. You have an example. a Požega-Slavon County which, and you know it very well, has been burdened for a long time by a policy that has brought her into this difficult state, Francis knows well from the Pleternica, there has been no one else in power but a little HDZ and SDP, so they have probably led that county into a huge state of duty and there is indeed a huge need and given the configuration of the terrain etc. Only 500 thousand kuna. Unlike, I have nothing against Istria, but Istria is the richest region in Croatia, it gets 3.7 million kuna from these divided 35. And now I understand why the SDP also supports Caine as mayor, and the IDS supports the SDP, and as Cain always votes for what the government says even though he speaks rather dissonantly to the text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28178	Next replica, the esteemed Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28179	Mr. Vice President, well, my colleague Winkovic here's a good one. I'm not going to replicate because I don't have that much time, but I don't agree with some things. They're not accurate data. So, uh... It's a road that's just been built new. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not built. She's just been built. As far as Požega-Slavon County is concerned, we've really got enough funds here. But what you said and my fellow Boxes got certain cities or rather a city where the SDP is in power. Why didn't he get HDZ where he's been at the Pleternica since he was 20 and a few years old. About that, that's a different story. So I didn't participate in what you said in the county. That we are in big trouble, but here are a lot of things we have and solved without the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You saw that the government was also in last session when we spoke here, so on the current morning of certain counties helping but Požeko-Slavonska won't help, from spite it won't help because HDZ is in power. And by any chance, I'm sure it would probably help. But I won't deal with it. I'd say a few words just because I don't have a lot of time how and how to work in Croatian roads, highways. Look, it's been a year. She's changed management, and they've been fighting for a year. There used to be 5 billion total revenues for investment in the Croatian highways. Today it's a billion and a half. In Croatian roads two and a half billion. So far, it has been spent in Croatian highways and 45 billion roads only on highways plus roads and what we're extracting 0.60 lips from the fuel if we bring an end, and we must quickly bring the Pelješki bridge and highway to the end of the road, because the state roads are in extremely bad shape and with these means today, when we finish all the funds on the state roads because there is also no development of the economy without state roads, and therefore I support that there is no change in the law just to say that it can't be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28180	The replica matches representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28181	My dear colleague, I mentioned the D-38 state road. I'm aware when it was built and this part of the Pleternica, Rusheva to... which was also a complete macadam and a hole in the hole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only after opening the county road to Music. There at a crossroads where all the journalists came and it was visible how the county cared about the county roads and how the state cared about the state roads. But not to get into it, I'm talking about this part from Levanska Varosha to Djakova. If you've been passing through there, and here I am once again calling the entire government, it's one real safari. You're not in Africa. You're in Slavonia on the state road. Take your chiropractics to set up your spine, kidneys, eyes, anything you need set up. But it's been going on, gentlemen dear, for 20 years. There are promises, there are agreements, there are conversations, there are a number of nice words, but to this day, with those nice words and promises, there's a hole in the hole. It is a road that can no longer be patched up, not to mention Djakovo – Vinkovci state road, not to mention, and hopefully these days I will be able to resolve to sign this contract through only Djakovo street of Petra Preradović and Ban Jelačić, which is practically the old Pavic, thanks to my deputy. It was practically Hitler working at the beginning of his career by those big concrete blocks, and now houses are suffering in the strict center of the city through which the state road passes. That it's a city. I'd put it in the budget, but it's state-owned. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much.]] And there's no maintenance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28182	The Honorable representative Dinko Buric will now be replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Many times in your presentation, but also in the presentation of the other representatives, my colleague Vinkovic pointed out the importance of so-called. Sub-level highways. So, the road that connects as counterpart Djakic said from Ormaz to Ilock. However, in the past government in all those eight years when we pointed out the importance of this road, and unfortunately here it continues in the term of this new Kukuriku government all the way to Djurdjevac and somehow makes sense. But from Đurđevac here to Ilok nothing has happened in these not years, but in these 13 years, 9 years already, 8 years of that government and one year of this mandate nothing has moved as if someone deliberately refused to make it possible and it is about the road that is important for all Slavonia and Baranja to enable this vein of housewives to allow for the development of the economy. And that's why this new government also shows that there are no significant differences with Slavonia and Baranja between the SDP and HDZ. That's why you're the same for Slavonia and Baranja both. You see us all as an unwanted child. And I will give an example of the tour around Lower Miholjc mentioned by his colleague Vinkovic. That's even an example of one, I'd say human nonsense made two and a half kilometers, and four kilometers ahead. These two-and-a-half-mile radius has a signpost for Virovitica. Then you actually come to Nasice and you have to go back to the center of the Lower Miholiæ to continue to Virovitica. I mean, at least get rid of the signposts so people don't get confused. [[Intruder Stazic: Time of fellow Buric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28184	Comrade Buric, time. The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28185	Dear colleague Buric, you're absolutely right. I'm afraid that even before these local elections, given this law, among other things, which says that it will affect the development of the economy, the increase in employment, and I'm afraid only if it continues at this rate, this reduction of unemployment that we will come very quickly to 500 thousand unemployed. Because in all the laws that have been adopted in these years, it has been said that it will significantly affect employment growth, GDP increase, industrial production increase, these and the inclusion of domestic construction operations etc., etc. And I am afraid, on the other hand, that before the local elections, we will really have what we had almost before each one, that here we will have new projects, new cornerstones, that there will be a lot of ministers in Slavonia who, as far as I know and how much I have witnessed and how much I remember, not only how much politics I have come to Slavonia exclusively around the election of those locals or those for the Croatian Parliament. They set up a stone foundation, so after the woman in Slavonia, you know it very well because never after that stone foundation did anything turn out to be an acidic cabbage, because apparently today in Slavonia, the richest region, and we eat cabbage, and someone else eats meat. And then on average, we all eat charm, and we don't even go skiing. It's the saddest fact that once the richest region is now and traffic-insulated and will be further isolated. This ministry shuts down even railway ties with Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28186	Its replica will now be presented by the respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vinkovic and I noticed this distribution of funds signed by the minister according to the county road administrations and I mentioned it earlier that last year was my county of Koprivnica-Krysjevacko-Krževnika was given 13.6 million kuna while, I'm not jealous of my neighbors to think that way, while for example. Međimurska got 30. And this year you said we got 0.8, right? And now I wonder what the criteria are, which is the way it's done even though we certainly have in the sense in which fellow Boxes spoke we have shares significantly more. The fact remains that we're cut off and there's a point. Now, under these circumstances, you'd have to believe and say that if we're going to stop building the highway, we're going to build a fast road, and we're going to do it quickly, and so on. Well, my God, they were alive, so they saw. And of course, there are not many other obstacles. And now we're talking about one moment of that atmosphere that you were talking about where there are billions of euros waiting for investment in our homeland. So who in such an atmosphere and in such a way who will, so capital has its own mechanisms that he looks at but there is if there is a quality of doing what we witness projects if they are made we have an example from Djurjevac to Klostr Podravski and a few other shares where complete reconstruction and a new layer were made from EIB 2. So, you have to make quality projects, you have to do it without thinking, without some criteria that are only a minister or some others known, and then you really will have capital and opportunities, investment is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28188	The replica matches Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28189	Normally, you will agree that a construction permit is required before the machine arrives. Not so much, even somewhere it sometimes takes that environmental impact study if you have a water-protected area, etc. There I don't mean now on this study of justification of the construction of the Peljega Bridge. However, the fact is old Latini would tell counterpart Milinkovic about the seas pace. You yourself said you received 30 million kuna in the HDZ mandate. At the same time, I did not notice certain criteria but exclusively political similarities. To us in Slavonia and even to those in Vukovar-Srijem County, Požega-Slavonska, Virovitičko-Podravska where the current HDZ mayor is so still, Slavonia gets at least. She also received from the HDZ government, as well as from this SDP's least won. And we are talking about the even development of Croatia, we are talking about regional development. What regional development? Where the richer ones get richer, the poorer ones. It's obviously a program of this government and it's a fact. And if that wasn't the case, then I'd be the Prime Minister, but then I was on, I wasn't, but he was, like, on a fresh mountain air, but at least I'd adopt one single amendment and show good faith to Slavonia. No, all amendments to Slavonia were rejected. Not only for Slavonia, for agriculture and for the economy and for water supply and for road construction and for railways, all rejected. And what we got, for example. to lift that fast train Osijek-Jakovo-Brod-Zagreb because it is not justified. The other day we hear that We invest in electric cars and go to Hungary, and the Beli Manastir-Hungarian railway is lifted. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28190	The last replica, colleague Vinkovic... The latest replica of this basic exhibition and the respected representative Nedzad Hodzic. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28191	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, however, you said that the introduction of a Cyrillic to Vukovar is something that should not be done. So I just want to remind myself that the bilingualism or rights of national minorities are both Serbian national minorities and not only bilingualism but also other rights of national minorities that arise from the Constitution and the Constitutional Law are the things that have been passed in this House by a two-thirds majority. So any opposition to the non-compliance of the laws that we have passed in this House is an attack on statehood, it's against your own state, it's against this home, it's against the Parliament, and it's against all of us, and I'm asking you not to do it because I think you're calling for lawlessness. Since the fall of the former Yugoslavia, the country has achieved all its political goals, so it is whole, independent in so-called. abnormal borders, NATO pact members and soon EU members. The only two things we have to build is the state of legal certainty for all its citizens and countries of economic well-being. I call on us in this House to make a contribution to this goal together, and we cannot publicly call for the lawlessness or non-compliance that has been passed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28192	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28193	Dear fellow Hodzic, I don't know if I should call security services to put handcuffs on me as a state enemy to get me out of the Croatian Parliament. So what we are looking for in the light of and constitutional law on national minorities, taking into account both the Constitution and those laws where we have put Croatian citizens from the BIH or the diaspora who have and dual citizenship into an unequal position in relation to citizens who do not have a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia but only come by buses to elections in the Republic of Croatia what HDSSB requires and we believe that it is an extremely bad time to introduce bilingualism except for national minority institutions, in other institutions, we are looking primarily for a new census that will define how many or members of the national minority or members of the majority people. At this point I don't know if it's clear to you, it would be similar to you if in a certain Arabic language the Taliban put this bilingual inscription on New York, New York or the end of that collapsed world mall. I didn't mean to offend you, you don't have to ask for breaks, etc., I'll end this debate. But you also understand us Croats, understand what Vukovar means for Croatia, for the creation of the Croatian state and what those numerous victims mean for both the Shepherd and all those Croatian people's sites, not only in Vukovar but in all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28194	I will remind you that in this assembly, you and my colleague Vinkovic have taken an oath that I swear by my honor, I repeat my honor that I will exercise my duties as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, knowingly and responsibly, and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law in my work and respect the legal order. My colleague Hodzic answered for the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28195	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, I am asking for a break of ten minutes because I do not think such discussions are appropriate for this House and I would like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28196	Here you go, pal Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28197	Dear Mr Vice President, on behalf of the HDSB Representatives Club, I also regret a ten-minute break. [[Intruder: I Club of Croatian Labourers Seeks a Break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28198	Is anyone else looking for a break? Okay, here's the deal. Since we have a break at 13:30, we'll proceed. I'm gonna set a break now. And we'll continue at 3pm with the session. I remind you, I don't know if President Leko said that. For today, we plan to do five agendas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28199	We'll continue our colleagues and colleagues after the item. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, counterpart Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28200	... What do you say? [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So we believe that a state has defended itself at the borders with weapons in its hand, today when all the political objectives of this country have been achieved we believe that we must defend it by defending its legality in all its institutions, especially in Parliament, or in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Every time we feel or think something wrong on that trail we'll try to point out. Are we right? We'll all evaluate it together, but I think this kind of discussion is saying all that we heard today and it's not the first time I think it's inadmissible and I think we owe it all to stand up to it together. The question of bilingualism, the issue of Cyrillic is the issue of this country, respecting the laws of this country. The question of the Italian language or any other language where our laws provide that members of national minorities have the right to use it in accordance with our laws and positive regulations, we must respect it. And all the messages that are already going towards Vukovar on several occasions and don't apply Cyrillic letters, I think they're against the law, and we're going to fight those attitudes. The reason for the session's interruption, so the comment that took place in the replica, I think it's absolutely inappropriate. I don't know what that message meant? Whether it was directed to me as a member of the Bosniak people and a member of the Islamic religion or directed to someone else, members of another national minority, I really don't know it, but I think it was absolutely inappropriate and that this House doesn't deserve to have such a speech in it. I will remind you that, on a few more occasions, we have interrupted the sessions, and I will remind you that in this House, on a raised plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, it was not hunters but Montenegrins, so absolutely I would say, I will use here and perhaps an ugly expression of a joke with my own Parliament. It's inadmissible to us and we're asking for a future response, and then we liked to have reactions both on the left and on the right because we think that kind of speech when it comes to the door of this assembly is inadmissible. What we can say in a joke at the bar among friends cannot be said in Parliament because we have chosen 151 people out of 4.5 million citizens of this country chosen according to the laws and we are the first to call the others behind us to follow the law of this country. I don't think the reasons for a respected colleague are a bad nature. I said I appreciate him for his specific wits, whether I love him or try to be funny, but I think they cross boundaries that aren't allowed. So I'm asking this to be the last time. So I ask that this be the last time that we don't have to interrupt the course of the session because I would say banal things, and on the other hand, things that are very offensive and can be interpreted in various ways. Once again, the reason why we interrupted the session is because I don't know if it was directed to me or to anyone else, but we feel that such a dictionary is not acceptable and that we can no longer tolerate it, or we will always do this gesture that we have done today if we bear witness to such discussions and this speech in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28201	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28202	Mr. President of the Parliament, MPs and MPs. Well, Mr. Hodzic, I don't belong to those you probably called, I don't even have the talent for some verbal figures or anything but I completely refuse you the right to put yourself as a criterion or a person who will determine the standard of what anyone will say in the Croatian Assembly. We will speak in the Croatian Parliament as we think, what we feel and we will represent the voice and interests of those people who chose us and who elected us to the Croatian Parliament, as you represent the interests of those few thousand or hundreds of people who, by special law, choose you in the Croatian Assembly from the ranks of national minorities. So I'll talk about the problem or the bilinguality issue, the introduction of bilingual inscriptions in the city of Vukovar. I can also say that as a representative both as a defender and as a participant in the defense of these unfortunate, unfortunate words of the day of the Vukovar defense and on behalf of the HDSSB Club. So, we believe that this topic, the theme of introducing bilingual inscriptions in the town of Vukovar, is not the subject but couples, for example, of bilingual inscriptions in Buja or somewhere in Istria or of bilingual inscriptions in Daruvar or in any other city in Croatia. These are simply not identical questions. This issue of introducing bilingual inscriptions in Vukovar deserves special, it is a particularly sensitive issue and deserves a private debate in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament would have to find space and time not to throw out our emotions or to throw out their personal or collective frustration, but to try to further clarify some of the concepts that we keep pushing under the carpet and keep hiding from them, but they keep coming out. Thus, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, from which the basis for the establishment of bilingual inscriptions in the city of Vukovar, arises as a consequence of the political trade of SDP, HDZ and SDSS. The HDSSB representative club, or our representative, was then, and we were against the adoption of that constitutional law because we also today believe that this constitutional law is the scope of certain rights that have been granted to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia above the average of all rights in the countries of the European Union. I don't mean the introduction of bilingual inscriptions. Furthermore, the changes to the statutes of the city of Vukovar as a result of the political trade of HDZ, SDSS and HSP, Dr Ante Starcevic, and we also participated in them, and we have nothing to do with it, and they were the basis which allowed today a decision to place these months of bilingual inscriptions in the city of Vukovar. Therefore, we are also legalists and should respect Croatian laws and the Croatian Constitution and the Croatian constitutional law and the statutes of cities, even if they disagree, that is. On the other hand, the fact that he was in that Vukovar in the fall of '91 should be respected. that tens of thousands of Croats who defended this Vukovar, who lived in it, were persecuted, and that there was a collective frustration of the Croats in the town of Vukovar. It is present, and in a peaceful reintegration those who participated and were the element of that frustration that they continued living in that city and that now these two groups have merged in one space. And the fact is that there was no bilingual inscriptions in that Vukovar during the former Yugoslavia, and there was never a need or initiative to introduce them, but it is now necessary. We must therefore be, there must be a good will, we must talk, so if it is necessary to exchange these frustrations, so it would be good if the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia had a certain initiative to talk, so perhaps if it is not about their heads, so if the Serbs remain to what extent they are with or without these inscriptions today might step back and talk about a certain moratorium to put these plates on. Neither Croats will be smaller Croats nor more Serbs, but perhaps it is now a chance for the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia to take that one step towards the solution. And to conclude, we think this is a topic that truly deserves a parliamentary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28203	Thank you. On behalf of the club of Croatian Labourists, Col. Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28204	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would at first read a part of UNESCO's definition of tolerance. Tolerance is respect, acceptance and respect for the richness of diversity in our world cultures, our form of expression and our way of being human. It is based on knowledge of openness, communication and freedom of opinion, conscience and conviction. Tolerance is harmony in diversity. It's not just a moral duty, it's also a political and legal requirement. Tolerance, a virtue that peace can make possible, contributes to the change of culture, war and the culture of peace. Tolerance is not a concession, benevolence or permissiveness, tolerance is above all an active attitude to encourage the recognition of universal human rights and fundamental freedoms of others. It cannot be used as an excuse to break fundamental values. Tolerance should be applied by individuals, groups and states. Tolerance is a responsibility bearing human rights, pluralism, democracy and rule of law. The Croatian Parliament is certainly not the place where anyone, and at least the MPs will call for non-compliance with the law. Yeah, we have to stick to the law no matter how hard it is for some, like a drunk float. Is Vukovar an exception, how to make it towards the Cyrillic in Vukovar, but not forgetting everything that happened in that troubled city and who was still on the other side of the werewolf perspective. Is this the wrong letter which is in a slightly different form and ours, the Croatian letter. Tolerance should also be called upon by those who advocate the introduction of two letters, but also by those who oppose it. I understand both, but I don't understand the creation of an atmosphere that can lead to conflict. Vukovar is a specific city, many families seek missing fathers, sons, brothers, sisters, grandfathers, grandchildren. The wounds are still fresh, and politicians often dig for them with inaction or bad behavior. If we had been able to close all the sides of the Homeland War, if we had renewed Vukovar, that we had treated the true defenders of Vukovar as patrioticly as we were to defend the introduction or non-introduction of two letters, many say in two languages, that Vukovar is a city that all authorities have promised today we would have talked much more calmly about Cyrillic. Obviously, there are two sides that must learn tolerance and intolerance. He must respect one another, he must hear one another, hear and respect other people's arguments always bearing in mind what Vukovar means to all Croatian citizens who regard Croatia as their homeland. Forced law enforcement is not good, but it's good to talk, interpret, and not argue. And to repeat, there is no room for intolerance in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28205	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Zvonko Milas. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what we've heard in these few exposures that everyone's pushing for understanding and conversation. No one's against it, no one's arguing about the legality of making legal decisions. However, in 20 years so many laws have been passed, so many have been changed to make us better. So is this law or Article 2. The 2002 constitutional law and it can be considered in context if it is not good we will change it, supplement it, change it or at least put it on hold again in order to make a better life for all people especially for people in the area of the city of Vukovar. In that sense, I will remind you that the Vukovar before the war was quite another picture of this one we have today. Today, we have a pale demographicly wrong environment that I have to say, so in a devastating march from the east when a ton fell I don't know lead, iron, hate, and everything that happened 20 and a few years ago. And I'm going to ask you for some attention so I don't talk too much about it and that someone doesn't think I'm politicizing, I'd read you a letter that I received after the current hour when I asked the prime minister a question about introducing a Cyrillic letter into the area of the city of Vukovar. Here, just a little patience, please. I'm a Vukovar child, I was born in Vukovar, I was raised, I was educated. I went from Vukovar to Vukovar with the desire of others, back to Vukovar with my wish. Today in Vukovar, I live and work and think. January 15th in Vukovar, we remember two events from our recent history. '92. So on the international recognition days of the Republic of Croatia and January '98. the completion of the peacekeeping mission and the UNTS. The first one I always remember with special joy and pride. From the exiled accommodation, it seemed to me at the time that all our sufferings, our evictions, the prisoners, the wounded, the dead got their decent place at the pedestal value. In my head, all the suffering gained its meaning, achieved its goal, and gave dignity to the sacrifices we suffered for the Homeland. We had our own Croatia. The second event allowed us exiles to return to their homes, and with it the start of the peaceful reintegration process. It was necessary to return to your own, restore and build and establish, edit and organise and certainly peacefully reintegrate. The question that comes to mind today is: If the Republic of Croatia has, through this process, established a state-law order in all of its space that should have been peacefully reintegrationd into that space or even better as I had to reintegrate in the city where I was born, grew up, had my own home, had to go out of it by the will of those who forced it down and occupied it. Wasn't it enough for me to go back? Didn't they have to reintegrate those who came uninvited, alienated my belongings and moved into my house? Did I come to a foreign country, another city where I was asked to adapt to those I found there? But if new victims were to be avoided, let that battle be won. A lot of talk is that peaceful reintegration is a two-way process in which citizens of Croatian and Serbian nationalities have invested. I have to admit, that's what I'm thinking. What has the Croatian side invested in the peaceful reintegration process? It's a '98 Vukovar. Unrecognizable, destroyed, re-launched organization, security, talk, show. So-called The extremity of powerlessness and injustice, kidnapping and indifference, and then restoration and construction. The Croatian state has forgiven many who have dirtyed their hands, agreed to a moratorium on serving military deadlines for citizens of Serbian nationality as well as learning a newer Croatian history. Within the educational system, the highest degree of freedom of education in the language and letter of the national minority, often in the principle of one child, one class. And what the citizens of Serbian nationality have invested in the peaceful reintegration process. I can't remember anything except that they destroyed the city where I grew up, that they killed my friends and neighbors, that they stole our property, and at the end of this ballad as a great contribution to the future life they allowed us to return to our own. There was no time for all these years to report whether they knew what crimes committed against Croats and not the Serb life in Vukovar, if not out of remorse or ordinary human regret, and at least as a contribution to peaceful reintegration. Is today not the time to show good will and think about whether we should discover on the face of the city that they have destroyed the sticky price printed on Cyrillic because this will be the way that we mark the 15 years of reintegration in Vukovar how much human life is worth and who will pay that price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28207	Thank you, too. Comrade Horvath, please choose your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28208	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to pray on behalf of the SDSS Club for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28209	All right, 10 minutes off. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. On behalf of SDSS, a colleague of Mile Horvat's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28211	I thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Assembly, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In any case, I am aware that what we are doing today is not popular to take a break on a break, nor did anyone realistically expect that from one topic of one other profile, so we will come up with a debate about the roads that we have come up with. Obviously, it was necessary, obviously, that some even in such a topic seek to politicise the fact that a Cyrillic was introduced under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities because the elections of the local ones are simply approaching, and that is clear to us. The debate on Cyrillic could be conducted and should be conducted in some academic circles, should be led by linguists, then we could find that more than 200 million people use this letter today on the planet, that perhaps tomorrow in the EU Cyrillic will be like a letter even on some of our documents, it is said to be even on coins, so on the euro because there are Member States whose letter is official. So, will that Cyrillic bother us when it does? I don't know. We can also talk about Cyrillic as one cultural heritage of the Croatian people in total. So it's not some particular wisdom to go to wikipedia and record and see that it's on the outside documents on the Humačka tablet, about the Dubrovnik prayer book written on Cyrillic. If anyone really wants to look at the historical dimensions of this letter in the Republic of Croatia now or in these places sometimes. That's it. I will not deal with such discussions, I will simply try on behalf of the SDSS Club to put the ball on the ground as some predecessors correctly tried. We are fully aware of the situation and the environment and all the facts that have led to everything, to this situation, so to this condition. We are also fully aware that there is a need for a certain respect for the pate of relations with some past events in the town of Vukovar, according to the frustrations of certain people etc. Well, we don't force this. So, with all due respect, we're trying to talk to local self-government and find a model that won't hurt anyone, while being legalists and that what we wrote ourselves through these regulations 10 years ago or something more to accomplish it. So it is our first task to carry out what we have voted for. If we have promised the EU constitutional law, and in 2002 we have brought it to the two-thirds majority, so qualified majority where almost all parties participated, then and then we have pledged to give minorities the right, a quota of 33.33% in the consumption of some of our specific rights, then let's do it. We don't ask it to be tomorrow and we don't force things, but we can't accept the fact that for 10 years we have the Law on the use of language and letters and that it is selectively implemented. The law on postponing in education is selectively implemented. Let's change that. We don't mind, so we don't think it's something that's cemented, so I totally agree with my HDZ colleague, let's open a debate, and let's get two-thirds of our hands together and let's change that thing. And let's not tell Europe we're not doing a certain amount of rights now, we're not giving 33% to minorities anymore, we're going to give them 15%. And let's be open to the end, and we didn't expect a census like this, so we gave very gallantly and very broad hands the rights at the level of one-third of the total population. If we were expecting this, we'd probably have some other censorship in the Constitutional Law in that matter. It's kind of our opinion. So we're not opposed to changing this either. Let's make a deal and collect most of it, let's change it, but while it's in effect let's as legalists respect it. Of course, I'm going back to that thing again, respecting the full state of the field and trying to be cooperative here. And another thing that is not good, colleague Vinkovic opened a very awkward thing. I respect his rhetorical exhibition, this time it's gone too far, so we're not Taliban, the Taliban are foreigners or terrorists. If you think we're Taliban or terrorists, that's what you should say. That's what you have to come to you in the middle where you live and say Serbs, you're the Taliban as much as the Taliban in the U.S. Senate. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28212	Thank you, too. We continue with the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Roads Act. An individual debate. Mladen Marelić, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28213	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, fellow MPs. I think the proposal that came to amend the law is justifiable and normal. It is justified for the normal continuation of construction and construction of roads. It is particularly important to break the model of the demands of individual units of local self-government when they went towards the ministries to give each local road or unclassified a larger category so that they entered the Croatian road investment at that time. With this law, it's gone. The one who owned it until the change in category had to be done on the road. It means bringing in a resolution that it can be fully used. A standstill in road construction has stalled since tenders have been called. There are some places to start, but there's no means to secure it. This is how we remember in 2009 when the invitation to tender for the construction of the Doli- Dubrovnik highway was opened in 2009 and the funds were not secured. It's really illegal and it's incomprehensible but that's how it was done. Whether the procedure is considered pre-election activity is someone else's assessment. We know what was going on on the Vrgorac-Ploče highway, which was the problem, which was doing these quarrys, how many cubics were raised outside and sold out to certain places, and let's remember the Dol performer who was at the time in business, who should have finished that road a long time ago. He came to the brink of bankruptcy. So his jobs, which were two other cooperatives involved, were also disabled by their families. So there was this tightness like a colleague here this morning saying it was a bridge, the works on the bridge were stopped. We remember well and they even better because they made that decision that the Bridge was in the sixth 2010. It's been closed for years. We also know that the contractor at the time filed a claim for compensation of 119 million, so that's a lot of unserious jobs that have been done, but to get something out now we're going to say how we're going to connect Croatia. Well, maybe I'm the one who drives the most on that stock. Which every month almost 1,300 miles I pass, twice a week on that stock, and that's the customs crossing, and that's it. ... In my county, unfortunately the mayor and colleagues have made such a decision and advocate not to introduce a ferry like a marna peach that would drive a circus for 10 minutes and a small investment that would be if it could be put into operation, that stock does not already seek, insist that it be a Ploce-Trpanj which your ferry drives for an hour more plus seven hours through Peljesac and the one in Konavla Dubrovnik must pass two hours drive to the destination. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's still a political game to stop certain works and that. A fast road that would cross Dubrovnik would certainly not be charged. We all drive when we see, unfortunately, very little driving on the Zadar- Split route. Here we rarely meet in these winter days practically at the heart of the traffic season. And a great advantage would be that, if such a route were to be done tomorrow, it could be built up to be a highway if necessary, and also that road would not be charged and could be quickly included, so it could be included, all residents of the county from neighbouring municipalities, and cities, places could easily be included. So this morning it was debated that the construction of roads, highways, that there was major damage to local, county Croatian, state roads. Yes, gentlemen, because the current local listeners, the current authorities at the time did not make records of the damage and asked them to immediately enter the recovery of those roads and we are now saying that we have come to great trouble because their behavior has not been done with fruit. We are also telling the story that the schedule of the 400 million kuna funds awarded by the Croatian roads is to the county. I can do the same for eight years in the county roads, it has never happened before that Croatia's roads of extraordinary those costs of the funds still being given a boost of four hundred million, and most importantly on the proposal of the county road administrations, the director of the county roads has come up with the use of these funds. The current government today thinks it has six counties that we are in power, and 14 is the former HDZ government, I think HDZ with its own have deployed these funds today. Practically for them when they were talking they needed building permits, it didn't need increased maintenance, it was for those roads in those areas that were supposed to be urgently rehabilitated. And I think that's all together we've done today a little bit of politicizing this law and such a law that will speed up the construction and those companies that were in road construction and are so damaged if we try to bring them back to life again. That's how much thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28214	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. The first one was Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Marelic said that the politics of the county government in Dubrovnik-Neretva County is not accepting the proposal to establish a ferry line instead of the Pelješko bridge, a link to the Komarna-Brijesta route, so for those who know less about it in the location where the bridge should be built. It's true that the county government was against it because it automatically means it's giving up building a bridge. It is not possible at the same time to build a bridge and in the location where it is built to establish a ferry line, build two ferry ports and access roads and there to make the coastal areas necessary for the normal operation of traffic and at the same time build the Pelješki bridge, it does not stand. We're either going to build a Peljek Bridge or we're going to build a ferry line on that route where the bridge is built. So it's not politics, it's the only rational thing to do, everything else is to keep the figs in your pocket. Therefore, it was proposed that this part of traffic which cannot pass through Neum, which is the transport of live animals and all those goods that are subject to phytosanitary inspection, should be directed to the existing ferry line, which is Trpanj-Ploče to complete the planning and reconstruction of the road through Peljesac and thus establish the regime defined in the process of negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the EU for Croatia's accession to full membership. When we agreed to establish a ferry line right where the bridge should be worked, then we sent a clear message that the bridge is not intended to build. And that's why the county government didn't accept it. And not to say that neither Briesta nor Komarina are in spatial plans designed as ferry ports as then clear that it should change the county and spatial plans of the municipalities on which these ports would be built and set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28216	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28217	My colleague Bačić is re-sumed and re-politicalized. We're going to that building the bridge will definitely go. I told you and last time the bridge SDP began it will safely and end in its term of office which will be. As far as ferry ports are concerned, the ferry is scheduled for that part when it would go because the entire ferry port of Briesta 100m means length, 40 widths with the ferry ramp built, Mr. Bačić, it's done, there's nothing more to invest. Also the other side of Komarna 20m coast which was 30 maximum for setting up a ferry ramp that the ferry would drive until the Pelješki bridge was completed. I mean, that's what's real and then you could drive 7 to 10 minutes, not 2 hours from the record to the bottom. And unfortunately, since 2000, I don't think you've been working on it, and the current government of the Croatian road has already begun to resuscitate and spread that section of the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28218	Thank you. Next line, Dinko Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28219	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Marelic's, you said that competitions were called without the funds in the budget being secured. And who was the 2012 budget for 2013? Why... nothing was done on the fast road of Solin-Kliss, and when we know well it should have been finished by the summer of this year? Also, something started to pick up the other day, probably local elections are coming up, so there's got to be something going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28220	We have a response to the replica. Here's your colleague, Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28221	... in such investments, and I'm telling you that the Dubrovnik Doli route was signed in 2009 for the construction of that road, and the funds were not secured or the tenders were called, I don't think the documentation is complete for the construction. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And we signed construction contracts. That means something tells us how you acted and how you thought you'd earn it. That was politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28222	Thank you. And the last replica, Josip Djakic. Here's my colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague I'd like to agree with you in some things about the funds that went to county administrations to resuscitate certain roads but the necessity and need is when Croatian highways or Croatian highways build their facilities to where they bring the material to resuscitate the roads that they have torn in their work. And... it's perfectly normal that it happened for these 400 million to help county administrations to make a recovery of those roads that are attached. However, I cannot agree with you that such a law will speed up the construction of these roads. On the contrary, we cannot believe that since we did not see any extra-account users that... funds in the Croatian roads or Croatian highways, and especially what in the article that was listed to change 97.a, should be left to 97.b, add all the roads that are concerned with the 12 projects that have been stopped, why are they stopped, what is the damage and how much money will be used to get these roads done? We'd believe in good faith after a year of collapse and a billion and some damage done. But this way we can't agree that this and this legal change will speed up the work on those roads. On the contrary, they will not, for they have been stopped. New contractors should be reintroduced, selected by the minister to make his decision for new performers, there will be no competition. I mean, what are we talking about? Well, it's pure centralization, it's absolutely non-transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28224	Thank you, we have a reply to the replica, colleague Marelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28225	I don't think it's necessary to write in law, and no law says what parts of it are, the projects that enter it. ...the law is a unique law that will apply in years, not a moment that projects are now going to work. I don't think that's the point of this law, nor is it the rule that it exists in law, not in any law. And do you believe in any government that's your business, your right, but I think we've got a very bad trust from this former government of yours, and I think this one in her term is going to do it right and positive for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28226	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The next one is Zlatko Komadina. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28227	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What an opportunity to say something about roads because I see it's a practice if the law holds one word, then you start with that word and go to the discussion as we went to Cyrillic as far as I could see because I was late for this part of the debate so I didn't know what the agenda was anymore. Turns out they're still roads. And a Cyrillic with a road only has to do with so many boards on the roads. But there'll probably be an opportunity to tell. I would say only one thing when I say this law, that it is actually one sentence, one paragraph, that in fact legal persons from the jurisdiction or owned by the Republic of Croatia mean public enterprises could continue to build shares that they will not naturally manage because they fall under the category of someone else as Croatian roads if it is fast or highways if it is highways. However, on this occasion, I would like to say that the purpose is that the agreed works are actually continued as far as I understand from the public about 4.2 billion of some agreed works on the stocks currently standing or being very slow to build or not at all, and in fact, in order to hire a building operation that is on the extremity and to raise objective GDP, which is always when certain construction investment activities occur. However, I would like to say that this is just part of the story, that we should talk here and, of course, expect the Resort Ministry to make a plan because the roads are built primarily because of the traffic connection and by the rule and order of the championship at its cost. In Croatia, long ago roads that were cost-effective have been built in Croatia for 10 years. The only viable, i.e. two cost-effective directions are corridor 10 towards the County or Belgrade, not to say BiH and Corridor 5B, with all due respect to all of you colleagues from other cities who need all roads so that they are not semi-limised and replicated, but by the cost-effectiveness of this, anything that continues to build is not worth it. Not a sub-level ipilon, not a road to Sisak, etc. Now probably if there is no highway but a fast road will be less expensive in investment, but it will also not be charged what is for citizens, but for investment bad. So in this context, I want to say that it would be very good if for the necessary directions that are still in place in Croatia, I mention one over and over again, this is the direction towards Dalmatia from Rijeka, meaning Žuta Lokva, there are other directions, that these directions are projected, prepared and offered or European funds as a project. Because we have an example primarily of Poland or some other countries that are a huge part of highway networks and fast roads made funds of the European Union or that in a concession model, means calling it some kind of public private partnership because when you don't have funds in the budget, when you don't have funds in public enterprises, and you don't have them, so you can't build out of your liquid inflow, you can't borrow because you can't even return existing loans, then it's just logical to start an investment, and to postpone its payment for the next 30 years or 40 that the concession actually can. In this case part covers income, for example I will say again Yellow Locke 60% would cover toll income, and 40% would be paid for 30 years as an Istrian ipilon is paid, as Zagreb-Macelj pays, and I think these are the only two directions that are under concession. So I'm saying that this is just one part of the story that's being solved by the existing state that is now so that the contracts are actually signed but they're not being executed, that this part is going to start but I think it can run a lot more than that, and it needs to run both traffic and economic, but most of all, to spin our operation and to raise GDP. Well, here's the chance when you're already talking about roads to say something that has a little bit more to do with roads than it has to do with a Cyrillic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28228	Thank you very much. We have six replicas reported. The first one was Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28229	Dear colleague Komadina, it's a good thing that you didn't stay Minister because by what you're looking for, we don't get anything in Slavonia and Baranja, and that's how you would rule it out so that Slavonia and Baranja don't need to invest anything because it's, I don't know. And you know what, this is when a man listens to what you're saying now, so it's not to be believed. So for us, it's just a cost-effective sub-level highway, a sub-level ipsylon. So are you aware that through the policies of the central state government, Slavonia and Baranja have become today the poorest, most neglected, most underdeveloped end of the Republic of Croatia. Not because people who don't want to work live there, not because people who don't know how to work, not because people who just lie there live there, eat cool, drink plums and spite, but because the central state government refers to Slavonia and Baranja in the way that he once referred to Zagreb. Well, that's a shame. And you still assure us it's not of interest. So how do you think Slavonia and Baranja are developing if you won't invest anything in Slavonia and Baranja? Well, it's only natural that it's a priority for us to invest in roads. In which way you will allow the economy to be stimulated, and for us it is only worth it. Well, Mr. Honorable Representative Komadin. Yes, for us it is a priority, every investment in Slavonia and Baranja. And as far as you're concerned, we don't need anything. I don't even know how this minister's gonna behave, but it's a good thing they've replaced you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28230	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Comrade Commander.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28231	I don't know why you're getting so angry, I didn't say anything about what you said. You're probably wrong that I didn't mention the directions to Slavonia, that's what you're saying. I just mentioned that roads are invaluable as they are. It's a notorious fact, notor fact. I also said that regardless, it is necessary to build for the reasons of traffic connection, etc. I was talking about a way of funding, not what you're talking about. And I said even to build a Podravi ipsilon, I just said the cost-effectiveness wasn't. And I don't see what you heard me say in the first place. You've turned everything around.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28232	Thank you. Next replica Branko Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Komadin, as you said, you were a little late for the debate, because what you did at your beginning of your presentation, I also said that this law does nothing to harm anyone without doing anything. This law I don't know what will happen to it because all those procedures that need to be done to make some road change and to build instead of a full highway profile in a fast road should be implemented with or without this law. Therefore, this law will not solve anything significantly. But I don't agree with the other part. That's yes, that's your approach to road construction. If they'd waited for a road by its traffic to justify its construction, they'd never have rewarded any roads. The road is like a basic infrastructure facility more than a roadway. It encourages development, it enables all the development of that space. Croatia would not be a winner in the Mediterranean all these years in tourism if there was no highway network. So we can't just look at the highway from the point of view of the daily traffic on it. Because if the road isn't built, there won't be that much traffic. Thus, over 30, 20, 30, 40 years, these projects indicate their justification and proper access to roads and in the first row and highways are built and when the number of vehicles passing by does not justify its construction at the beginning. I believe that the entire area south of Karlovec heading towards Split, neither Zadar nor Sibenik, that I do not say that there is no highway today would have a whole other face. Therefore, it is not a good approach to build only where this traffic justifies, but such roads as highways are drivers of economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28234	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Komadin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28235	I really don't know what you hear when I'm talking. Mr. Bacic, I didn't say that this law does not apply to anything, but rather vice versa. I said they'd run what's been arranged so far. Right? That's what I said. And I didn't say the roads didn't need the opposite. I said they needed roads, and that's why I was telling them, and that there's no money, and there's no cost-effectiveness, because there's no use for other concession models and European funds. You know well that state roads are never charged and it's the cost of construction, the cost of exploitation. So let's say that it's almost ideal for a national road to run, for example, for these Slavonians, which a colleague says is due to rural development, etc. and all that to run for European funds, and to be used concessionally there are highways where the charge is insufficient for the cost of the investment. That's what I'm talking about. I don't really know what you guys are, maybe I wasn't understanding enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28236	Thank you. Next replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28237	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I have to react to this part of my colleague Komadina about the cost of the road. What does the cost-effectiveness of roads mean? What about the development of the environment through which this road is going? What about leaving the population of those parts? So we have all of Bania, Banovina as you wish, which has been abandoned precisely for the reasons of traffic detachment. The plant's completely moving out. Whoever's got where he's going. It is precisely because there is no infrastructure not only road infrastructure, but there is no other infrastructure, and that is precisely what the colleague said about the state treating these parts. That's the way it was for us, whether it was in HDZ or SDP. Our score is the same. But you can't look at the cost of the roads exactly how much they're gonna pay back. There's no money, there's no money to pay for the rest of the population down there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28238	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Komadin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28239	You too, buddy. Well, of course the roads serve traffic connections, that's what I said. However, roads also serve economic activity and it is clear to all. But one thing stands. You're the one who's been doing the wrong thing to me right now. It's not the people who moved out of the Croatian countryside who moved out because of the roads, it's because they're out of work and they can't live. That's why they moved out. And the road, the infrastructure each helps the economy if the economy has and of course needs to look at the synergies of economic activity, infrastructure, transport, municipal, energy. And what are we going to talk about now is what is what. So stop replicating me that no one needs roads. That's what I said I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28240	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28241	Dear colleague Komadin, I'm not going to talk about Yellow Lock right now, and I don't know what it is, but there's no road, and I wish that stock was included in the program, and it was over, that you didn't have to resign for it. You may have all been misunderstood, but the fact is, there's no road that's invaluable. But that no investor will come where there is no transport infrastructure. He's not going to IKEA to Lenjavska Varosh. It won't be safe. He won't come to Kondric. That's where the village at Djakov's where the road is up, that's where you walk past the government on that street. That's one hundred times worse road than this one. He won't come there. The investor won't come if there's no municipal infrastructure especially road infrastructure. They won't come where there's no railroad. Shoja said there's a railroad, but there isn't, no one's going through that track anymore, not even the one that's been pulled out. So, my appeal is to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry because this law itself, no matter how it is written, will be there and stone foundations etc. but to open his eyes and look at the condition especially in Slavonia and Baranja. And I mentioned all these state roads, D38, D46, D515, D7 if they were city roads, they'd crucify me. Now I don't want anyone to be offended again, I won't mention it like Barabbas, so that the believers won't be offended, they'll crucify me as mayor if such roads were urban in such a state. Who are we going to crucify when the state roads are like that? Who? Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, who? It's the mirror of Slavonia and Baranja, the state road. [[Upadica Batinić: Weather, colleague Vinkovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28242	Thank you. Next replica Josip Djakic. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague of Komadin's with some things we can actually agree on how to finance the construction of road infrastructure, which is certainly the assumption of economic recovery and economic progress in all segments. Whether it's in the construction concession, whether it's building some kind of credit for European investment funds or domestic funds, it's just how politics decides which way and how cheaper it will go in finding funds and investors. There are domestic investment funds that can meet the needs of certain shares, there are external contractors who have banks that monitor them and who are willing to enter the construction concession. However, I have not heard a word of it from all the other colleagues I have listened to in order to get rid of it. And so far, we've worked the county or state roads, the highway routes, through the Betament program. So I can say that the Batterment program on the stock from Djurjevac to Klostr Podravski in the set is done. So from Kloštr Podravski to Lozar, from Virovitica to Špisić Bukovica. Also from Virovitica to Suhopolje. From Slatina to Čajjevaci Lug and that is the road that suffered the most in the Homeland War, with the entire programme of reconstruction of Croatia going and which was the only vein of the housewives. But today we haven't heard what this law is going to do and why for a year all these projects we're talking about today and that this law is talking about, why we didn't just keep doing them, finding new funding solutions in the race. Does the concession, with favourable loans from European banks or the EBRD or from other types of domestic or global funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28244	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Comrade Commander.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28245	So, look, Mr. Djakic, why among other things this law or what you said about why it didn't continue, so it didn't continue because your government was bringing in harmful contracts, she concluded contracts without the means of payment provided for almost all of these shares that were in public, about the Peljesk Bridge that I'm not talking about. So now I'm not talking about whether or not you need a road. Of course, as the road says, life means, so I'd pray, I don't need a lesson from Slavonia. I love Slavons too much to listen to nonsense here. So that's the point. The contracts were not right, and so can your colleague Bacic. And besides, you put in a bad business situation a couple of construction firms who started, worked, didn't even pay them, or even went bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28246	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Komadina, I noticed your quote where you say the purpose of this law is to continue the agreed work because if they don't continue, you know what's next. And I naively thought that the purpose of strengthening transport infrastructure was to enable even development of our beautiful and of course economic recovery. And look, in that part of it, you say now the ones that are up, these tickets don't pay off now. Well, I can't believe a former transport minister says that. Well, it pays off, Mr. Komadin, of course, to pay off. And in the traffic sense, so also in the statistical calculation of how many vehicles and everything is absolutely worth it. And where's that economic growth in these environments they've been waiting for for years? Koprivnica-crossing, so we have extraordinary potentials that of course need to be developed. For years, we have been patiently looking at how the tours around the river and all other means are being worked. And you allow us to be emotional too when it comes to these roads that are for us. Well, you were supposed to be emotional when it came to Yellow Lock. So for that reason, I don't think that this model that was supposed to be interrupted either, but simply on these foundations, I think we should continue to create the same conditions for everyone in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28248	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, colleague Komadin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28249	Dear Mr Milinkovic, the need for road and road cost is two completely different concepts. I was just talking about it that there are only two directions in Croatia that are only cost-effective for traffic. Doesn't mean and I don't see who drew the conclusion that other roads don't need to be built. Well, of course the roads should be built for traffic connections, what's the problem? I think I need to build a Peljek Bridge, so it's not a dispute. I'm just talking about that because of the irresponsibility to say so, and the inexplicability of these contracts is actually a problem now, no, and to reduce the damage that these contracts have caused, it's even likely that it's already been done by the state as far as the performers need to continue. And other roads should be built, not just those that this law will unfreeze to say no, like this Slavonic story and like this character I'm talking about. Well, with me not being a Lician, I guess I can also talk about face-to-face roads, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28250	Thank you. And on behalf of the proposer, Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Zdenko Antešić. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives. I thank you first of all for very constructive suggestions and remarks that will surely find places in the new Roads Act that should see bright daylight in the first half of this year. So as important as this road problem or traffic is, here's the fact that we've been since this morning, so we've turned a little bit into some so that they don't get me wrong about some life-saving issues. I don't mean by these Cyrillic inscriptions but by some other picturesque topics, and this is all understandable how important transport integration and roads as basic infrastructure objects should not be used up by words. However I see regardless of all this together that all clubs or most clubs have realized the essence of this very short law that has two articles and the meaning of this was in the next. We found myself so to express the frozen construction sites or projects where the works died, and some didn't even start. And the purpose of these amendments and the addition of this law is that projects are accelerated by existing contracts, prompted by the fact that in some places this whole road story will be rationalized, we are specifically talking about Podravska ipslon which would continue in a way that would end as a fast road, and the difference between a highway and a fast road is that there is no stopping trail in technical terms. I speak in a technical sense and, of course, it's much cheaper. And the contracts, it's done specifically in this part, about contracts that are somewhere worth 440 million kuna for this stage, they will be continued in the way they were agreed on, and further when that stage is over then the thing will take over the Croatian road and complete the whole story as planned. Of course, it requires a change in a certain regulatory, certain documentation, but the goal is to immediately and quickly start this whole story not to stand because it's exactly the kind of situation we have. I say once again, thank you for your advisory remarks, thank you for understanding all the clubs, and I'm sure this will be one small wheel to get this whole thing started, to run this whole road story, and actually that construction sector is moving from a dead end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28252	Thank you, Deputy Minister. We've reported five replicas. We can't get off the road. First move, Dinko Buric, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So when we talk about our concerns when we look at road plans and about Slavonia and Baranja, then I must remind you that Slavonia and Baranja is worryingly isolated not only when it comes to roads, but also when it comes to rail connections with the rest of the Republic of Croatia. We have recently witnessed a decision to abolish certain fast trains towards Osijek, according to Slavonia and Baranja, nowhere else is doubled and according to Slavonia, what has not been sufficient so far, and not to talk about the shameful fact, it is a shame for the Croatian state that the only air in Croatia since the whole time since the establishment of the Croatian state which has no permanent link where the national airline Croatia Airlines does not want to establish a line is Osijek airport where only once a week in the two months when the tourist season is and on Wednesday you give us the connection Osijek- Dubrovnik. Wednesdays and you know they usually change tours on Saturdays when tourists go. When it comes to air traffic, there's nothing for Slavonia and baranja, when it comes to rail, when it comes to road traffic, we don't have to ask, for example, to set up an air line with Osijek, so we don't want to take the boat to the 21st century. From Budapest or Belgrade to say, they might recognize that they could fly from Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28254	Thank you, fellow Buric. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister said that a new one, that this debate on this law, has opened certain vivid topics. Well, I'd say she's the one who opened life's themes and the road means life. You also said that certain projects that were under way died. So I tell you about the Subravo-Biogorski Ipsilon, so no one forced the Minister of Transport Mr. Hajdash-Doncic to write us that the works were being suspended, no one was forcing him and now you say, of course, the news that made me happy. You're saying we're continuing this Podravo-Bilogian Ipsilon, I absolutely welcome and look forward to it, but I'm saying it requires a change of some regulation, that's on with worry, that regulation until it starts, so it starts so long as it could take a while, and maybe never. And in that part, I express concern that you would not only remain on the trail of good wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28256	Thank you too, colleague. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28257	In 1960, a great Italian director received an Oscar for a foreign film with a picturesque or life titled "The Road of the Long Year". We in Slavonia have 20 years of roads, not a year, but 20 years. We have amendments, we have highway programs, we have Croatian road programmes, we have even voted that in Parliament, but once it enters, it all depends on ministers changing, entering one ear, going out to another. I would like the deputy minister to tell me now about the bar for these four state roads D38 Đakovo-Požega, D46 Đakovo-Vinkovci-Ilock, D515 Đakovo-Nasice and even this D7 which has fallen into a series of places Đakovo-Osjek, including a Đakovic bypass death. But not a word about it. In 2007, these amendments were accepted, although that authority did not do anything about it, just as I doubt that this government will work on it. I doubt it, and I'd like to fool myself. Honestly, I'd like to fool myself. And I'd love to see that there's a place close to you and that Louisiana famous of Maria Teresa here's that we like to baptize like Dimnacht and Red when that new asphalt comes in those Chapel Cresses. But I don't believe that this situation will change that Slavonia and Baranja and within themselves will remain unrelated to the state roads. If you have no road connection, then there are no new investments, no new jobs, no waking up of that construction operation. At the end of the day, we'll be left with the appendix. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28258	Thank you. Next replica Branko Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, I expected you to tell us here to the MPs and the public why the government did not bring a medium-term public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2013-2016? Why didn't you bring an annual road construction and maintenance plan in Croatia for 2013? What act will the Podravi Ipslon government reroute from the highway to the fast road? And when it is done only after that we should make an agreement in which Croatian roads would leave the construction of these fast roads to the Croatian roads. And after that, Croatian roads as a new investor would ask for a change of building permit according to new circumstances, because more then according to yours, and not according to ours, we disagree with it is no longer a fast highway but a fast road. And then Mr. Antesic you don't need this law because although you are this law we'll probably vote it on Friday, all of what I said you'll have to do to get a new investor or an old investor anyway who's going to need to ask for a change of building permit and without everything I've told you with a change of spatial plans it's hard to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28260	Thank you. And the last replica, Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Deputy Minister, you said you found frozen construction sites. First of all, I'd say you didn't even know what was going on in those construction sites, where it happened, how many miles of embankment was built, how many objects and all that was present. It was true and there were defaults in the payment, but you broke absolutely everything, broke the contracts, and there was huge damage. The damages that are measured in billions and irreparable. A tight interest resulting from the contract shall be the one that breaks the wages and those foames mentioned in the contract. Without any planning for a year you have spent insecurely on the damage of Croatian citizens, to the harm of employees at the expense of a construction operation at the expense of companies that are in bankruptcy or before bankruptcy. They didn't make negative contracts or contracts that are as harmful as I heard today. They weren't harmful contracts. These were real real contracts in real time for all the costs and parameters that the institutions of the Croatian State or those who made them. Public procurement control was also done by those chosen to control public procurement. Today when you talk about changing the highway into a fast road and as far as the Podravo-Biogorje ipsilon is concerned, there is no longer the possibility of concessionaries on the fast road. There is only the possibility of using EU funds. I don't know, you didn't tell us from which means you'd continue to build? From purely state resources or from European funds and when you expect to nominate if you will nominate at any position of eu funds that fast road.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28262	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28263	Well, here, Mr. Djakic, I have a few words to say even though I didn't think I'd have to go beyond the context of this law. But I'm just going to say a few facts about keeping some kind of suspicion or dilemma public. We found an analysis of the road problem signed by Dubrovnik-Doli contract with a group of performers, so HAC signed with a group of contractors a construction contract between Dubrovnik and Doli for a road for which there is no building permit. I'm not talking about a building permit at all, but there's not even any documentation except some idea solutions, not to mention that there's been an insurance fund to build. So that's a fact. Such, if we don't get involved now because it's not a topic, it's not a goal, the goal is to start the economy, to start this road construction, and to move from a dead end, such or similar exhibitions were very much both fortunately and unfortunately, or unfortunately, the guilty are in some institutions that are now to say one president, in the institutions of the state that are doing their job. There are people like that, and I hope there will be more. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28264	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28265	Let's vote on the final points of the agenda in the Croatian Parliament, therefore discussed. First is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Roads Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 253. The debate on the text of the final law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28266	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28267	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most votes, 91 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 7 abstentions have been passed by the Law supplementing the Road Law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28268	We continue with - Final draft law on the electricity market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 237 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The amendment can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Do you have a representative of the Proposer... here's the deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The government is giving you a proposal for a law on the electricity market. It is, of course, the adoption of the third energy directive package with which this law is harmonised and the standards it has adopted in its text. This proposal proposes to regulate the following issues: primary rules and measures to carry out energy activities and how electricity production, both from renewable energy sources and cogeneration plants, transmission, distribution, electricity, organisation of the electricity market, supply of electricity on the market, electricity trading, as well as the rights and obligations of the final buyer of electricity, access and separation of business books, financial reports of electricity operators, access to the network and of course the infringement provisions which are also in line with the requirements that standardise those Directives. What we specifically draw attention to, or, of course, to what we specifically refer to, to this law is the requirement to separate the network activity of electricity transmission from the production and supply of electricity that can be achieved by selecting one of the three models of construction, i.e. to restructure the separation of companies into two independent of which one TSO transmission system operator is, by dividing two companies by an independent system operator model when the system is operated by an undertaking that does not own an ISO network and by a separate independent transmission operator when the company remains unique but the company has a daughter of that company owned by a network and managed by an ITO model. The choice of models is decided by the owner of the company. For undertakings that were within a vertically integrated undertaking under the Directive on 3 September 2009 and engaged in the transmission of electricity, one of these three models is possible, while for new energy entities wishing to build a transmission network and become a transmission system operator, the TSI model is required. As regards HEP, a unique structure is considered according to the model of an independent transmission operator, i.e. an ITO model that is very similar to the model of separation to two companies, etc. The TSI model, with the ITO transfer operator remaining within the HEP group. In this proposal for a law, the conditions for implementing the model guaranteeing independence in the day-to-day business for which HERA is responsible are also proposed. The HERA responsible for the work of the Croatian Parliament must ensure that the conditions for the proper operation of the transmission system operator comply with the requirements of the Directive without changing the ownership structure of HEP. The basic assets of the Croatian transmission system operator as it will be called in the future must be clearly separated from other parts of the HEP group, and these are high-level networks in the future when they are citizens of the European so-called. The electrical highways of the highest voltages. On HEP d.d. it is clear that... the means over which the transfer is carried out and from those belonging to the distribution. As regards an operator of a distribution system operating at lower voltage levels, its underlying assets do not have to be allocated from the HEP group, but in the day-to-day business businesses must have business independence from other activities within the group. In the event that it is established that its position in the HEP group prevents the development of the market, the Government may decide to allocate the basic assets of the distribution system operator in the manner provided for in the transfer. It is important to stress that all procedures must be clear, they must be transparent. Since 2014, a single electricity market has been established in the Union where all participants carrying out the same type of electricity activity have the same rights and responsibilities, and the European Union bodies, the European Energy Market Regulator ACER and the European Commission are permanently monitoring that market. The law further proposes the adoption of 10-year and 3-year development plans and 1-year investment plans of transmission and distribution system operators approved by HERA. In accordance with the development, maintenance and work plans, the HERA network shall bring prices for network connection and for the use of transmission and distribution networks. So far, HERA has brought only methodologies and given an opinion on the proposal for the amount of prices, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought them. Electricity supply, also market activity, except for the supply provided as a public service, which is universal supply and guaranteed supply. The right to universal supply is provided by customers of the age category of household unless they want to participate in the market and choose their supplier freely. The right to guaranteed supply shall be granted by all buyers if their market supplier ceases to work. The way in which universal services and guaranteed services are provided shall be determined by the methodologies made by HERA, and the Government shall determine by its decision the electricity entities which determine the obligation to provide the electricity supply service to be provided as universal or guaranteed. Until a decision is made by the Government, the customer supplier who has the right to universal or guaranteed supply continues to provide the service. In particular, the quality of electricity supply is regulated. HER is the one that lays down the conditions or rules on the quality of electricity supply. Furthermore, the obligations of suppliers to end customers are specified in detail. Provisions shall be introduced on purchasers of the tariff category of household under special protection under universal supply, regional cooperation areas shall also be defined, or regional cooperation in the field of electricity shall be promoted and infringement provisions or sanctions shall be prescribed for those participants who violate regulations or also endanger competition in the electricity sector. It's final. This proposal for a law analoguely implements all the requirements of the third energy package, which refers to how the procedures for the construction of new production capacity through the approval system, the exceptional implementation of the public tender, the insurance of the development of the construction of the electricity network, the criteria and procedures for accessing and the use of the transmission network or distribution network, the surveillance of security of supply, the technical rules of the electrical energy system, the separation of transmission activities from the production and supply of electricity, and the tasks of the transmission system operator, the separation and operation of the distribution system operator, additional powers and responsibilities of HER in this area, and the legal position and protection of electricity customers. I would like to thank you for your attention and thank you for the debate that has been held on the working bodies, i.e. the parliamentary committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28270	I thank the Deputy Minister. We have one replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28271	Dear Deputys, I agree that it should be transparent and then let's immediately explain to the Croatian public clearly and loudly that this law should be called not the Law on the electricity market, but the Law on the start of privatisation and the sale of Croatian electricity. And that's a fact. A similar law was also for INA, was for Croatian railways, for banks, for Croatian telecommunications, and this is a law that really leads to the sale of Croatian electricity. Maybe she's lost, maybe she's wrong with management. Maybe the management of the former or current one led to these losses. But in any case, this does not mean that Croatia must give up its national wealth. That definitely doesn't mean that. In a similar way, we will probably have the Law on the Water Market very quickly, the Law on the Market of the Forests, and we will be rid of Croatian Waters and Croatian Forests, and the air is already in view of that refinery in Slavonski Brod, but in order for me not to enter certain interstate bilateral relations like this, I will refrain from these refineries. Otherwise, it smells very bad, it pollutes the air not only in Slavonia and Baranja, but throughout Croatia. And as for the very end of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the name and last name of the agency sounds very bitter, so it's a fig leaf for what the government wants to do. That fig leaf proved to be a cover for that Avasluk and that terror over the acquisition of that price of heat energy where all units of local self-government were excluded. You don't have a chain, but if you were, you'd be against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28272	My colleague, we in Ivanac, unfortunately more expensively heat up on wood and gas than you who have heat and do not complain. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Here's a colleague of Vinkovic's. The Committee for Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28273	Mr Vice-President, the deputy deputy minister with co-worker, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government at the 14th session held on 23 January 2013 discussed this bill. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, he pointed out that the adoption of the Electricity Market Act would create conditions for secure and quality supply of electricity, market development, competitiveness of prices, consumer protection, efficient production and use of electricity, sustainable development in the electricity sector, and reduce the negative impact on the environment. In the discussion of board members, the question is whether this law means liberalising the electricity market, how it will affect the price of electricity, or whether it will bring a lower energy price to our citizens. It is expressed concern that the electricity price will continue to be high and that this law will not contribute to a reduction in energy prices. After the debate was held, the Committee on Local Administration decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Electricity Market Act. Thanks, I didn't mention the verb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28274	Thank you. Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. On behalf of the HNS Club Natalija Martincevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28275	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is what the Deputy Minister and Deputy Minister pointed out to me, as necessary, the legal framework of the Croatian energy sector, and in short terms, we need to comply with the EU acquis. This is, of course, also related to the EU self-evaluation which assessed the functioning of the electricity market in Croatia as non-transparent and in good part not marketable and therefore Croatia with the closure of Chapter 15 in pre-accession negotiations obliged to implement a new energy package within the deadlines within which other EU members must do so. This is, of course, one of the objectives, and other objectives are to ensure safe and quality energy supply, development of the electricity market, competitiveness of prices, consumer protection, efficient production and use of energy and of course environmental protection. A few months ago, we passed the Energy Act as a roof law for the entire energy sector, and this law sets out both the frameworks and the clear rules relating to the electricity market. It is also clear that individual legal institutes and proposed legal solutions represent quite a lot of newspapers in the organisation and functioning of the electricity sector, both for energy entities and for competent institutions, both ultimately and for customers. But the interests of the Republic of Croatia in this area are clear. This is primarily to ensure sufficient production and supply of electricity for both citizens and for business and development of economic operators. And what's of course most important at real prices. What this law sets is important issues related to the future organisation and development of the market and the relationship of participants in the electricity market. In fact, the EU electricity market should function in 2014 when it will be free to choose between electricity suppliers in the EU. Which, of course, opens up the possibility that EU suppliers can buy energy on the Croatian market. So, the competitive electricity price on the one hand and the secure and reliable supply of electricity on the other hand is Croatia's main interests, and in order to achieve them, we need to adapt to legislation, but in fact, the most important business and way of doing our electricity sector. This law further lays down very important issues of public service obligations. It is clear from the public service that there is an obligation to provide public electricity supply services as a universal service, which ensures the right of customers in the category of households to provide electricity to the prescribed quality as well as the right to an equal price throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, it protects the right customer in cases where it cannot affect the circumstances and when it loses supply. This may occur where the supplier is no longer able to supply the final customer in accordance with the supply contract due to possible bankruptcy, insolvency, electricity market disturbances, and these are all real risks posed by the open market. This law also ensures the protection of vulnerable customers and prevents the appearance of so-called. energy poverty. The threatened customers shall be entitled to supply in accordance with the decision of the competent social care authority. Because of the price of energy, our citizens have found themselves under a great deal of impact and something out of objective circumstances that we as a state cannot influence, and that is simply the fact that the prices of energy in the world are growing but mostly because of an irresponsible policy that has not been dealt with in any way in all these years and tried to solve it. And precisely because of this blow to our citizens, this law provides for the protection of our most endangered citizens. It is also important to note here that public service must be provided in an impartial, transparent and easily verifiable manner. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to inform the European Commission of any measures taken with regard to public service obligations including the protection of final customers. HERA, on the other hand, is obliged to carry out consultations with representatives of consumer protection organisations regarding the decision on the amount of tariff items, i.e. the price for individual electricity activities carried out as a public service. In addition to the universal service, there is a guaranteed supply of electricity, and it supplies the final buyer with electricity without a specific demand from the final customer in the event of the outage of its supplier from the electricity market if the final buyer cannot affect the circumstances and thus loses its supply without protection. The procedure for the exit of the problem supplier from the electricity market, regardless of the form of its exit, is laid down by the rules of the organisation of electricity markets. The second part that regulates this law is market activities involving electricity production, electricity trade and end-of-life supply. They are based on rules governing market relations where the quantities and prices of electricity supplied are freely negotiated or negotiated. The objectives are, of course, to meet the needs of customers but also to achieve a safe, reliable and quality supply of electricity, while respecting the principle of competition and the equal position of all market operators. It is important to underline that the law clearly determines that distribution and transmission of electricity remain regulated activities, supply and production of electricity become market activities. And here we come to a key point, which is that electricity will not be purchased from power plants that are not competitive but will look for cheaper electricity sources in the EU market while the transmission of electricity will remain under control and control of the state. And of course we are coming up with the inevitable issue of restructuring HEP. The law states that the company will be able to decide itself on the organisational model of the organisation of the transmission system operator. The chosen HEP model proposes how it plans to organise its activities and calls for the certification of HERA, which will require the approval of the European Commission for this model. In the case of a positive response from the European Commission, HERA shall decide and actively monitor the restructuring process which must be completed within 12 months of the date of adoption of this law. Yesterday, on the Committee on Economy, we had the opportunity to hear a lot of complaints about the choice of models, which I have to admit was quite confusing with the fact that this process was due to begin in 2009. So the HDZ government could decide for whatever model it wanted, could apply it, so they had two years to choose a model and to restructure HEP. But as usual, they did nothing. And here may be more about deadlines, the importance of deadlines in preparing this debate for the law I have come to the conclusion that the European Commission is very much monitoring and sanctioning these deadlines and applying high penalties, so here are our neighbours, Slovenians, already paying 25 thousand euros per day under the directive due to delays, and Poland has been paying as much as 80,000 euros. In conclusion, this law will create conditions for safe and quality electricity supply, ensure market development and price competitiveness but what is most important will ensure customer protection and therefore the HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28276	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dinko Buric signed up first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28277	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you spoke of the fact that on the Committee on the Economy on several very important issues, this is true, but here is the report that we have seen that another very important issue has been raised and that is the fact that there is a question of the ownership of the trafo station and the fact that in the good part of the cases of the construction of these trafostations has been financed by local administrations and self-government units. They are dedicated to the management of HEP and now what municipalities and cities have funded in such a highly centralised state with little funding. We now hand him over to HEP and bring him in and that's the first step towards what his colleague Vinkovic said. We're coming to the point where it's gonna end up in someone else's hands. This is just one of the questions that's opening up about this. There will be during our discussions and other issues, but when you mentioned the Committee on Economy and Discussion on it, here I want to point out to you this very important fact that needs to be discussed here. We will discuss the other issues during further discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28278	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, fellow Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28279	Well, here's a little bit. And this model was chosen precisely because this model best protects interests and best protects the public well-being of the Republic of Croatia and precisely by applying this model will not allow HEP to be privatised. It is also the purpose and purpose of this so that it does not happen to us, exactly what happened to Ina that Plinac was singled out afterwards, the privatisation of Ina was made possible and then it was possible for Ina to end up in the hands of Hungary's MOL, which is now actually managed by the largest national company. This law is what makes it impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28280	And Nancy Tyrell's next replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28281	Thank you, Vice President. I'd really be very happy if this answer to the replica was true, yes, but we've got a lot of time left to discuss, so we'll get that straight. Well, here's a replica of this, you said we had a very short deadline, so let's pass these laws by the emergency procedure. The third energy regulatory package was adopted on EU bodies 13. July 2009. Years. We are now January, late January 2013. So we've had enough time. The task force promised that the law would not go into emergency procedures but would follow normal procedures. You mentioned the other EU members who did so, and so do we. The Euroelectrics Working Group conducted a survey on the state of application of the third package in the EU Member States and included Croatia among other things. And the result of this research was published in March 2012. It also shows that a large number of countries have not yet complied with the requirements of Directive 2009/72. Through EC i.e. Third package. So here's what it doesn't look like everyone's in there. Poland and Slovenia are paying for the penalty but we would have to ask ourselves why someone pays for the penalty. Probably because he cares about the interest of his own energy laws, unlike those of us who are here fast, we put everything in the EU package and just one more detail. You have noted that this will benefit, that there will be no electricity from power plants that are not competitive, so no more buying expensive electricity, but we will probably talk about HEP and buying a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28282	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, fellow Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28283	Well, I have to admit, I don't understand you very well right now. In fact, you started your line with us being very late, so now in the end, let's hurry. We have legal deadlines in which we must adapt our legislation to the EU acquis. That's something we made a commitment to when we joined our negotiations, when we concluded chapters 15 in pre-accession negotiations, and that's something we have to respect. As other countries respect, some respect, some don't respect, those who don't respect, pay the penalty, that's what I said in my debate. If you think that protecting the interests of the state is the way to pay for the pens, and that ultimately has to be accepted again, I don't think that's the way to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28284	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mirel Holly. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28286	Excuse me, colleague. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28287	I protest Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, in the morning when I applied, I was second in line, behind the HNS Club was me. I mean, it doesn't matter to me, but it doesn't happen several times to someone. Mrs. Jadranka said the other one was your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28288	I'll take the secretary to the plenary session. But I got a schedule like this on the table and I see it's in the computer, Dr. Sc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28289	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28290	Here's the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28291	It doesn't matter to me, but it happens a few times already. Here's Mrs. Jadranka said you're second in line, now I'm third in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28292	That's not true. Here's the list. I don't think there's any basis to object to colleague Vuksic. Excuse me again, colleague Holly, continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28293	esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. At the very beginning of the presentation on the final draft of the Electricity Market Act on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law, which brings domestic legislation into line with EU directives. 3. A European energy package. Unfortunately, we are doing this alignment with a great delay because the Republic of Croatia promised to bring domestic legislation into line with 3 in the time of the temporary closure of the negotiating chapter 15, which covers energy. The European Energy Package until March 2011. So we're almost two years late and in these two years we've done nothing sensational to justify this delay. It is fortunate that because of this delay, we do not have to pay for the penalty, but the deadlines in which we will pay for the penalty unless we make visible shifts in terms of full implementation of the energy directives, which are not financially harmless to us at all, is approaching us. In that sense, at the SDP club, we are convinced that it would be extremely irresponsible not to support the adoption of this law even though with its contents we are not always fully satisfied. Why do we have certain reserves according to the text of this final bill? The text of this law is very complicated we would say impervious even for lawyers who do not also possess certain knowledge from the field of electricity, and the laws should be understandable not only to lawyers but also to the average educated citizens and citizens of Croatia. The complexity of the law stems not only from the fairly mechanical takeover of the EU's content, but from a rather incomprehensible fact that the proposer of the laws of the Ministry of Economy decided in the final proposal of the law to keep all three proposed models from the EU directive, or that the ministry did not clearly decide for the ITO, ISO or TSO model, to separate the transfer from the vertically integrated company. The ministry suffered from all three models, which undoubtedly caused no problems with the team who wrote the law because the final decision to choose for Croatia the most acceptable model of the law had to provide for three different scenarios of the future Croatian electricity market. Unfortunately, due to the complexity of the problem, there have been some discrepancies in certain articles of the law that must be antipicated or envisioned by all three variants, because in certain provisions of the law, the choice of the TSI is predicted in the opposite of the notices of the proposed person, rather than the ITO model that the HEP favours. Where's that visible? This is evident in the transitional and final provisions of the draft law, in particular in Article 76(6), which gives the impression that the state has decided on a TSI model rather than on an ITO model that all colleagues and colleagues who listened and listened to the presentation of representatives and representatives of the ministry on boards have had the opportunity to learn about the selected model. In view of the fact that the law allows for the selection of any of the three models of the HEP OPS to be singled out, why is this article and the entry anti-nomination in the company HOPS d.o.o. is then it actually means that the selected model TSO does not ISO or ITO. Otherwise, an independent Croatian independent ISO transmission system operator or an independent ITO transmission operator should be written in the name. Given the fact that this debate is being heard, the question is, and is seen by citizens and citizens of Croatia who in energy 3. The European energy package and the proposed European models know probably much less than I do, and I am certainly not an energy-educated person, I am sure they are absolutely incomprehensible to ITO, ISO, TSO model and what implications the Croatian electricity system will have to choose which of the models offered. ITO, ISTO and TSO models are ways in which EU Member States can separate network activities, hence the transmission of electricity from the production of electricity. The reason why the EU insists that European countries separate the transmission from production by abolishing the monopoly of national energy companies that, in the vast majority of European countries, prevent the liberalisation of the electricity market as they protect their privileged monopolies. The separation of network activities from production is a key step leading to the introduction of market principles in 2015 of the common electricity market in Europe because it allows all producers of electricity under the same conditions at the same price without obstruction and discrimination to make access to network activities currently controlled by HEP in Croatia. This is particularly important for renewable energy producers across Europe to meet the obstructions of national energy companies that did not want new players to take a little bit at a time, considered and considered their cookies. The EU through 3. The European Energy Package allows Member States to enter through the selection of one of the three models offered by separating networks from production activities. Therefore, the interest of the professional public in the proposal of the Ministry of Economy expected that the ministry as a representative of the state, and only the state could determine the strategic interest and choose as a roof state strategy for the model that is best for Croatia, clearly determine and select one of the three models offered. Unfortunately, the ministry did not do this, but decided from us a completely unclear reason to leave the choice of the model to HEP therefore to a company whose monopoly is implemented 3. The European Energy Package aims to contain or completely break. However, unless the HEP manages in time to detach the transmission system operator from HEP under any model of sanctions, it will bear the Republic of Croatia, not HEP, and this will be the political responsibility of the Minister of Economy and MING, not HEP and Mr Koracevic. It is known to the professional public that HEP favours the ITO model, which is absolutely understandable from the position of the company's interest, because with the help of this model HEP will preserve the greatest impact on network activities or their control. Why? The ITO model is an independent transmission operator model that implies that HEP amends, within the time limit set by this law, a declaration of the establishment of HEP OPS, the recapitalisation by entering into the underlying capital of things and rights relating to the transmission network and ensures other conditions of independence which it oversees and approves HERA as a regulator. In other words, with this model, the transmission operator remains under the hat of the HEP group, the model is the most administratively complicated and requires constant control of the regulator for which we have reasonable doubts that HERA will be unable to implement because of all other tasks it has under the Energy Act and the HERA Act. This model is the only successful of all the members who have chosen the ITO model implemented Austria with great difficulty, although it is a very well-organised system and a country which Croatia is not yet unfortunately. Other countries that have opted for the ITO model have major implementation problems, and some are already paying for foams like Bulgaria today. The second model is the TSI model, i.e. the ownership separation model of the transmission system operator which implies the following. Within the deadline provided for by this law, HEP shall implement the recapitalisation, introduce HEP OPS matters and rights related to the transmission network. The second step is to move the stake in HEP OPS to the Republic of Croatia. The new and sole owner of the transmission operator of the Republic of Croatia changes the company's company to the HOPS, the Croatian transmission system operator and, within the time limit provided for by HEP and the transmission system operator, the contract to assume the obligations of HEP d.d. in relation to the transmission network. This model has been selected by a large number of members of the European Union and has so far proved to be the best in practice. What is crucial for this model is that the state, through a new company, has its natural monopoly in its possession and removes the possibility of privatisation and thus separates the transport system of gas from the INA, which has proved to be extremely successful. In the gas business, Croatia has applied a TSO model that has proved successful, we have experience in its implementation, and there is a legitimate question why we do not apply the same successful model to the electricity market. This is, according to our court, a model that best safeguards the public interest of the Republic of Croatia. The third model is the ISO model, i.e. the model of an independent system transmission operator, which implies that HEP is established by the HEP within the time limit provided for by law by the HEP transmission network and that things and rights related to the transmission network are introduced into the underlying capital. In the second step, the HEP stake in HEP OPS moves to the Republic of Croatia after which the new and only owner of the Republic of Croatia changes the company to an independent transmission system operator. Within the time limit provided for in this Act, HEP and HEP transmission networks shall enter into a transfer agreement for HEP d.d. in relation to the transmission network, and HERA monitors and approves the commercial and financial relations of HEP d.d. and HEP transmission network d.o.o. In this model, the operator remains under the control of HEP and the control of the non-discriminatory principle of access to the network is carried out by HERA as a regulator. This model is in Europe, as far as I know, implemented by the only Greece, has a lot of problems, and it seems to me that the current situation is so prepared to privatise network activities. The choice of the model is extremely important because it depends on whether Croatia will retain control of a strategic natural monopoly called the transmission of electricity in the future. For example, if the transfer remains within the HEP group and one day a future government under EU pressure or for some other reason decides to privatise HEP, we can easily lose a strategic natural monopoly, which would be an irreparable loss and almost betray national interests. We must not forget that the transmission network was built with their means by generations of Croatian citizens and citizens and that it is a capital that we simply cannot gamble with. It must also be of key interest to the State to allow equal access to the transmission network to all entities, whether it is HEP or private domestic or foreign investors to enter energy projects, to develop the electricity market, because meeting the energy needs of the population is one of the key strategic obligations of the state. In this regard, we appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to demonstrate the maximum seriousness and long-term protection of the strategic energy interests of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, we warn of two other illogical provisions in the law, Article 11(8), which is not clear why the first purchase of renewable electricity is introduced for a period of 25 years, because the incentives last 14 years, and given the fact that the electricity market is being introduced, this provision constitutes a distortion of competition and it would be wise for the Government to correct it by its amendment to this proposal of the law. In addition, in Article 77(1) for the supply of final customers in the household category, HEP ODS is currently in charge. The new law does not allow it to supply customers, so it is necessary to set the time limit to which it is allowed, i.e. when the Government of the Republic of Croatia will decide as set out in Article 5(5). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28294	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first one was Dinko Buric. Here's your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28295	This is one of the most interesting discussions we've heard in this government's term of office. I hope this wasn't your farewell speech on behalf of the SDP club because it's what the swan song of your SDP membership is called. If this is the position of the club, then this is a very significant debate that shows the Croatian public clearly how relations rule within the ruling coalition when it comes to SDP and HNS. This is a resor that covers the HNS, the Ministry of Economy. I'm very interested in Miss Holly's vote when this law is passed, because after everything you've said, this is a real opposition debate. You pointed to everything the opposition parties will say. To be out of line with the former President of the Parliament, there are many politicians who often disagree with their own opinion, the Croatian public will be very interested in whether you will raise your hand to this law after such a debate or will be against it. If you are consistent and against this, then you will be on the trail of what the opposition warns you. The danger of this law is precisely that the first step towards the privatisation of HEP. Be consistent and reassure us, and this is another proof that this law, such an important law, must never go into emergency procedure in any way. They were alive and saw how you would vote when it came to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28296	We have a response to the replica. Here you go, fellow Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28297	Dear colleague, I don't think you've listened very well to my argument at least not since the beginning. Given that at the very beginning of the debate, I said that the SDP club would support the adoption of this law, I will support the adoption of this law because it would be very irresponsible not to support at this time the law that we are harmonising with the third European energy package. I don't usually change my mind depending on whether I'm in opposition or in position. Unfortunately, most politicians in the Republic of Croatia tend to do so. But at this point, regardless of the lack of law, and the greatest, lack of this law is that it has all three models in it. I have absolutely no objection to the state's decision on the ITO model. We can make a mistake in some things, maybe we won't make a mistake. I don't know, I'm not energetic enough in that area. But I don't think it's right for the state to leave it to HEP. I hope we choose the best model possible. Each of these models has its weaknesses and weaknesses. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a final decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28298	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here's my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28299	... to find the time already going on whether I start talking or not. [[Specially enabled.]] Dear fellow Mirela, I read an article somewhere, so I don't know if the media mistranslated it, but exactly where you were talking about this law that it was somewhere on the trail of an Austrian model that didn't prove good. And this whole debate of yours has been focused practically against this law. Now I don't know much about personal hygiene. I don't think my Eustahi tubes are exactly closed and I hear very well. And this is true, and if you're really saying that on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, then it's obviously one Then what is it? [[/Invader Batinić: A colleague of Vinkovic to what do you replicate? This is not a replica you're saying.]] Can you explain to me what that is? [[Invader Batinić: No.]] So this is exclusively for total exposure. [[/Upadica Batinić: So study the Rules of Procedure. What are you replicating? What quote?]] Please stop the time for me. So this is one position of the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. And what my colleague Buric said and what I said right away. This law is not a law on the electricity market. This is the Law on Privatisation and Sale of Croatian Electro-Sales and the sale will not be decided by the Croatian Parliament, no Croatian citizen will decide but exclusively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And that's clear to you. On the other hand, we warned about it. This law will not bring down the price of electricity, but rather will bring about the elimination of the monopoly of Croatia's current electricity industry and the creation of losses, but we will sell the monopoly to foreigners as we want to do the monetization of Croatian highways, so we will make the HEP monetize. That's how much you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28300	Thanks, buddy. Time. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28301	Dear colleague, this is not the law on the privatisation of HEP. What happens next will depend not on this government but probably on some other governments that will come after this government. I hope that it will be the same Government of the Republic of Croatia and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will always be responsible for protecting the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And since you have certain observations on, so let's critical thinking about certain aspects of the law that I have issued on behalf of the SDP club, I want to inform you that the party president said that he does not want representatives from the club and representatives from the SDP club in the Croatian Assembly to discuss in the way that clubs and representatives of the ruling parties have discussed so far, or that he wants us not to raise laurels to certain laws, but to have a realistic view of what is being discussed. I hope I discussed this bill realistically. But I repeat, the SDP club will support this bill because it would be extremely irresponsible for the country's strategic interests not to adopt this law at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28302	Thank you. Next replica Natalija Martincevic. Here you go, fellow Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28303	Well, dear colleague Holly, you've really violated this bill so much that I really don't know what's going to be left with the opposition to the argument. It's nice to hear your president say that's really great. I think in this debate you turned the saw upside down. You were talking about that TSO model being a very successful model applied to the example of INA. Well, for example, INA is exactly what can't happen to us, which is to single out transfers, distribution, to leave behind a company that some HDZ or I don't know whose government is privatizing. That's exactly what can't happen. And the ITO model is a model that protects it, that it can't and can't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28304	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, fellow Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28305	Well, seeing that problem can be viewed in different ways. This way, if we hadn't singled out PLINACRO from the INA, it would have happened if PLINACRO had been privatized because we would've privatized INA anyway. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28306	Thank you very much. This is what we used up the replicas. ... What did you need with your colleague Vinkovic? [[You can't hear him.]] You raised your hand. Here you go. Yeah, and you got your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28307	Thank you. So here is the spirit of tolerance in this Croatian Assembly, and I advise you to put both clubs together and make a deal. I don't think we're watching you fight here at the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28308	My colleague Vinkovic, please sit down. I recommend you say that on your break. We continue, my colleague Vinkovic, sit down, I take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28309	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28310	We're continuing an individual debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28311	Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, respected deputy ministers and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. It is not a problem to pass the law in time, the law should be passed in time, but not to pass such a law. Here, as an introduction. I am convinced that this law, the law on the electricity market, will not enter history no matter how complicated, no matter what hidden, hidden or becoming increasingly difficult in this I believe the honorable intentions in it are. But without any doubt, the head of the team behind the law yesterday's statement was to be remembered in this extended transition period. The statement gave me the right light not only on the Electricity Market Act but on everything the Government of Zoran Milanovic is doing. Mr. Vrdoljak, Ivan, not Antun, in order to avoid confusion, he told the gathered employers, tycoons, managers, and led by Ivica Mudrinić, a man who, without the consequences of wild construction, defiled the island of Žut, so Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak spoke heartily to the divine gathering, thank you for paying us and for feeding your employees. Scandalous! The tycoons don't feed their workers, but keep the workers safe, if there were no goodness of them, so many Wise men, Todorics, Tedeschi, we would starve to death. They only make good capitalists. According to Vrdoljak, workers are, excuse the employees, red peronospora, intruders, ears useless that broad-breasted tycoons feed. One of the most recent statements in the 22 years of Croatia's multilaterals makes caution when reading this Law on the electricity market. I am now no longer doubtful but I am sure that this law, foreplay for the sale of HEP, is on the grounds that the law is passed in order to better define public service, the greater security of electricity supply in order to liberalise the electricity market and protect customers, especially those small ones whose back is almost all the burden of the crisis. But Minister Vrdoljak thanks for his kindness to the debaucher of the island of Yellow who, if our society rests on ethics, should be left without all social functions. But by-lawly paid managers and tycoons are all allowed because of our great heart food as if we were really in the slave system of our employees. Although the law is passed, it states, in order to separate the network activity of electricity transmission from the production and supply of electricity and one of three models. The first system of an independent transmission operator was established as an independent company... separately from the vertically integrated entity of the company more specifically HEP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But still owned by HEP. The second model of an independent NOS or ISO NSOS operator is established as an independent company carrying out the activity of a transport, or transmission system where the transmission network facilities remain owned by HEP. The third model is an OPS or TSI operator established as a company carrying out the activity of the transmission system operator and owned by the transmission network facility. This assumes the ownership and functional separation of the transmission activity from the production and supply of electricity. Complicated, but all for one purpose – the sale of HEP regardless of which model. I'll explain later. As translated into a comprehensible lay language, three models have been offered in law and one will choose not a state but a HEP. What model is that? They say NOP or ITO system which is the most complicated but thanks to the employees to Mr. Koračević for feeding them because of the great heart, so this system is more Labourically better for workers, i.e. unions and workers more favourable. As safe as possible. Yesterday, on the Committee on Economy, we heard a comment that way in the country because unions decide on business. But the unions decided you will not believe in both Germany and France, Austria and the Czech Republic. There, in hard capitalism versus our socialism intertwined in the interpretations of the tycoon, communist customs allow workers to influence business, decision-making, at least some of the profits. And no one tells them to have capitalists like some kind of food drone. In particular, workers should not be treated by politicians who belong to some kind of truth to a papered social democratic political spectrum. The state, as you can see, raises its hands from decision-making. It is not even ready to state clearly in the law which model of restructuring of the electricity system is assigned. It lowers the decision to a lower level, to the board of directors. This time, the government does not take responsibility, although the Kukurik coalition still won the election. Why all these complicated terminology, complicated models and long processes? To say liberalise the market, to allow real competition in the production and supply of electricity. Because we will use another neoliberal trap to make the free market a lower price. The truth is different. By entering the EU, electricity will gradually accumulate because the government will no longer be able to treat it as a social factor. The EU does not allow incentives for electricity due to the market, due to competition but after the adoption of the Electricity Market Act, new measures will be established to boost the production of electricity from renewable sources when all this legal internal electricity market will function more correctly, the balance between supply and demand legislation guarantees will be achieved. You'll be able to order electricity from whoever you want and at the price of course which one you want to buy electricity from determines. The question is will you be able to pay for water heating, for all lamps, for oven, for television, for washing machine or dishwasher, for vacuum cleaner. Will a small consumer of households be able to pay a market price for electricity that is lower than prices in most European countries today? The only thing lower prices seem to me is Bulgaria, Romania and the Baltic countries. The most electricity prices are in Denmark, Germany, Austria, Italy and Belgium. And as we compare the price of electricity, we need to compare the standard in Croatia and the standard in Denmark or Belgium for a more credible picture. The Belgian or German standards won't catch up in 50 years, but the price of electricity will reach in a year or two. This law doesn't regulate those issues. On the contrary, it only allows the market to regulate the price of electricity. But let's go back to those three models that determine the character of the transmission of electricity, the one that binds the rational and particularly splenic neoliberal Germany has defined as the most complicated I TO or NOP system I owe the answer. Of course, not only were the Germans thinking of workers whom the German Minister of Economy as useless drones or leeches wanted ownership of infrastructure. Which we, when we talk about telecommunications, have easily given up in favour of foreign companies, companies in significant ownership of the German state which is absurd. By sucking HEP, by decommissioning production, by transferring distribution, selling electricity is certainly not a sin in itself. The entry into the market of new electricity producers and before that, the builder of the power plant can also bring goods to HEP which will have to adapt to new operating conditions. However, the issue of all issues is transfer management and distribution networks. It is now the management of transmission and distribution networks that is most important for the development of the market. The question of all questions is whether the government will only now have a majority in the Croatian Parliament under the cover of opening the market to sell out, broken down HEP. Within a year, the transmission system operator will have to be organised as an independent person's right outside the HEP group, but the public is almost unanimity in state ownership. And this topic, but this law is causing public attention. The law is particularly interested in all those who, at the invitation of the previous but also of these current authorities, set out in the adventure of putting solar power plants on the roofs of their houses in order to sell electricity to HEP in addition to encouraging, preferential prices. But ten days ago, Minister Vrdoljak said, the quota to encourage and use solar energy was met despite changes in the tariff system. What about those who did not request the conclusion of an electricity purchase contract from integrated solar power plants submitted by 31.12.2012. Are the quotas filled seven years before the deadline because large players with thick ties and with a sense of percentage have entered the game. And finally something about the protection of customers especially those in households. Croatia's competition markets do not bring much good to end-users, which also proves the market for telecommunications services, telecommunications operators insist only on the obligations of users, their rights deny them. In order to exercise your right or to object, you must experience the tantalum of torture, corporate culture, racketeering and the monopoliest HEP racketars of its customers to whom it refers as to unsecured slavery with regard to the minister, whatever it says in the laws. Who will enforce these laws in practice? Courts ruled by chaos and private interests. What can you do when HEP sends you such a threatening message without any explanation you owe, and although you do not owe it. If you don't pay within seven days, we rule out what you owe HEP doesn't explain. Can you talk to anyone, try to win them, try talking to them, you have to do everything and even double-pay the same bill but they don't have to do anything. They are protected by the law, protected by the position of the holy cow, protected by the courts, protected by the executive law, protected by the authority that accepts the division of the citizens of the first and second order, to the touching and untouchable. It remains suspected that this bill is foreplay for the sale of HEP, part by piece, certainly in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28312	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28313	My dear colleague, I am pleased that you have recognized that this is not an introduction to the sale of HEP, but it is the beginning of the sale and privatisation of HEP. And no matter how hard the proposer tried to convince all of us that this law would create a safe, quality supply of electricity, that the market would develop, that we would have price competitiveness, that we would have customer protection, so today I don't have that customer protection. And we really don't. Not even those privileged consumers are protected because they pay double electricity and distribute spent kilowatts. The citizens are probably wondering, so here's what I'm going to suggest, let's give the Nobel Prize to whoever explains it to the citizens or to us and I'm the consumer of electricity, how the kilowatt is calculated, and what's paid in that kilowatt. On the other hand, I find this extremely likable. We pass this law by emergency procedure, we have members of the Kukuriku coalition who argue over this law, have different opinions on this law. Then why are we bringing him in on an emergency procedure? You didn't agree with him. He said the party's president said that SDP's speech should be here not to throw roses but practically thorns under the laws proposed by the government, so there is probably no opposition in this House. But when Friday comes and when the vote comes, then we won't really agree not with our brains, brains or their own opinions, but we'll agree just as the party president says. Now that there are 4 party presidents in that coalition Who are we gonna listen to here? [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28314	Comrade Vinkovic, please. Replicate counterpart Vuksic, he was not talking about any vote or how the SDP would vote or anyone in the coalition. Reply to the replica Branko Vukksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28315	I wasn't talking, but I know, I guess I'm sorry. What my colleague Mirela Holly said to me doesn't bother me. This is the first time parliamentaryism has happened in the Croatian Parliament. And the fact that they disagree why would they agree on everything? They first showed that they still have some kind of horn, thank God. I don't think it's a fight, but a colleague has one opinion, she has similar opinions to us because she belongs to the opposition doesn't belong where, by vocality, I don't think the club belongs exactly where it belongs. The thing is, this law is passed in order to abolish the monopoly of large energy systems. But I think that intention is the last thing in everything that's being prepared. Just remember how INA was sold, how some other big strategic companies were sold and whenever it was said to be sold below the price and why it was sold it had to be sold. How did the banks sell out? All these assurances that we will now hear during today, either with the prime minister or with any government member, will pass, but unfortunately HEP will start to privatise.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28316	Replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28317	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, you started your discussion with a reminder of history, and you ended it with a look in the future if I remembered correctly. And here's this bill of law is proof of the truthfulness of that saying that stupid history unfortunately repeats and learns from it. I'm not generalizing, and I'm not insulting anyone, but I'm talking about the law now. So we learned nothing from the mistakes that we had in not so long ago when it came to INA and when it came to banks and when it came to Croatian telecommunications about everything and already very well-known. Lawmakers are constantly called on to discuss how this is necessary in order to comply with EU legislation. We are on the verge of entry, I agree that the laws should be harmonised, but we do not have the right to make suicide decisions that destroy and harm Croatian citizens. We are not entering the EU to sell out what little is left but to benefit from the EU, not the EU benefits from Croatia, but Croatia from the EU. That was the main intention of all those who advocated Croatia's entry into the EU. And when it comes to the protection they are always called upon to protect Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens are ordering stop protecting us for God's sake because your protection to Croatian citizens is becoming harder and harder every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28318	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28319	Yes, dear colleague Buric, we agree to repeat history. Unfortunately, collectively we repeat, in fact some of us repeat and collectively suffer because of this repetition. We're repeating the sale history. Nothing important has changed, no matter who's in power. Let's say when they asked the Minister of Economy of Mr. Vrdoljak to explain the essence of the Strategic Investments Act, the draft of the Strategic Investments Act was not a single part of that law, nor did he dispute that he did not write anything but justified everything by employment. It means something sacred, which is Croatian we'll sell out so we can hire. We know it's a lie. Every company that's sold to a private owner, I'm not only talking about a foreign owner but the private owner has started layoffs, as will start layoffs like layoffs in banks, as will start when we make concessions in highways. HEP that has billions of profits is the most people fired. This country has never protected its citizens, not protected its workers, but even more so, the economy minister who should also care for them is pushing workers into the slave system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28320	Igor Radjenović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28321	Thank you, Madam Vice President. And Mr. Vuksic put out a lot of things, and it bothered me, and that's when I picked up the replica primarily. What he said to Mr. Vrdoljak and about his statement yesterday. Mr. Vrdoljak is unfortunately not here, and I think you've put a lot of offensive words and verbs in his mouth, which he didn't really say. I wrote down that he called workers drones and leeches. You have absolutely cast out the meaning of his amendment and unwarrantedly thrown a mockery into this assembly. In fact, he spoke to Croatian businessmen saying that he thanked them for paying salaries and the growth of the Croatian economy is the only way of increasing the social standard that we all so quickly advocate and indeed only the only Croatian economy that fills the budgets from which you and I and all of us here in the assembly, and many other people are getting paid by colleagues Vuksic so that I really don't know why you exaggerated that statement so much. It is unwarranted that you too, and many others also see from this bill you read some dark privatisation or sale. This law does not say that, therefore, there is no such thing in this law, it is a law similar to the laws of the third energy package and a similar law exists in all the countries of the European Union. There will be no privatisation of the transfer in any form while Kukuriku coalition, SDP and HNS stand in power, that is a hundred times said in this assembly and on committees and in media titles, etc. So the transfer won't be privatized ever and anywhere, that's something that has to stay. And allow me more, the time is almost over, it's less than two minutes to replicate, and I don't really feel like it's any more harsh criticism of HEP and other public enterprises, but now HEP here is about arrogant, naughty people who have been working towards citizenship for decades, regardless of government, and on the other hand, it's against privatisation and any other model or part that could change that horrible and arrogant behavior...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28322	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28323	I'm asking you to listen to what I'm saying, I didn't say Mr. Vrdoljak called the leech workers, he treats them like that. Mr. Vrdoljak said thank you for paying you and feeding your employees. Slaves, only in the slave system did slave owners feed their, I guess, laborers earn their wages, I guess they're in a different relationship. The second thing, you're completely wrong, the data's denying you, 11 billion kunas have been paid by workers in various government registers while employers have paid seven billion out of profits. Even your salary is not given by employers but by workers and employers. Therefore, everything Mr. Vrdoljak said does not serve the government or the Kukuriku coalition in honor of the Croatian working class.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28324	Replica, Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28325	Well, here's the thing, really, like my colleague Rajedinovic said, two minutes is too short to replicate everything that my colleague Vuksic said. I'd just maybe do two things. You've talked a lot about market liberalisation. We have decided to liberalise the market at the moment when we decided on a European Union and you voted here in this House to join the European Union. When we enter the European Union we can't choose this would, this wouldn't, it all enters the European Union package. We've committed ourselves to taking over this energy package and we've committed ourselves to passing this law and we're doing it now. And the other part, you mentioned the unions a lot. So as far as I'm concerned, the unions have just made a proposal in HEP to go to the ITO system just taught by the experience that happened with the application of the TSO system in INA. Their proposal to the HEP administration was to go right with this system. So if you're already taking the right to speak on behalf of the union, then just ask the unions in HEP what their opinion should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28326	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28327	Dear colleagues, I have not spoken on behalf of the union, nor am I authorized, nor have I contacted them. I know what the media unions are, I know from their records what they stood for, and I didn't deny it, I even told you that in some other countries they took that system. You weren't listening. It only hurts to hear the last names of the HNS ministers and that you should justify them. The second thing, it was said earlier that the transfer will not be privatised, so these other three segments of HEP will be privatised and we get that confirmation now. It is a lie to accept everything the European Union is looking for. It's not true, look at how many zero feet you strangled us with that there's no zero food anywhere. There are zero food rates in several countries. Our negotiators, and this goes to HDZ's expense, have been badly negotiated. So it's not what you say. Listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28328	And Mirela Holly, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28329	Dear colleague, this is how I disagree with you that liberalisation is something negative and I would remind you of the situation in the telecom market before the liberalisation of the telecom market took place. Today we have several telecom operators and I think that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are much more satisfied today with being able to choose from different service providers and that this ultimately led to the cost of services and I am sure that it will be similar with the electricity market. It is also similar with taxi services in Zagreb and other cities in the Republic of Croatia. And I'd like to warn you one more thing, namely you were talking about Germany as the country that implemented the ITO model. Germany has four operators, it has a mix, it has an ITO and a TSO model, so when you talk about such things, you need to be precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28330	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28331	Now I'm supposed to start with history, I'm often with my colleague Milosevic, the history of the free market, but I won't, it would take too long. Liberalisation does not mean anything in the Croatian way, either positively or negatively, all that has been liberalised so far in any way. And while you're talking about liberalisation, if you take the world context, it's never been more profitable in this crisis and it's never been kidnapped by fewer people and it's never been harder for workers to live in, not only Croatia than it is today. So don't do that liberalisation, so now it's liberal, so that's good. Nothing is good until we see the essence of it and nothing else, the electricity will accumulate because the government members themselves said that the price of electricity was a social measure and that there will be no more social measures, so the electricity is lower than in the European Union in most countries, the electricity will accumulate. And that there's going to be a big market and there's going to be a 10th, 20 electricity suppliers that are going to lower the price, I certainly don't believe that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28332	Thank you. We're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28333	Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. Well, first of all, on behalf of my club, I'd actually protest at all over the fact that we're going to an emergency procedure with a law like this. It's really a shame they said the predecessors of the law was really hard, extensive. One of the rarest whole laws that changes something serious in society, and we don't really have a chance in two readings to really try to affect its possible changes, repairs, changes, and it's just going to be this debate this afternoon and it's going to be that. And the law, unfortunately, as it is, will actually leave the long-term consequences for the entire energy sector, but also specifically for the standard of citizens. The second is also this methodology by which we actually slave to the agenda, and the agenda is not in service of our work, we actually feel that it makes our work more difficult because we can't start at 16:30 with this point of the agenda, I think it's one of these laws, and then the Mining Act, and then the Defense Act, the Service Act, and it has to be done. Well, I guess nothing has to be done. Well, I guess if the debate if there's no MPs, if the debate really isn't content, then I think what's the point of the debate. Then let's skip. Also, counterpart Vinkovic today is quite vehement in the debates. It's his birthday today, so please forgive him. Maybe that's one of the reasons he's a little more alive than usual. Happy birthday to him! I'm sorry to use this occasion. Furthermore, I don't know how many deputy ministers are concentrated. I hope it's concentrated enough, given that the big one's being written to go to a new job. I guess he'll be doing this job by the end of the day. There may also be a chance by Friday if he hears some smart proposal on behalf of the government to bring in another amendment, perhaps on this one already as a draft law. But the fact of the facts. So, the Republic of Croatia about imports about 40% of electricity at the moment. It's about 60% of its yield, or it's made from its own sources. The price of kilowatt electricity in the Republic of Croatia today, with all these purchases we have, is still relatively cheap and is among the cheaper in space among the E28 countries. Also about 20% of electricity is produced from renewable sources if we take into account hydrothermia as renewable sources today, i.e. solar and wind power plants somewhere below one, one and a half percent there. In fact, the foundation of electricity production in the Republic of Croatia is the hydro power plant, the thermal power plant Krško. When it comes to these renewable wind sources or solar power plants, the fact is that they have a whole series of weaknesses, and one of the biggest production prices is certainly, but also that all these components for wind power plants or solar power plants, all forms, all the capacities are actually not produced in the Republic of Croatia. The whole no hau, the whole technology and everything that it does actually comes from abroad, and we inciting that industry actually directly encourage production in those countries where this whole technology and all these products come from. We are not the first to encounter this situation through this legislative proposal among the new EU members. I recently had a chance to meet with representatives from the Czech Republic. And so we talked to them a few months ago and, in fact, to the Czech Republic, one of the more serious problems they have and the topic they're talking about is that the Czech Republic encountered a similar problem with these solar panels because, as a country in a wave of enthusiasm towards the EU, they so favoured setting up solar collectors that today it became almost dominant individual power sources. But that's why electricity prices are so high that actually citizens can't take it anymore. On the other hand, the technology that has been adopted is hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros, in fact imported from those developed EU countries, so that citizens, for example, of the Czech Republic, have prepared and double-paid Croatian citizens for the price of their ecologically price, I would say naivety under one through the price that they have actually funded the production of some other countries, and two of which pay the price of very, very expensive electricity in the country of origin. Croatia's electricity or HEP, which today has 14 dependent companies in 100 percent and 3 dependent companies with 50 percent LNG, Plomin and Krško nuclear power plant. At this point, it is likely that, after the electricity industry, France is the only real electricity company in Europe that has full capacity from production itself to surrender. So, all of the more or less other energy companies are this big broken, fragmented. Some of them are in big trouble all over Europe. And it stays, so after we succeed and we will succeed safely because we are so successful at everything and we were in this to ruin our HEP. There will remain the French electricity industry as Europe's only real electricity industry. Now let me try to make a brief statement of objections to this bill although they almost make no sense because it's there. He, we don't have two readings. Who's going to be giving, putting amendments to this proposal? But here's to try to sort out a part of the objection to the bill itself. Therefore, when it comes to Article 5 and the interests of the Republic of Croatia in Article 7(7), it is stated that electricity facilities on the regulated electricity market or from imports buy electricity. Therefore, both on the market or on imports, the priority is to produce electricity from renewable sources or cogeneration. So does this mean that the interest of the Republic of Croatia to import electricity and that this electricity from renewable sources will take precedence over electricity produced from some Croatian thermal power plant? And at what price will that electricity be bought? It shall also be referred to in Article 10 as an interest of the Republic of Croatia. Imports of electricity from renewable sources or cogeneration and that this is a priority, i.e. the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in Article 6 concerning public services, it is stated that energy operators will provide a proposal for the amount of tariff items according to regulated conditions. But it doesn't specify what the regulated conditions are. It is also stated in Article 10 where electricity production is concerned that a legal or natural person will carry out the activity of electricity production as an exception and without authorisation to carry out activities for some smaller production entities up to one megawatt. So there is some exception that someone will meet the requirements and work without permission. I wonder who's gonna give him a solution to that kind of work? And then when it comes to the transmission of electricity, it's the fourth section, for example Article 14e, we are now coming here, so today we have a HEP transmission operator that separates itself into some kind of independent, independent legal person outside the structure of this HEP, and then we get independent transmission operators and independent transmission operators with certain duties that are very vague, which are also, and then in Article 19(4), the independent transmission operator delivers here constantly states that HERA, although nowhere in the text, it is not stated that this agency is actually HERA from the beginning to the end, but writes the permanent HERA agency. That the HERA will give its consent to all various commercial and financial contracts to that independent operator within 4 weeks. So, he's going to have to deliver to her all the possible contracts he makes and HERA's going to give him consent within 4 weeks, and if HERA doesn't give him consent or doesn't answer within 4 weeks, he'll be deemed to be silently consenting. This is the case with Article 19(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So we're coming up with the idea of so-called. the silent consent of the operator. In what way will an independent operator prove in the case of a problem or some court dispute over certain contracts that the HERA has not agreed to? Is this actually an anticipating the fact that HERA today has no capacity at all to actually begin objectively monitoring this business of that independent operator? Furthermore, when it comes to Article 25, for example, there are some 10-year plans for the development of a transmission network that is an operator of the transmission system, and every year the transmission system operator will re-submit the HERA's 10-year transmission network development plan, and this plan will harmonize with the investment plans of the grids in the environment. The question is, how will our operator even know what investment plans are in the environment? It might be more logical to call for some interstate contracts or commitments with operators in the environment, not their plans, so we'll do our plans first as if they're going to reveal their plans to us whether they're in the first place, or whether they owe us anything. Isn't it logical that we make plans if we look at countries in the environment according to some international obligations, contracts and similar documents with operators in the environment? Furthermore, in Article 26, when it comes to the connection of a new power plant to a transmission network, the transmission system operator, regardless of the network limitations and certain parts, to asphyxiation, to the existing network capacity, therefore states that the transmission system operator cannot refuse to connect the new power plant regardless of the state of the network, limitations or state of capacity. Therefore, this is Article 26(2) and (3). So, which means that he can't refuse it if the network's capacity, so I guess whoever's operating the power plant, the power plant, the hydropower plant, some of the previous ones get some consent, and it's determined that the network has the capacity to download, not that someone builds the power plant and the operator doesn't have the capacity, but he's obliged to take over the power generation from whoever's going to produce that power. What does that mean? So that simply means that the electricity will start to produce everyone in various ownership structures, and the operator will have to take over whatever state of that power. He won't be able to say no. So that's Article 26. In the case of Article 27, direct waterways also referred to in paragraph 4, one rather strange claim or some thesis as to how the Agency, or HERA, may issue prior consent to the construction of direct water if access to the network has previously been refused or a dispute settlement procedure has been initiated with the Agency. Should I not extend this dispute settlement procedure to the agency whether HERA is in charge of dispute settlement procedures? I don't think HERA is in charge of dispute resolution proceedings, of the water dispute proceedings, and HERA is in charge of appeals. Let's see what happens next. Now, the separation also, the separation of the distribution system operator from the vertically integrated operator, and then everyone will have to hide that they were once in HEP and then closed distribution systems. So we start by allowing new closed distribution systems not to supply categories of customers but to some defined other end-users, but I'll say that from a few closed operators of distribution systems to open ones there's only a difference in one word, and then we have competition among distributors. As far as Article 45 is concerned. That's the whole point of electricity trade. The electricity trade in this whole legislation deals with only one article with the whole concept of electricity trade. This concept was to be elaborated significantly through several articles and given that time was running out. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Paragraph 7 therefore adds new items of what the supplier charged to citizens. Therefore, the compensation for the promotion of the production of renewable sources is part of the price freely spoken, part of the price to be regulated even after the other duties. So no more electricity billing towards consumption than a whole series of fees and items that actually work there. Here's a short time. Mostly determined not to call if it's possible for two readings and probably not anymore, but I don't think this is going to be good at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28334	Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28335	Dear colleague, I'm today... but extremely tolerant in his appearances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm 47 years old today even though a lot of people give me less. But not wanting to insult the kids who might be watching the Parliament transfer on that Max TV. I'm not a child, and I stopped believing in Santa for a long time. This is one law and we have heard today that citizens are far more satisfied with telecommunications services than they were before. Maybe they're satisfied because they have nothing left and they've paid for that network participation, building a network in the Bell Phone Action, and this action will be called obviously no Electric. I don't know how else I would call it this delegation of Croatian citizens, from this one public institution from a public company owned by the Republic of Croatia. And it's a law that definitely goes into the privatisation of HEP and leads to privatisation and sale of HEP. I ask the second question, you see what happens when two coalition partners disagree. What happens when this Forest Act happens, then the HNS will attack the SDP because they are in the woods and while the HNS are in the electricity industry, in agriculture is SDP, etc. So that's how we've deployed ourselves, and then probably a colleague will respond to my colleague Mireli the same way she talked about this law today, and you're right, this isn't supposed to go into two readings, and we're not in the EU that's asking us to, we have enough time to make a good law. One more sentence and I'm done. Here I am taking this opportunity to invite you to a drink and I personally feel sorry for the deputy minister who, as far as I know, is not a member of any party and is looking at the wonder what's going on at the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28336	Thank you very much. And imagine how tolerance I am and you're replicating your club and you're talking about relations within the coalition. But so be it. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28337	Though you're more playful maybe today than... I don't care about their relationship in the coalition at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I honestly don't care what their relations are, all I care about is the interest of Croatian citizens and the Croatian state, and that's all I care about, I want to know about it. But when it comes to relationships, also in Article 65. This law has given the Ministry of Social Welfare the task and I don't know if they and Minister Opačić have communicated on how social care centres should drive away various jobs that work today and which are not essential activities. In this law, they provide it with the task of issuing solutions to the Ministry of Social Care, i.e. sending letters to both the customer and the distribution system operator and the electricity supplier, and to those consumers who will be released according to the social censorship. So these are tens and tens of thousands of new solutions that the social care centres will issue and the intensity is I think the minister has said about it by Opačić that they would like to free the Centre for Social Care from dealing with what is not their primary activity. And here, they're easy, I don't know if they've ever had a general relationship and figured out what they've actually done to each other. Maybe it'd be good if they tried to apply it. And as far as relations in coalitions are concerned, any one of theirs will easily be ours only to deal with national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28338	Replica Dinko keg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28339	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So Đurovic has warned several times and ended his debate with a very important message, do not crash needlessly, there is no reason for such an important law to be passed in an urgent procedure because it is seen but also in discussions within the ruling coalition of what differences are in attitudes. As this law is written in haste, but not only in haste but it has been written in such a way that it poses great dangers to Croatian national interests, which was spoken of by fellow Djurovic. So listen to the appeal that's coming. Such a debate, such a law not only should not have been, was not necessary to bring it by emergency procedure, but there is no logic at all that we and in the negotiation process are here what we have discussed that when it comes to energy, and this was done by the negotiating team of the Republic of Croatia, we have committed that, as still not a full member in the field of energy, we must act as a full member. Well, none of the EU members did so during their negotiating process. It's a wetlands of the Republic of Croatia. And for what is happening today, the responsibility of the former government that led the negotiations. Therefore, once again, counterpart Djurovic sent a good message, such important laws which pose a risk to Croatian national interests are not brought back to application. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28340	Please, fellow time has moved away, so take care of the weather. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28341	That's exactly what we changes one, two articles in some laws have in two readings. The topics that social and budgetary matters mean very little or almost nothing at all are really one serious thing about something first one of the biggest companies in the Republic of Croatia, another company that has one of the biggest traffic in the Republic of Croatia, the third one about supplying strategic resources to citizens, which is el. energy. So it's really a matter of national interest for the Republic of Croatia. And the fourth about something that citizens can't get around, so the electricity of citizens is something that is the energy that all citizens use, and it's the interest of citizens to have permanent supplies, to have quality supplies and to make the price as favourable and fourth to stop happening what's going on in the last months and years in this coordination process that citizens are increasingly paying less and less spent energy and that more and more through the energy price they pay any forms of strange fees for some strange profits, not actually what they've spent. So this bill also foresees paying fees for this, for that and for that, and at least dealing with the specifically supplied electricity. Kilowatt hour, we no longer pay for the kilowatt hour or pay for the cubic gas or the cubic water as citizens as consumers, we pay for everything and everything but that. And of course the ducks have grown. There's been a big blur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28342	And Mladen Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28343	Thank you very much. I thought I'd start with something else, but just so I don't run out of time, I'll repeat what most speakers have said here, and I don't think it's ever enough to repeat that. In an emergency procedure put this law which defines one of the essential national interests. I don't see another expression but if I didn't know this was a shame, this is really a direct damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this in the way of the observation and conduct of the session, in a way that at 9.30 we started not knowing what a couple of hours we had one law, now we're going to be with the other. And it goes beyond that law which is of great importance to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for national interest. Put it all in one basket. The defense law and the armed forces are going beyond that, and all of this needs to be done today. Well, that's a real exaggeration, and no one can tell me don't replicate. And why we're here instead of talking. So that's not the way. You mentioned importing renewable energy and asked a likely hypothetical question, where the interest of the Republic of Croatia is. There is no interest in the Republic of Croatia. Remember when the prime minister was visiting Germany that, I won't name it, in one of the media it was announced that he had won pucks there, that why we haven't already privatised HEP and left him. Apparently there was some information left to the Germans. Therefore, there is no interest in the Republic of Croatia, so don't be fooled. As for compliance with the EU, we had the Tax Act on Road Vehicles the other day. At that time, we were told to coordinate with the EU, there are 27 different models in the EU. What kind of synchronization? With what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28344	Thank you. No one told you not to replicate, but to take care of two minutes of how long the replica lasts. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28345	Yeah, well, once again what you said, I can really express the wonders of whether every single one of these few MPs who tried to read this bill saw how hard and complicated it really is and that they really need a lot of work and that they need to be consulted to even understand this problem. On the other hand, it is written to a large extent that someone has said mechanically, copying only the provisions of that model that has been taken over and certainly have it now in this proposal and if it is taken as a concept of such a whole series of errors that we will then, in time, have to remove one by one through some kind of amendments and addition of the law. But the point is that enough time should be allowed for the public to be interested and MPs to talk enough about whether this is something like this is something that affects the standard of Croatian citizens, affects the question of these strategic positions of the Republic of Croatia in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28346	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Đuro Popioč.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28347	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Madam colleagues, deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, at first I have to say that with the most part of my colleague Holly's exposure, I agree. But of course I won't agree to one thing, unlike her, I and the HDZ Club will not support this law. On the contrary, the law should be withdrawn from the procedure and not because the professional services of the Ministry of Economy did not do their job well, but because the Croatian government did not do its job, or because the government has no political courage to do what it has to do, which is to make a point of what it intends to do with HEP. In such circumstances, the Ministry of Economy proposes a highly complicated, general and unclear law. The obligations of the Republic of Croatia are clear, to establish real liberalisation and development of the electricity market in line with the first, second and now with the third energy package of the European Union. To simplify, it is a requirement to separate electricity transmission activities from electricity production and supply activities, as well as the separation and functioning of distribution system operators. I'll also add that they need to split up. To remind you, today all or almost all activities in the electricity market are concentrated in the HEP or HEP group. HEP Group deals with the production, transmission and distribution of electricity. HEP group is organised in the form of concerts as a group of related companies. HEP production produces electricity in 26 HE, 4 TE and 3 TE heat, Krško nuclear power plant and several related companies in neighbouring countries. In 2011, 10000 gigawatt hours of electricity were produced, imported 14000 and exported 6300. I'm saying this for the sake of truth because we often listened to the former first vice president actually when he spoke false figures about importing electricity into Croatia. The HEP transmission system operator shall perform a power transmission service. The transmission of electricity is carried out by a network of different voltage levels. The transfer is supported by 5 trafostations of 400 kilovolts, 6 trafostations 220 kilovolts, 118 trafostations 110 kilovolts and a network of high voltage power lines totaling 7437 km. It's a portable infrastructure that everyone here is so happy and gallantly discussing. The HEP distribution system operator shall be responsible for the supply of electricity to the final buyer. The distribution infrastructure consists of networks of 24000 different trafostations and 140000 km of water of different voltage levels. We talk about this infrastructure when we talk about distribution. There are more than 2.3 million customers in the Republic of Croatia. HEP distribution system operator is responsible for the delivery of tariff customers, while HEP supply d.o.o. is present in the supply of privileged customers on the market. with, of course, negligible competition that has emerged on the market. Among the objectives that are to be achieved in the bill, it is said that conditions will be created for secure and quality supply of electricity, market development, competitiveness of electricity prices. Indeed, the development of the market should be aimed at and the competitiveness of prices and the choice option by consumers, but this law does not guarantee that this will happen as it is written. Due to the lack of a political decision by the Croatian government, what it intends to do with HEP, such a significant newspaper in the organisation, organisation and functioning of the electricity sector from the position of energy operators and customers and competent institutions are left to the reality of the independent decision of today's monopoly, HEP to regulate relations on the electricity market. In doing so, I do not necessarily think that this must be bad, but while at the level of the debate on the law, the public can be informed of what is intended to do with this key infrastructure resource when this law is once adopted, the development of the further fate of HEP will take place outside the public eye. We expect the Croatian government to clearly and precisely determine by which model of possible and theoretically processed in this law today's HEP group will be transformed, which parts of the infrastructure will go into transfer, who will own the transfer infrastructure, HEP or state. It's extremely important and it's not the same anyway. Who is the infrastructure in distribution, which will then be, for example, what happens with production, today's production in HEP. It seems that the government's real intention is to seal the fate of HEP out of parliament and public debates in silence, and I don't want to calculate here in which direction it can go and where it can end. The basic requirement of Directive 2009/72 EC is to separate the transmission and distribution activities from the electricity production and supply activities, and legislative regulation and quality of implementation are the basic preconditions for the achievement and objectives of this Directive, which is primarily the development of the market. How does this goal come to be achieved by this government? So that the proposed law which essentially bothers theoretically to process all possible variations of the organisation and functioning of actors on the energy market, and in this problem is involved in all possible combinations of relationships between various system operators, independent system operators, transmission network owner and then the national transmission network owner and then further transmission system operator, distribution system operator etc., etc., and all of this puts into the context of some imaginary vertical vertical integrated system. A good part of the law is working hard and defining the concept of independence and there is a serious problem here, and it is precisely the impossible mission that has been put before the professional people who wrote this law. Because of the fact that they did not know what the political decision of the Croatian government was, but here I must note that I am surprised that some MPs in this assembly know what the decision of the Croatian government is. They're talking about one model, and it doesn't say anything in the law, which should therefore be applied in the reorganization of HEP, they had to burden the sea of unnecessary combinations that could happen or should be prevented from happening. And this law therefore makes it complicated, incomprehensible, and ultimately unimplementable. This is what an article looks like when a person who has been assigned to write a law does not know the position of the employer, so it assumes some development of Article 36. I quote: "If the distribution system operator is part of a vertical integrated system", if "it must be independent of other activities which do not relate to distribution at least in terms of its legal form and decision-making. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Ministry or agencies older, make a decision on the mandatory ownership of the basic assets of the distribution system operator from a vertically integrated entity, provided that, on the basis of an implementing research into the functioning of the electricity market and in Article 57 of this Act, it determines that the connection of the distribution system operator with a vertically integrated entity prevents market development and ensures a privileged position to a vertically integrated entity or part thereof." This is the first paragraph of that article. There are another seven, eight in just that one article. So, on the basis of these formulations, which this law is full of, and at all, agree any development of the electricity market. Which is why the Croatian government has not said clearly and loudly what it will do with HEP, defined the model of organisation by which HEP should be transformed and then left to the profession to write a normal, understandable and enforceable law which will be the basis for the development of the market, which is ultimately both the goal and the obligation and our wish in the end. But the Croatian government is running away from that responsibility. The law formally fulfils its obligations to the EU. It really needs to be congratulated, and it leaves problems to be solved on their own. But that's how this government deals with all the other key issues in this society, so that's why we're here where we are. The catastrophic economic situation, the decline in GDP of minus 2%, record unemployment, 373000, the lack of investment, 800 million kunas of public enterprises compared to 2011, the decline in industrial production in 12 months, minus 5.6% compared to 2011. And in the end, I may be the saddestly threatened date of entry into the only full membership of the European Union. We're wondering if there's anything else that can be broken. However, since the law must say something that will happen with HEP, the solution has been found in the transitional and final provisions of Article 76. HEP d.d. which was the owner of the transmission system on 3 September 2009 shall be obliged to apply one of the models of separation of transmission system operators in accordance with the provisions of Articles 14 to 24 of this Act. That was the first attitude. There are 11 other items, a warrant that HEP still has to do. And what is this? Is one of the most important issues of the state's energy system left to one company, even if it was HEP. So what is the behaviour of the Croatian government when one of the key issues of the EU's energy future does not know how to regulate relations on the electricity market. 7 and a half thousand kilometres of high voltage power lines, 140 transformers, 24000 distribution transformers and 140000km of power lines were built over the decades by the Croatian people and the Croatian economy, paying no small bills sent by the Croatian electricity industry. I call on the Croatian government to propose to this Parliament a model for further management of this national resource, to show what will happen with the resources of production owned by HEP, to tell this House and the people what the government's strategy is for HEP. So let the Croatian government also take responsibility for the fate of HEP as a company, with a clear public view. It's scandalous to leave it to one company to decide on the fate of a infrastructure that can be formally said to be owned by it. But let me repeat, this is the citizens' infrastructure of Croatian citizens' money. Over the decades, they have the right to know what will happen to that infrastructure. HEP as a company can't have a monopoly on it. But of course, it wasn't HEP I asked to be found in that situation, nor did the people who wrote this law themselves produce this situation. The government's inability to make unequivocal and clear decisions leads to complete uncertainty in the development of the electricity market, the fate of HEP and the position of Croatia in the common European energy market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28348	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28349	Dear colleague, I am very pleased that you said that the law is good in technical terms and that you commended the professional services. Because it is essentially the professional services of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Economy which has prepared the law to be clear, not to open access to the electricity market in the EU, except of course harmonisation and also protects consumers from being able to obtain or not decide where to obtain electricity or electricity. We say nice electricity in Dalmatia. In this way, this law ensures both the safety of citizens and the security of the price, the safety that we do not lose in HEP. Also, with its projects, investment in Croatia's electricity industry, this government will ensure that Croatia's electricity not only can be produced for domestic needs, but it will be competitive on the European market, and all of this will actually result in electricity prices finally starting and falling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28350	Next line, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28351	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my fellow Drinker, this reminds me incredibly of the preparation for HT privatisation. Except someone remembered later, so they privatized the HT control package, and that's the key to the whole story, and then it went on its own. But it's very interesting that there's never been a problem of HT infrastructure solved. So also here the government has not set up an energy strategy, the government has not solved the problem of ownership relations in a number of energy networks that have been working on local self-government units, local companies have been working somewhere, for example in the road construction of that famous trafo station that has been built far more capacity than it needs for highways to be used by the local economy. So everything is brought to a small door, to the neck, to the nose, and there is no need to complain there are some articles that are understandable, incomprehensible. Some things are sometimes difficult to understand, but what needs to be asked is Croatia, are Croatian citizens ready to liberalise the market? Do we have a social map in this country that we can help those who can't pay the electricity market price? And that's the key question. Because those who have them don't care who they pay the bill to. But the problem is for these 370,000 unemployed, the problem is for those who have a salary below 3,000 kuna that they will pay the bills. Because look, colleagues and colleagues, HEP right now has about a billion and five hundred unpaid bills. Let's get into the structure who didn't pay those bills. Let's first clear up what we have, let's set a strategy and then we can talk about the Electricity Market Act. Until we do that law, it just doesn't make sense. We can rely on EU directives as much as we want, but the EU directives do not tang Croatian citizens and the Croatian social picture. And that's the key to everything. And I think that about that, colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you one more sentence, not on the left or on the right, we shouldn't separate because it's just our everyday life, our truth that we don't have to run from.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28352	Thank you very much. Replication response, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28353	Well, here's my colleague Schuker, so I said it would be a lot simpler if there was a year and a few days and that the government had really worked out and definitely solved the question of what would happen to HEP and we knew that we had to do it if we wanted to, of course, follow everything we've already defined, and these are all the things that are related to the EU, and they're good at the end of the day, and they're good for us too. That's why this law is extremely difficult. Here's to repeat, he was, of course, well written under such circumstances because he had to predict all possible assumptions and variants of how it would happen. If we also knew that we had the opportunity to talk clearly over the past year about what will happen to production, which will be with the transfer which is essentially the basic infrastructure and the fundamental value of the Croatian state, I am not talking on purpose about Croatia's electricity economy, so it is the transfer that must ensure both energy independence and energy security and ultimately the possibility of other suppliers happening on that market, safer, more quality perhaps even cheaper. However, here we also continue to enter into one uncertainty as to who and who and what mechanisms will ultimately make the final decision, and this is the irrefutable transformation of HEP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28354	And the last replica of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28355	Well, it's clear to me that this reminds you of privatisation because that's how you ended up privatizing INA and gave our management rights to the Hungarian MOL. Based on precisely this HDZ lesson, this government is going on a model that the HEP will remain in Croatian hands. Secondly, when we talk about HEP, we don't talk about a company there, it's a state-owned company. The company in which the government participates, manages, controls, appoints members of the Supervisory Board, administration, the Assembly. Therefore, the state is very much in charge of HEP. And thirdly, what perhaps confuses me most in this debate today is the fact that all these processes were due to begin in 2009. So you've had all the time in this world to bring a strategy, to restructure HEP, to do all this that you're talking about right now. You had all the time. Why didn't you do it? Only you know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28356	Replication response, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28357	Well, actually, I don't know how you guys know how HEP's gonna transform. Where does it say in the law? You obviously have some information that you won't and now you share with us but partly. So you know that HEP will be transformed by that model. ... Okay, but even if that's the way it is, let's seriously talk about it now, if it isn't more of a danger then it's how colleagues and colleagues who wrote the law are part of a vertically integrated system so sometimes, here's this HERA that this fear is clearly spreading to the Parliament decided to privatise HEP and then it's also part of the transfer that someone is going to privatize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And what, then, where are we? I think so that I agree with that lot of colleagues who said maybe, if we have time or no time, but if there was a little more space and time to discuss this law, it would probably, to all of us, be in the interest of bringing it, it must finally be brought to an end. And the fact that, not to forget, you said we had time for two years, so you know that in two years, we have done most of the work with the conclusion of negotiations for the EU and we have had no problem closing these issues, despite the fact that we have not completed this process completely, of course. But this process is over, so let me remind you in 2011 at 6 a.m. with here's the ending and the signing of the contract. And I just hope that this is what you're doing that job is not going to be in vain and that it doesn't all go to waste and that your mistake and what you haven't done this year and we don't enter the EU when it's scheduled.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28358	We move to an individual debate, the first Damir Kajin to be gone and followed by Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28359	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's my turn. Yeah, we're already on the tenth hour of today's debate, we're on the second item of the agenda, so considering that there are three more important laws behind us, I'm going to try to sublime my own debate as much as possible. This law obviously needs to be passed in order to harmonise. It's important, it's good, I agree with my friend Poppie that it wasn't easy to write, but that given the task he's been given, it's technically done, and I don't agree with some colleagues who often say things like we don't have to take over. A simple European perspective, the EU so specifically this energy package is simply part of the package that we have taken over, and we can't act like in the service itself and say this, we're not going to do this, we're going to do this that way. We simply have to respect the directives, on this road all the shortcomings and advantages of the short term, and we trust in the long term all the advantages of EU accession, we simply have to respect that perspective. Two 2009 directives have been said. We had and promised in those negotiations that by March 2011. To draft this law by listening to a fellow drinker who speaks on behalf of the HDZ club saying he agrees with Mrs Holly, a representative of the SDP Club in most of the debate. And I have to agree with him in most of the debate just don't know why I'm doing it so well in the biggest part of my debate he's said well, why it's really not implemented so far and why all the hard decisions as he called them haven't been made. So there's a lot of good things in this law, so it's developed primarily, secure and quality supply, it's... in this package, a more developed electricity market that will result in liberalisation but also more competitive prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is all of course building more efficient production, more efficient use and in some way customer protection. The energy after all of this will have its price. This price will be lower we assume that by liberalising it comes to a lower price of energy production, so of course the competition is bearing on that side a higher quality price of production and whether Croatian citizens will have a higher or lower price and the Croatian economy can discuss it. In any case, what will ultimately be lower, now whether they pay it directly through their price or pay it indirectly through some other taxes, is a question that we must honestly give an answer to. The easiest way to say populist is to raise the price. The question of what and how to do better by me is far cleaner, simpler, better approach so that the goods now I speak generally have a price, that it is realistically determined and then of course by social measures, of course we protect everything that is impossible. Of course, the economy that can take what is possible through horizontal support. Regardless of this difficult rhetoric and the only serious and most important issue of this law is actually this model question. So do you... Is that an I.O. model, whether this third same model, we gave up on it as far as I can see, at least in our discussions, even though the law predicted all three and installed all three possible all three models. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here I join the debates of colleagues who said that this was not the happiest solution and that it would be that this strategic decision was made before probably and certainly and the writers of this law would be much, much easier for us to present this law and then it would be far clearer. You'd be more transparent and then maybe these heavy verbs we heard in the opening, I don't know if they'd be continued, there's even a little more discussion, actually all those skeptics would break down. So that decision should be made, one or the other model, obviously according to everything I'm told on the Committee on Economy, the government is thinking closer to the I TO model, but no matter what they choose, all mechanisms are in the hands of the Croatian Government. So if we choose I to model and this company so as company d.o.o. as a company of its kind within the HEP group has its own assembly, has its own supervisory board having detailed rules in which they cannot be tied but through this company is implemented the politics of the Croatian Government. What is most important and what can also be an appeal from these benches is that in this area, but also in other areas in public enterprises, and it is certainly more than necessary for the processes to be accelerated, that these extensive restructurings and processes that are necessary, which are written, in our regulations, laws and directives, be implemented more quickly and efficiently. That's what we need and what we want because 2015. It is close when this common energy market comes in so that, if we want to, and I agree with what my colleague Shucker said, we do not have to divide to the left and to the right of the political aspect if we want to not welcome this situation in other areas too unprepared it is necessary to add gas to that, to speed up these processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28360	Thank you. The line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28361	Thank you very much. At first, you said right away that the adoption of this law had to be done, and you asked such a question why the former government hadn't done it, it had time, it didn't occur to me to defend them, to be clear here, but then it also asked itself why this government hasn't been in these years, so if nothing else had had had an emergency procedure. Even now, I think there's still room for it not to be an emergency procedure because it's an extremely important question and it's not good to be like this. I think after all, the wrong message is being sent. And you mentioned one more thing, there is no take or leave in EU regulations. However, we have already made sure many times that some of the things presented to us are coming from the EU and we have to accept as such, there is no debate. There's no taking there no arguing but the system take it or leave it. Well, among other things, a few days ago, we had just mentioned the Law on Road Vehicle Tax where the same adjustment to EU regulations was, and then we heard that there is no single regulation in Europe, but there are several different models. But I'm also going to tell you, let's just say that we've divided HZ by ourselves because it's an EU directive, but now the European Court of Justice has ruled that it was not necessarily from the European Commission's point of view at all. So it's not what we're being presented that the obligation for us has proved to be and other countries haven't done it. But we turned out to be more Catholics, and than the Pope, we've been falling into it, we've done some damage, but after all, with that verdict, you've got a report that says how much damage it's done to those countries that went into that division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28362	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28363	Yes, thank you, colleague Novak, obviously you listened to the first part of my debate the second part, because I also said that I would be happier if that strategic decision had been made before this law because it would make it easier for us and the interested public to make this law easier, it would be simpler. I can see that you've done your best, and it's been very difficult for me personally to connect these relationships, and that's all I'm saying because of that task that's been done, let's predict all three models. I can understand, there were probably reasons for this, but at the very end of the line, all the mechanisms as I said in my debate all the mechanisms remained in the hands of the Croatian Government to help me by 1.7, help me or 15.7. I don't know when the deadline will come and then start implementing it. I say it's very important that after we make this difficult decision that apparently the former government has been running away from something to change something that we are then starting to implement effectively. And that's where it goes or this whole idea falls. Otherwise I'm the law and I say there's no problem he predicts all three models and I don't understand why and by default one of those three models we have to accept, we went to Europe, the law predicts all three models. Everything else is written perfectly, so I don't see any reason not to accept this law. We can talk about how it's gonna go down and what it's gonna be, but the law itself, I don't see any problem. And I agree with this other part of yours, I hope some other colleague won't say again that someone is speaking against his government. And I'd always be much happier if the laws came in two readings. Here I appeal to the presidents of this ministry as well as to all Croatian governments that whenever it is possible we are actually passing laws in two readings unless it is a technical detail. I ask that such suggestions be and we will be inside the SDP club, in any case, to advocate that everything that can go in two readings and should be read and go in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28364	Our Rules of Procedure say that the law that complies with European legislation goes according to an urgent procedure. That's the kind of rules we've had since we've been harmonising domestic legislation. This does not mean that such laws cannot go into two readings but it is obvious that we are now in the grip of time and that some laws must be passed that may be more complicated. Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28365	Thank you very much. Well, a colleague of Radjenovic's with most of your debates can agree. But if we're going to move what someone did and what we couldn't talk about right now, let's say that what I know in Sisak-Moslavina County was 1,500km down which was high as low as possible, so it had to be renewed, but this story is not going to take us anywhere, nor what was done or what was done. However, there are two key things that we as advocates in this House have to discuss. One thing is that HEP is not ready for this kind of application of this law, and another thing is what I was saying and when I replicated my fellow drinker, are we as a state that has led social policy through the price of energy to the competition for years. And that's the key question. And now we can switch one way or the other. You know very well that most of the Croatian economy has existed through the price of energy for years. When Kutinska petrochemicals came into trouble, when the price of gas went to some level that they can't pay for as well you won't in the past 12, 13 years the standard of Croatian citizens has increased. The very rise in standards consumes energy. And I'm telling you we can talk whatever we want, but for those of you who are on the market right now for those who have a salary below 3,000 kuna, we can't talk to them about market liberalisation. And we can convince and attack each other as much as we want, but colleagues and colleagues are the problem of our neighbors, our citizens, our friends we'll meet on the road. And with full justice they will resist with their finger, and in you from the left and in the right. Why? We've passed that law. So that's what we're talking about, that's what we need to discuss. So let's pass this law, so it needs to be brought into line with the EU directive, but we have some things that the EU does not have and which their citizens do not have. How do you react to that? So it's nothing else. And there's no need for us to shift because remember that through the price of gasoline and through the price of gas and through the price of electricity in a certain way we ran some kind of social policy that wasn't right. But she was like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28366	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28367	It's something we have, and we have to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28368	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28369	I agree that there is no need for over-referencing and I like the calmer tone of this debate compared to what was before, and I commend the debate that we normally have on the board on which I lead on the Committee on Economy because there are many and many... tones there and it is always easier when there are not many cameras when there are not many journalists when some elections are not close and I think we have a shared responsibility about it, we all here together and as a position and as an opposition to bring quality laws to the benefit of the people of Croatia. But you simply can't deny me that in this political arena the government minister who preceded this government that we have concluded in 2009 the directives were adopted, in the negotiations it was agreed that by March 2011 to complete two years of things, promised that this law would be here together with all that you objected that this government did not bring in these years. I simply must say that the HDZ government is headed by Mrs. Kosor at the time and headed by the Minister of Economy of the Drinker, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ, has not done so in two years. She didn't do it in a year, and I was critical of her, and I'm sorry she didn't make that strategic decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28370	It's my friend Nancy Tyrelli's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28371	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here is how much we have to comply with European legislation remains an open question, and that was what we witnessed in this House and last Friday when, on several occasions, we heard that we were chosen by Croatian citizens. We are now discussing how much we are and why we owe Europe because here we have expressed our will and our desire to join the European Union. Unfortunately, we have not implemented the strategy since the adoption of the Energy Development Strategy, since the government has not made it, although it is bound by the Croatian Parliament's decision in the strategy itself. This job is also responsible for the Ministry of Economy, which, as before today, was filled with the mouth of investment investments in energy, especially those of capital. And now we're arguing about the liberalisation of the market, about whether we've done something within or after the deadline. The fact is, and the question is whether we are more obliged to make what we are making in this House as decisions, or whether we are more obliged to do something for Europe because we want to enter Europe. As for liberalisation and what counterpart Shuker said, liberalisation is not only a problem for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We fight very hard to be competitive on the market. How and how competitive we will be in a liberalised electricity market where we will not have any models and tools to control the price of that electricity because the owner will be who knows who. Croatia did not participate in the creation of a European Union directive, and as a non-member, we have committed ourselves to respect the deadlines as well as the full members of the European Union. The first working group meeting took place on June 6th and from that first meeting until September 12th when the last working group meeting was held, including HEP, gave me as much as I think about 300 objections to a specific draft of the law. On 12 September, when the last meeting of the Working Group for the Construction of Electricity Markets Act was held, a draft law on the electricity market was presented in which only one article regulated that the transmission system operator should be organised according to the ITO model, maintaining the maintenance of the entire HEP as such, and that any change to ownership separation would be carried out in the event of an unsatisfactory implementation of the ITO model through the amendment of the law itself. This solution was unanimously accepted by the working group, and was agreed by the representatives of the economy ministry. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, A draft law on the electricity market that norms the possibility of the ownership of the HEP distribution system operator. However, the proposal for a law on the electricity market published on the website of the Ministry of Economy had nothing to do with the text established by the working group of the Ministry of Economy for the construction of that law. Decisions that standardise the models of the separation and separation of transmission system operators, which are those of the 14-18th and distribution system operator in Article 36, are contrary to the conclusion of the working group from 12 September 2012 and as such even worsened to the damage to HEP compared to that version previously presented to the working group. It is important to note that hep, INA, PLINACRO, HERA, HROTE, HANDA and the Chief State Inspectorate worked in the task force alongside experts from the Ministry of Economy. As for Articles 14 and 18, all three possible models are regulated according to that European Union directive, just as well as my colleague Popiac says, and we simply do not know which model to be applied, regardless of how the representatives of HEP are fighting for the ITO model. Although there is no obligation to own the OPS in Article 14, the application of the equity factor as a rule is normised and the other models can be applied exceptionally. The more the term can be organized, the more the term is organized, which does not correspond to the actual state or to the expected future solution. So the claims made in the bill as such are false, so I would only beg for an indication about it. Article 36 of the Law provides for the possibility of the ownership of the distribution system operator without the prior consent of the Croatian Parliament, even though Article 26 of Directive 2009/72EU says: "These rules do not create an obligation for the ownership of the underlying assets of the distribution system operator from a vertically integrated entity. In all this, we could easily conclude that someone really is in a hurry to meet investors in this article 36th, and even the fourth package will not require this separation of the distribution system in the ownership structure, but only the separation of the system in the organisational and management structure. We are left with an answer why the privatisation of energy companies that are the strategic and security issue of each country is covered by the entry and harmonisation of the law with the EU is so easy and here is the explanation. We have heard several times today that the application of such laws will bring a lot of unknowns, a lot of problems for the simple reason that HEP as such is not ready for such a competition. Today's emphasis on energy supply should and supply should certainly be placed only on supply and as such on environmental protection. The priority should be less on market liberalisation and more on security. That's what I think Croatian citizens are looking for and they'd be glad to get it. Privatisation in the energy sector should follow Croatia's line and degree of integration into the EU in order never to put the market in the hands and will of private, especially foreign capital. We have heard from many exhibitors today how important energy is to us, we have heard what it means to each and every one of us individually, but also to the economy as a whole. We've heard just as much as haste with certain decisions wouldn't be good and here's really once again as many of my predecessors I appeal to think about whether we have time to discuss this in this House once more constructively and more thoroughly than we've done today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28372	Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28373	A respected colleague has repeated several times how much we owe Europe. We owe it to ourselves to introduce a liberal market for electricity supply, not to be a monopoly, so that a supplier can be chosen, so that prices and services can be chosen. It speaks of uncertainty and ignorance. No matter how insecure it is that this Law clearly recognises the real dangers of the open market introduces a universal service that ensures that every household has to and can have electricity regardless of who supplies it and introduces guaranteed electricity to all those on the market that, especially entrepreneurs who can choose the supplier because it is more favourable and ensures that in case there are certain problems and circumstances in which it cannot provide them with electricity. Therefore, this law literally gives security and homeliness, gives security to entrepreneurs and gives security that their supply of electricity can be more favourable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28374	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28375	My colleague, if we have as much security as you say, then I don't see why so many doubts have been expressed today on both sides here in this House. Why do we not have an implementation of the Energy Development Strategy? Why didn't we do that if we thought so much about the well-being of citizens and the security of that energy in the Republic of Croatia? Why didn't we rush in here? Why the implementation and implementation of the strategy did not ensure that our citizens also have a secure supply of electricity and at a well-known price that we might be able to make by managing HEP in quality, not to say we have a secure supply of electricity and you will have electricity only we cannot guarantee you at what price.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28376	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28377	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There is no greater security and no greater stability in the supply of electricity to consumers than some future of the common European energy market. And that's what the whole of Europe is going to be, and that's what we want to be part of. And of course it should be ensured by law and practice that that happens. I would very much like to be a consumer and as an economic operator to know that I am part of a unique energy system from Sweden to Croatia in southern Europe. This guarantees of course safety, stability and that is why Europe is doing so. And I have no doubt that all those people who built and worked that system and who tended to be smart enough to build such a unique system in national interests and energy stability, which is a fundamental goal, one of the fundamental objectives, and in fact the reason for the existence of the EU. And I need everything done to make it happen that way. What I doubt, we doubt, after all, is that because of the indecision to clearly determine why the transmission system operator would not also be the owner of the transmission network and why it would not all be owned by the state without intermediaries in it. I don't know why it's heretic to talk about it? Why would the state be the worse owner of the transmission system than the state-owned HEP now? I'm just afraid that we're gonna get involved in these combinations, in the debates, lose another year, and then we're gonna figure out if it actually happened inside HEP, and then some other guy, somebody else, eventually has to deal with it. That's what the fear was and the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28378	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the final word Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28379	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for this little late hour. I hope it doesn't run out of power, but here's to use these five minutes to say the final word. In fact, when I listened to Mr. Poppie, he said that this law was relatively correct and well written, technically, nomotechnically and in all other ways. But as we've figured out a hundred times here, sometimes the path to hell is paved by good intentions, and then even these good words that are so beautifully engaged here and shown, I'm afraid they lead right to it. It is true that both the security and strategic issue is the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia. It is also true that never almost here in these 20 years or we have not actually brought a strategy for the development of the energy sector. It is also true that we have not implemented that EU Directive on 20/20/20 - therefore on the production of renewable energy, etc. It is also true that this government has braked in this energy sector the development of precisely these small energy producers mainly on these photovoltaic cells but rather making efforts to convince the Croatian public in the construction of no longer Plomina 3 on coal, which we do not have but are going to import from overseas remote countries, most likely ships, and Brazil may be concerned or China does not know exactly who and by the changed name Plomin C. It is no longer Plomin 3 now Plomin C. Because this 3 fits into some 335 megawatts, and now at 500 megawatts is Plomin C, so it changed the name from 3 to C. Because of that and because of all the doubts that indeed, as the highways went into monetisation, this is actually one form of monetisation of HEP, our energy sector, or at least that part of which Mr Popiac is talking about, and this transmission infrastructure. Col. Milinkovic, he is not here, just before in an informal conversation says he sees nicely from his place that is borderline with the Republic of Hungary, and also goes to Hungary sometimes, so he sees the French managing, someone, Frenchly privatised distribution of Hungary also sees curved columns that no one has been repairing for months or years. They're about to lie on the ground. I do not want to doubt that whoever takes and who is the owner or operator as Mr. Popioč said, the network may treat us this way, but given some previous experiences and experiences of other countries that have recently joined the EU, starting with both Hungary and Romania and Bulgaria, I fear that this will not be good for the country of Croatia or for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, it's strange that such a resource here is being exposed to opportunities and we're looking for someone who's going to be a mediator between end-user and HEP. To give someone something to control what you've built, done, what already exists and what's already been developed, which is being stalked, and now someone's using and ultimately making money. Is it true that the state of Croatia, do we really not know how to earn money from either highway or from HEP or so? But obviously we don't know because we've been brought into losses, into the dubious things we're talking about. So I'm always surprised that it is possible that Croatian forests are in the dubiosis, the threads are shining, the artificial fertilisers are spilling, nor are the weapons, the threads are digging, and the forest is growing and there is a surface of Croatia is 60% under the woods. And they say in losses, so I don't understand it at all? So incompetent administrations and incompetent management also lead to situations like this. Or the situation is that someone said that although the EU directives are not really like Mr Novak said they would force or persuade or determine, so in that segment, there is something that we must do urgently. And in the end, this debate, which is an emergency procedure, is it possible? Here's the last sentence. [[Breeder Zgrebec: Bring your colleague to the site.]] So, is it possible that both in that term and in this 13 months of this term, we are coming to a teat like this where here we have to decide what hop, in an hour. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28380	Thank you very much. Replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28381	Dear colleague, the truth is not about monetization but about the liberalisation of the electricity market. These are two fundamentally different concepts especially when we talk about Croatia's electricity or electricity supply. This law also clearly states that the distribution of electricity remains regulated activities and the supply and production of electricity becomes market activities, while the transmission of electricity will remain exclusively under the control and control of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28382	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28383	Thank you very much. Just what you said, my colleague, I confirm. The liberalisation introduces monetization. She's been gone so far, there's been no monetization. So it's all clear, so of course it's liberalisation, so what does that mean, rather than exactly what I said. You just confirmed what I said, actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28384	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28385	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, in the closing sentence, or at the end of your debate, you said what is the point of this matter. It was called liberalisation, monetization, fiscalization, whatever you want. It's about everything that we're saying with this we don't have quality people, not us, the government doesn't have quality people and those she's put in charge of all of her administrations so far, she doesn't trust them and she realizes she has incompetent personnel and I can't handle this, so then give the liberalisation solution to someone from outside, they'll know out there, they'll know that this forest doesn't need that you mentioned doesn't need an eagle or a fertiliser, or I don't know what else, but they'll know the collected income from them. But what will be the result will our citizens feel, but it will unfortunately feel generations behind us, what is the world stopping with us?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28386	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28387	Col. Novak, don't you find it odd that in such responsible places state-owned companies, public-run systems are being set up by people who have ruined many companies in their previous careers and have come directly from that place, so the ruined managers and managers of these companies, for the drive of such a large system as HEP. So what we can expect from such people at all, except for the party resemblance and there's the sale of HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28388	And the Golden Commander's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28389	I just wanted to say that what my colleague is saying and most of the debaters are saying today, so this is actually a law on the privatisation of HEP, which is not the law. And logically political to tend to actually replace and talk about what is politically so convenient that people are withdrawn by bad experiences in Croatia at HT and some other privatisations of Ina or some others are then rightly afraid. But when you look at it logically, I am not some big fan of liberalisation or a liberal market, but it seems to me to be living in such a world and that my colleague Poppie said well that we must align with the EU in the distribution system that we have a compatible system that allows everyone to access that system. We need to enable access to another manufacturer of different energy that the buyer can buy electricity from either one or the other or from another, and that does not mean that our HEP that will produce electricity is not needed to privatise, as it does not mean that the distribution network should be privatised. However, I am in favour of remaining public property, but there must be another legal entity, there must be another firm not HEP, some other as it is already called Plinacro that allows customers and gas sellers to access the same price, so in the same market. I think we should figure out that part, and I believe that one day we'll discuss it if it's necessary to discuss what you've been saying about the privatisation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28390	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28391	Comrade Komadin, I would almost agree with you only that this law does not say what you say and I agree with you in most ways. And the other day he was given on Croatian television or somewhere a documentary film, given in the selection of Djele Hadjeselimovic or someone else about the British model of the energy system when the English came from work about 6 hours, as a huge blow to electricity consumption, they have an atomic one central somewhere in reserve, in reserve to say that this dispatcher is very skilled within a second, tens of seconds must be included. I wish we had such a system that would have developed it so far, so far already, unfortunately with us it's obviously not because I don't know if we have... The currents in Ogulin or Gorski Kotar where this storm came from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what it says about privatization, no one's saying nor is it seen so easily from this material about it, but we have in medicine one saying a crawling hidden infection, so this is one actually crawling into privatisation, slowly fine this is the first act just, just the first step, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28392	On behalf of the proponent of Deputy Minister of Economy Tamara Obradović-Mazal final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28393	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Really very briefly because not because I'm not as focused as a colleague from the HDSSB says, but perhaps because of the deconcentration and simply because of the crawling, which infections, which privatise, sell, I just don't see it. I'm saying it may be a lack of concentration, but in law, it's either creeping or not, I don't recognize it. Also, with a small step away from the Electricity Market Act, I do not recognize that spirit as it was said. I quote no privatisation, especially to strangers. I hope that outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia someone simultaneously does not translate our debates because, indeed, a few weeks ago, we have a big debate on investments, accepting any investment, and even those foreign ones somehow a lot of it anti-enterprise and anti-investment sounds when we say no privatisation, and now, if it has to be particularly foreign. There are some segments especially along the coast and in hotel segments to not point my finger at anyone in particular where when you compare domestic and foreign investment, it is in certain segments that you get tears about what a domestic investor is, and not with a site at least so designerly viewed outside but it is not a topic today. So, in the shortest possible lines, the debate is interesting because, in addition to being praised for the content, the nomochnik of the law, which recognises the sale of HEP and the complete infrastructure of the crawling privatisation infection, the Ministry or the Government is acting with this bill to harm the HEP and then admits this one positive feedback and reaction from the union, and then we go in favour. So it was kind of hard to figure out how to recapture this, so let me do a really short summary the next way through three reviews. First of all, I think Mr. Prosecutor the Drinker reminded us of who owns HEP. In a debate, it's as if we're forgetting who the HEP owns, as if HEP is one imaginary satellite that no one controls. So even this HEP when it's decided, and I'm going to get to the moment of decision making, HEP won't just wake up one day or whoever's leading it doesn't matter and say e out of those three models I'm in the mood for this one. HEP as a state-owned company also has its own decision-making bodies, it has its own board of directors, it has the Assembly, its owner, and its founder is the Republic of Croatia, so we must notice this one ownership synergy between the Republic of Croatia and the company, or a company such as HEP. So when we overemphasise and prename it, perhaps at this point, the fact that HEP or technique, technicians, the profession within HEP, but not only the profession within HEP, but those who know the whole of whose ownership tomorrow is the transfer of distributions in terms of the whole, and who can detect where the distinction of HEP ownership is over the infrastructure who will say whose trafostation is on the left or whose network is on the right is only HEEP. It's like any of you are redecorating my apartment, and I know it from the inside, and somehow I can do it best. So at this technical level, only by listing an inventory of what is tomorrow in the system of applying any of the three models that are processed in the law somehow HEP knows best from within the beginning which is that any of the three models that have been elaborated in the law as in some way menü when deciding, rather than a decision on a perse model, could be made to make the right decision. That decision will be made but I say not in a way that one day someone in HEP will say I chose TSO, ITO, ISO, but it will be a decision that will be a synergy between the owner of HEP, the founder of HEP Republic through the body mechanism, therefore institutionally viewed through the bodies that make decisions and verify the decisions made by HEP, means very directly speaking to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which through our members in the Supervisory Board, through their own assembly and through their appointed administration has an impact and has effect in this segment. And now, between the countries that have one or that model, each has its own pluses and minuses. The fact is that it has been noted that non-core businesses have some part of certain energy companies that did not represent the part that was kept in the possession of the owner or state that was more available for sale than in the case of another model. I don't name them on purpose, but now it's really on the scale of the difference between what we want and what we don't want. What may well be better to know at the beginning of what you do not want. What you certainly don't want is a channel to sell HEP, according to the sale of infrastructure. This law primarily regulates the electricity market where other players are present and other players will also be present. Yes, it also deals concentratedly with the application of one of the three HEP models but also equally focused on liberalised energy conditions in this case of electricity markets and it is simply a circumstance, fact and future that we cannot escape, and that we wanted to run away then I guess we would never apply for EU membership, so if we have 6 or 5 months before we join the EU, we actually have a phobia of the reality of what is ahead of us, what we agree to and what we join 1.7. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28394	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28395	Final proposal of the Electricity Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 237. The debate on the text of the law is closed. The amendments have been submitted, the special table has been distributed to the MPs, and we will now ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to present himself. Amendment number one to representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28396	It's unacceptable. In the light of this proposal, the electricity system includes a broader concept than what the transmission system operator is carrying out in the context of its energy activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28397	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the applicant for an amendment to the respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28398	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I think this is pure nomotechnic. Instead of writing a legal or physical person, it is responsible for the drive and running of the power system, since we are talking about the proposal of the Law on the Energy Market. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28399	Thank you very much. Who is for the amendment of the respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli, whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number two of the HNS Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28400	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28401	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number three of the HNS Representatives Clubs?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28402	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28403	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number four to the respected representative Nancy Tyrelli?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28404	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the quality of electricity is prescribed quality conditions for the supply of electricity in which electricity entities are determined to maintain the level of quality of service both in the provision of public service and in the pursuit of market energy activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28405	Thank you very much. Dear Nancy Tyrelli, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28406	Thank you, Mr. President. So here we are talking about electricity activities in Article 7 so if we have already mentioned that according to the rules governing market relations where the quantities and prices of the electricity delivered are freely negotiated or negotiated, then I really don't see why, with that amount and price, the quality of the electricity would not be written. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28407	Thank you very much. Please state who is for the amendment of a respected representative whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number five to the respected representative Nancy Tyrelli?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28408	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the provisions of this proposal of the law, sublegal acts resulting therefrom shall be determined on the regulated market in accordance with the rules of this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28409	Thank you very much. Dear Nancy Tyrelli, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28410	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there's been a lot of debate here when we talked about this law in the assembly. In fact, HEP has an obligation to take all energy from renewable energy sources, but what happens if that energy is higher? It will turn out that according to this, we are now obliged to buy more expensive energy from the bill and simply ignore it. The amendment applies only to protecting cheaper energy so that consumers ultimately have a cheaper price. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28411	Thank you very much. Please state who is for the amendment of the respected representative Nancy Tyrelli whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment six of the HNS Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28412	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28413	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number seven of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28414	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28415	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 8 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28416	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28417	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 9 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28418	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28419	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 10 Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28420	The government doesn't accept. In particular, there must be a mechanism to ensure the smooth functioning of the electricity market, as well as the access of all participants to an equal and transparent distribution system, which is the obligation of the distribution system operator to which the supervision is performed by an independent regulatory body, i.e. HERA.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28421	Representative of the club respected representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28422	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's when we discussed this law, then we almost kept hearing about how we don't understand this law, how we misread it, how it's not true that only the government will be able to decide which way and which one is going to be sold out and sold out of state property, and exactly by not accepting this proposal, or this amendment, you're showing that we were right. In a law where you propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, on a proposal from the Ministry, separate financial, i.e. basic funds from the distribution centre and call for a package 3 of the European Union Directive, where the European Union is asking us only to separate in the management and organisational sense, but not in financial terms, you are letting us know that you do not care at all how the state property will be sold, and not that it is decided solely by the Government. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28423	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 10 Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 11 of the HNS Representatives Club. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28424	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28425	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 12 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28426	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28427	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 13 of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28428	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28429	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 14 of Honored Representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28430	The amendment is not accepted. In this case, the Commercial Court of Zagreb has proposed a long and shortened name of the transmission system operator, taking into account the energy activity carried out by the transmission system operator, as well as the provisions of the Commercial Society Act on the registration of the company's name in the court register of the competent commercial court in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28431	Honorable representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28432	Thank you. I don't really know what that explanation is, it means that no matter what this law was here at reading the Trade Court, it's already accepted on behalf of someone you suggested in this law itself. Therefore, HEP-Operator of the transmission system for electricity transmission will be renamed to the Croatian Power Transfer Operator d.o.o., with the shortest HOPE within the time limit set out in paragraph 4. of this Article. So we're talking about the power operator. What happens when the operators of something else, as we'll call them, is that it was clean for that reason. And just for a short time, under regular number 26 at the government meeting last week on Friday, there was a proposal to give consent to a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of amendments to the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Croatian Representatives on the Final Proposal for the Electricity Market. I wonder if the government has at all discussed these submitted requests that you have not accepted today, which means either erasing or recommending the Government to delete such points of the agenda in such a way as to show or then to discuss any amendments that the Government receives and discusses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28433	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28434	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28435	I would like to make a statement on Amendment number 14 of the respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli, who is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 15 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28436	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28437	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. No more amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour and 31 votes against with one vote the Law on the electricity market in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28438	We move on to the - Proposed Mining Act, first reading, PZE No. 249 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. in the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal also want to be further explained by the applicant's representative? Deputy Minister of Economy Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28439	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you, I almost wanted to say the final draft of the Mining Act, but as you know and what you are informed about, there was a need and the government stood behind this law actually being directed to the Parliament in two readings so that the text that you have before you is a legal proposal in the first reading. I would also like to inform you and tell you that, in the meantime, we have further consultation meetings with the interested public tomorrow morning, i.e. with certain interest groups in a broader composition, so that we may concentrate on 5.6 open issues. I believe that some of them will have the opportunity to hear and in the debate, I will take the opportunity to answer them. So tomorrow with a certain, as I said with a certain interested public we will continue to work on this text of the law, open these few topics that have come under increase, see to what level we can agree with each other and, of course, a harmonised version, as far as it will be possible to refer you back to the debate in the second reading. In the shortest possible lines, what I really want to present in the shortest possible terms is what I really want to present in this draft bill, in short, in some 7-8 points, the novels this bill makes. Primaryly based on feedback from the field, i.e. by those who have a licence or concession for exploitation, by units of local self-government, by economic operators or economic operators on the market, so a summary of the past few years and the need simply to show that the applicable law, the applicable legal framework, is flexible, simply removes those objectively viewed circumstances which are only in life after some time shows that it needs to be corrected. Thus, this proposal provides for a single procedure to grant a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials consisting of 4 related phases, on the one hand, for the selection of the most favourable bidder for the exploration of mineral raw materials, the procedure for granting an authorisation for research, the procedure for establishing an exploitation field in accordance with the location permit, the procedure for granting a concession for exploitation, that is, the single procedure for all 4 segments. One public tender for the authorisation of mineral raw materials research in order to grant concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the production and verification of an idea mining project, the limited age of exploitation, the more effective control of the exploited quantities of mineral raw materials and the payment of concession fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the insurance of recovery costs, the recovery of space, the implementation of mining works in special situations and the adjustment of regulations for specific cases of exploitation such as sea salt, construction sand, seabed gravel, storage or permanent disposal of gases in geological structures. Some of the outstanding issues that we will discuss at technical and professional level tomorrow, I say in advance, refer to, for example, the possibility for a natural person to work, i.e. to perform a part relating to mining project technical documentation. One segment refers to the determination of the height and the way in which the mining rent is prescribed in general. We will also consider the part to be seen in the context of, for example, the Law on Spatial Planning and Exploitation before and after the identification of the localities themselves, which is specifically prescribed by the Spatial Arrangement Act, the possibility of extending the concession and after 40 years, in particular in which case the concession shall be taken away if the break in the field itself lasts longer than 180 days. Here are some of the questions we're going to develop with the interested professional public between the two readings. I thank you for your attention as well as for the previously discussed bill on the parliamentary committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28440	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the workers want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the first club of the HNS and respected representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28441	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the distinguished deputy minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here is a really important law that will finally create preconditions for the purpose and effective management of mineral raw materials. Personally, I believe that this law corrects and removes certain indetermination, indifference and problems arising from the concrete implementation of the applicable law. Some of them were also pointed out by the European Commission, as well as by certain mining operators, who, in a particularly challenging situation, have, in view of the economic crisis which, by blocking construction activities, have been directly mirrored by the mining activity. The Mining Act has been developed in order to bring the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union in the field of energy and industry. But I would point out that it was actually built with a basic intention and purpose to ensure fair market conditions in which the Republic of Croatia as the owner of mineral raw materials and mining economic operators as concessionaries for the exploitation of mineral raw materials found their interest in the development of mining activities in Croatia. I would refer specifically to several points in this debate which actually introduce important changes in relation to the existing law. The first part refers to the tender procedure. This law drastically simplifys the procedure, but what is most important is that it allows the concession to be given to the one who invested or invested in the research. Because so far, the situation has looked like this: the company has gone into research and invested significant resources in it. Maybe here's just a orderly amount of research costs in solid raw materials, so stone, clay, metal can't be made for less than 5 million kuna. And when we talk about exploring oil and gas for one well, it's about 20 million kuna, with no serious research you can do without a minimum of three wells. So this is about really large funds invested in research so that the company that invested those funds in the research would be put in a position to go to the competition because in the tender the right to exploit gets a company that has not invested either. This, of course, puts all potential investors in a situation where they are not ready to take a huge risk, so in the area of exploitation, there is one status quo in Croatia for a long time. The new law in this section prescribes, instead of the three competitions so far, only one public tender for the approval of research and raw materials for the award of a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Therefore, with respect to all legal obligations, the procedure is accelerated and 100% legal certainty is given to mining entities that have done research. Furthermore, the law stipulates that stopping for more than 180 days means actually breaking up. The practice has shown that large systems, therefore large companies and most often sides that have the right to exploit, for example 5 fields, but in 4 they have not exploited but have only done it in one field. Thus, they agreed to a monopoly that raw materials can only be obtained in one field at the price they set and in the time period they set. And that, of course, with the fact that the cost had only one exploitation field, so costs and machinery and labour force. Such a legal provision prevents this kind of manipulation. A significant newspaper in this law is also a new way of calculating concessionaires' fees. The law defines exactly at which point the concessionary starts to pay compensation, and the fee itself now consists of two parts of a fiscal charge that is charged on the surface of the exploitation field and as such goes to local self-government units, which is particularly supportive because it is absolutely logical that units of local self-government where research and exploitation are done to them and go to them. The second variable part, which is calculated as a fee on the value of the quantity and the income is evenly distributed between municipalities and cities, the county and the state. So two-thirds of it still remain for local communities. What is also particularly important for the prominent is the control of the fee. In fact, the law correctly regulates that every year 31.12., concessionaries must provide a map of the situation of mining works, where it is seen exactly what has been done and done over the past year. Also, there is an obligation to make elaborates, reserves every 5 years. This gives the economy's competent authority a clear insight into the scale of exploitation. Changes are also related to spatial planning issues. Research can't begin unless it's foreseen by a spatial plan. This is also an important instrument of legal protection for economic operators, as this does not lead them to explore, or invest, as I have previously said significant funds in an area that may eventually never get a location permit, and thus also a work permit. In the case of the scope of the exploitation field, the most important moment to be regulated by this law is the identification of all possible obstacles that exist in a given area. So protected zones, archaeological sites, etc. where no exploitation will be possible, and these areas are immediately excluded from the field of exploitation. So the economic operators are doing all the necessary documentation and all the necessary actions only for the part of the exploitation field that will be able to exploit and not therefore for the whole area as it has been the case so far. One of the perhaps most significant provisions of this Law is certainly the one relating to the recovery of the exploitation field. Unfortunately, frequent examples from our cities and municipalities have been that the company has been exploiting a specific area for years in accordance with all regulations. But when the exploitation ends, it avoids the recovery of that space in every possible way. The most common model for the company to be put into bankruptcy after the completion of the exploitation and thus avoid the obligation of recovery. In order to avoid such and similar situations, this Law also introduces a new model whereby any economic operator carrying out the exploitation must give the State a bank guarantee in the amount of the environmental study assessment. This provides the state with funds to resuscitate the locality regardless of the fate of the company following the completion of the exploitation. I find this a truly important change that guarantees the preservation of our country's environment above all. I would even point out in particular that this is most important for new potential findings in the Adriatic Sea because we, of course, must provide research and exploitation of our natural resources in the Adriatic Sea, and on the other hand we must ensure absolutely possible protection of our Adriatic. This is also related to the provision for increasing sanctions for both economic operators and responsible persons, and we believe that these increased penalties will primarily prevent potential offenders, and there is also the obligation to compensate for both legal and natural persons. These are all instruments that protect the state from illegal availability of natural resources. Furthermore, the course of exploitation is limited to 40 years, not as it was now, as someone said to the country's centre and to the end of the world. All existing concessionaries will have two years to adapt to the new law. The rights acquired are of course recognised, but for the sake of protection and competition and of course national natural resources, this adjustment is necessary. Here and perhaps, in conclusion, this law makes a number of positive changes relating to ensuring competition and competitiveness. Legal protection and safety of economic operators and investors are ensured, but on the other hand, protection and proper treatment of the natural resources of our country are ensured. Of course, the HNS supports this law, although two discussions have been held for a month and how many I have sent as many as 8 working group meetings felt the need for another reading. We support it, of course, it's about the very important natural resources of our country and I believe that in these two readings we will be able to find the best solution and the best model for this Mining Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28442	Thank you, too. The next club is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28443	Dear President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I should say that it is very good that the government gave up the emergency procedure of this important law and it is good to have a debate with the interested public although I think it should have been better done before this bill came into the parliamentary procedure. I will begin when it comes to this law on three important articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The first is Article 52, which speaks of the sea, seashore, islands, waters, airspace, mineral goods, other natural resources, land and forests which are prescribed to have special protection and that the law lays down the way in which goods of interest to the Republic of Croatia can be used and exploited by the rightholders on them and the owners and the compensation for the restrictions they are subject to. In addition to this Article 52, Article 48 which states that ownership is binding, that rightholders and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution that states that the state provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market. Abuse of the monopolies of a certain law is forbidden. I was saying this primarily because the current law, Article 7 and the proposed law of Article 6 are prescribed that the strategy for the management of mineral raw materials is adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Do we have a strategy? We don't. We don't seem to need any strategy. The Council adopts a law that is then in some parts knowingly violates because what is prescribed by law does not even apply. As early as 2008, the ministry ordered the creation of a strategy and as far as I know about it, the Croatian Parliament did not discuss or adopt it even though it stems from the law as an obligation. And that tells us how we treat ourselves when it comes to mine treasure. The provisions of the law apply to research, exploitation of mineral raw materials located in the country or on its surface, over or below the river, lake, seabed or seawater, in the internal sea or territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia or in the Adriatic Sea. The mineral treasure is non-renewable of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and the mining base is an economic branch that creates new values and promotes and supports the work of a whole range of other production industries such as energy, construction, processing, etc. The value of unprocessed mineral raw materials obtained in Croatia is about 9 billion kuna. Only from mining rentals directly per year comes close to half a billion kuna. This proves that the Mining Act is a very important law that has a broad impact not only on mining but also on many other economic activities and society. Although mining in Croatia has the status of a troubled sector, this bill will not solve these problems because the proposal is quite complicated, contradictory, illogical and in one part unarranged. For example, Article 8 provides that for certain mineral raw materials, the ministry is a competent body while for other mineral raw materials the competent authority is the Office of State Administration in the regional self-government unit. And by law, we offer the following solutions, such as the documentation on the reserves of all kinds of mineral raw materials, to be checked by the Commission for the determination of the reserves of mineral raw materials established and its members appointed by the Minister responsible for mining pursuant to Article 55. The verification of all mining products referred to in Article 5 shall be carried out by the Expert Commission for the verification of mining projects of the Ministry of Mining. In accordance with Article 98, an expert examination shall be passed for all tasks and tasks of professional management in the performance of mining works, which shall be carried out by the Ministry of Mining. The expert examination shall be carried out by the Examining Committee for the conduct of expert examinations established by the Minister responsible for Mining pursuant to Article 147. So, everything about mining in the Republic of Croatia literally everything from idea to realization is checked in the Ministry of Economy, the Mining Sector. And all power is concentrated in the hands of one person. It is not difficult to conclude that a person who controls everything from idea to realization, is not hard to identify the legal persons who will make the proposals on reserves and mining projects while it is disabled for natural persons, authorised engineers, and then I wonder why in Article 174. The establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Engineers, Mining, Geology and Oil Mining is a feature. What they're going to do for a living. Furthermore, the proposal for a law in large part does not respect the provisions of Article 8. The concession law as set out in Article 63, Article 74, point 3(3) and Article 2(3) and the whole burden of solving property legal relations shall be transferred to the concessionaire regardless of who owns the land, the particles on which mining activity, state or private property will be carried out. It is no doubt that this law does not comply with the concession law, Article 8 which stipulates that a person who acquires the right to concessions, acquires the right to use and real estate as long as the concession takes place and within the scope necessary for the execution of the concession, as well as the right to pass, or to drive all vehicles, with all the burdens to enforce the concession for the necessary passage. Furthermore, the transitional and final provisions of the law are very questionable in the work of rights acquired and are contrary to the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act because the rights acquired are rights acquired and should not have any effect on them. Article 168 of the Law provides for the replacement of the solution for the implementation of mining works for concession solutions. The General Administrative Procedure Act does not know the concept of replacing a solution. Decisions may be repealed or abolished if they are not under the law. And the general administrative procedure law clearly provides for the conditions under which the decision is to be annulled or abolished. Article 168(5) states: ‘If, before the entry into force of this law, the authorisation without legal basis is already replaced by a concession without a public tender, such concession is without legal effect and is deemed to be still valid for the implementation of mining works’, so if there are such illegal solutions, and apparently there are, then someone should probably answer for them. In this case, instead of introducing order, he's trying to amneste someone for illegal acts. In this way, legal regulations are further complicated and direct damage to one entire economic branch is done. They're part of the provisions of the law, and they're anti-enterprise. Article 24(7) determines if a natural person or legal person submits a proposal for tendering a public tender in the proposal must necessarily indicate or provide evidence that the proposed investigative space for that purpose is planned by means of documents of spatial arrangement. Therefore, in order to initiate a concession procedure in some space, it must be confirmed that this space is planned for that purpose by spatial planning documents. How some space will be planned for the exploitation of mineral raw materials if it does not first investigate and determine the existence of raw materials. Provisions that a concession procedure can be launched exclusively for spaces already defined by spatial plans as an area of exploitation are absolutely anti-enterprise and it prevents any other activity in such a mining economic sector. Furthermore, the law also provides for a fee for research in Articles 30 and 68. Under conditions where a mining entity carries all the costs and risk of research, and does not obtain in the tender documentation any useful data on the potential of the bed, it is all the cost and all the research data becomes the property of a free country. Therefore, it would be desirable for a mining entrepreneur to at least stimulate him not to pay research fees. It is further prescribed that the minimum concession fee under Article 68(3) may be amended by a unilateral government regulation. This creates uncertainty on the agreed amount at the agreed amount of the concession for the payment of mineral raw materials, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 49(4), which I mentioned at the outset. Article 84 of the Law provides that a temporary suspension of the implementation of mining works in accordance with the provisions of this Act may take longer than 180 days in one calendar year. If a temporary suspension of the operation of mining works lasts for a longer period of 180 days in one calendar year, the concessionary is deemed to have completely or permanently suspended the operation of mining works on the exploitation field, i.e. he loses all rights on the subject of the exploitation field. This provision is unnecessary, bad and harmful to many economic operators, especially those dealing with the exploitation and processing of mineral raw materials for the industrial processing of the brick industries, the glass industry and the cement industry. For example, I'll only take the technological process of exploiting clay. The clay is excavated on a clay mine as a rule from the 5th to the 10th month when it is allowed during that time and opportunity because wet weather makes it difficult and makes it impossible to work in claycaps or dumps. And the clay should be deposited dry and due to the technological process itself, the clay is deposited in the intended area within a brick circle where it is serving for 6 months to one year to homogenize and such is taken and entered into the technological process for the brick production. This tells us that in the normal technological process of exploiting ciglar clay, only four to five months are performed until seven to eight months there is no need for the exploitation of ciglar clay. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth This law will be taken away by law. If that is wise, Article 90(4) provides that the authority responsible for mining will simply terminate the concession contract and confiscate all previously acquired rights in the exploitation field without cash compensation, and the same includes all technical documentation and acts. If, during a five-year period, no quantities of mineral raw materials determined by the concession contract have been unearthed or obtained from the start of mining operations on the exploitation field. This provision is also fatal for operators involved in the exploitation and processing of mineral raw materials for industrial processing. For example, one plant in normal market conditions plans an annual production of 2 million tonnes and therefore makes a project documentation, and for 5 years it does not unearth the necessary raw material in the production of 10 million tonnes it will all be taken without any use. With this provision in five years, they could be closed like Knauf, Cemeks, Lipik Glass, Weinberger and others. The law itself is hard to read, complicated, containing 176 articles mostly such legal structures that they are incomprehensible for example. Article 17 takes 4 pages of text to A4. The question arises whether this complexity of the law is the reason for compliance with EU legislation and whether such a law will prevent major economic disturbances. In the draft law, Article 13. Mining facilities and facilities shall be defined in one single sentence, which reads: "The mining facilities and installations within the meaning of this law shall be regarded as all the facilities, equipment, tools, devices and installations used for the implementation of the mining works referred to in Article 9 of the Law". And to compare the construction of mining facilities and facilities is standardized on 14 pages of text, 34 articles, and they are practically complicated. And because of this, Croatian Labourists believe that this bill is bad and harmful, and I fear that another reading will be difficult to fix, and I call on lawmakers to make sure that the mineral wealth is one of the special interests for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28444	Thank you, too. Club of representatives of the SDP of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28445	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So here I'm going to say that our proposal for a law on mining is in the first reading, and it's good that it's like a proposal from the government of the Republic of Croatia I don't find it difficult to read and I think it's pretty good, although it's good that in the first reading because there are a few concerns that I hope will solve between the first and the second reading. I'll try them now here in a way to sum up, say what I think is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. This proposal is therefore in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, i.e. with the legal property of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, although this has already been done but the existing legal framework governing the mining activity in the Republic of Croatia makes the Law on Mining 2009 and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2011 Mining Act, the applicable legal framework governing mining in the Republic of Croatia, in line with the legal property of the EU and the Law on concessions as early as 2008. In the applicable mining legislation, the exploitation field of mineral raw materials as the basis of mining activity in which only mineral raw materials can be exploited is not properly treated. So, as the law itself states by December 2012 in the Republic of Croatia, 668 exploitation fields of mineral raw materials have been approved in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy 261 is an exploitation field of mineral raw materials. Since there were illogicalities and problems in implementing the existing Mining Act, the need for a new whole law has been shown. The provisions of the proposal for this law relate to the exploration and exploitation of mineral raw materials located in the country and on its surface on the river, lake or seabed or beneath it in the internal sea waters or territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia or in the area of the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal for a mining law regulates the management of mineral raw materials and the planning of mining economic activities, research and identification of reserves of mineral raw materials, the production and verification of mining projects, the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the construction and use of mining facilities and plants. The development of mining plans and the implementation of mining measures, the rehabilitation of unearthed areas, the compensation for the execution of mining works, the compensation for damages, the measurement of safety and protection, the conditions for the operation of... mining operations, administrative inspection and criminal provisions, therefore all that is necessary in one of these activities as of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The significant newspaper that introduces this proposal of the Mining Act is that a more specific procedure is prescribed to grant a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. A public tender for the authorisation and investigation of mineral raw materials has been established for the award of a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, which gives legal certainty to economic operators out of respect for all legal obligations. The creation and verification of an idea mining project which becomes the basis for the assessment of the acceptability of the environmental network procedures, environmental impact studies and for the establishment of a mining operation permit, the limited duration of the exploitation period to 40 years at the end of which the recovery of space is committed, of course, if the concession is not extended in the final draft of the law. More effective is the control of the quantities of mineral raw materials exploited and the payment of concession fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and whose annual fee is determined by the regulation; the insurance of recovery costs in terms of guarantee insurance obligations is regulated, and prior to the signing of the concession contract for the cost of recovery of the exploitation field; the procedure for the recovery of space and implementation of mining works in special situations is prescribed. The rules for specific conditions of exploitation in terms of the determination of reserves of mineral raw materials and their exploitation in relation to determined quantities and regulations are also adapted to other specific cases such as storage of gases and the permanent disposal of CO2 gases in geological structures. This law lays down provisions governing the storage and permanent disposal of those gases. The mineral treasure is generally of general interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection and is exploited under the conditions prescribed by this law. The mine is owned by the Republic of Croatia. The mining entity is obliged to pay cash compensation for carrying out mining work on the investigational exploitation field of mineral raw materials. The amount of minimum fees is prescribed by the Government as I have already mentioned by the regulation and may be changed to the Ministry of Mining's proposal. I think that's a good solution. In the event of an amendment to the legal and sub-legislative rules, it is also required to pay cash compensation for the implementation of mining works, which means amending decisions and concession contracts. Mines are considered organic and inorganic mineral raw materials located in a solid, liquid or gasic state in the original bed, applied, as stated in the law... hunting grounds, cost, natural stages. Mineral raw materials are defined in five categories, i.e. energy mineral raw materials, mineral raw materials for industrial processing, mineral raw materials for building material, architectural construction stone and mineral raw materials. Next, the Republic of Croatia is enrolled in the fields of exploitation. The Republic of Croatia is making use of the fields for authorised authorities under specified conditions. The pre-determined exploitation fields have been established and approved by the law so far have been entered by the Republic of Croatia following the expiry of concession or approval for the execution of mining works and, if not yet replaced by the concession, are subject to the law of the Republic of Croatia. This law lays down the introduction of a strategy for the management of mineral raw materials. The strategy lays down the basics and guidelines of economic, technical, scientific, organisational and other measures for the management of mineral raw materials. It also establishes a meaningful and efficient exploitation, reliable supply, sustainable use of mineral raw materials and protection of the environment. The strategy for the management of mineral raw materials brings the Croatian Parliament to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is also good because it is the general good of interest for the Republic of Croatia. The law lays down the obligation of units of local self-government and units of regional (regional) self-government to ensure in their development documents the implementation of the Strategy for the Management of Mineral Raw materials and to ensure implementation within 3 years of the date of its adoption in the Assembly. This bill also provides for the obligation of the units of the regional (regional) self-government to make mining and geological studies for their areas covering existing and potential beds of mineral raw materials, which must be consistent with the mineral raw materials management strategy. The obligation of local self-government units is also introduced to plan the needs and means of supplying mineral raw materials on the basis of those mining and geological studies in their strategic and planning spatial planning documents. As I have already stated, this proposal for a Mining Act tries to regulate sustainable and efficient management of mineral raw materials, control of concessions and protection of mineral raw materials reserves themselves, as well as the recovery of space in areas where mineral raw materials have ceased to be exploited. The intention is good, but it is also good that this bill is still in the first reading because it is possible to intervene as necessary in those provisions that might explain some of the misunderstandings because in the field and in the public under the cover of mineral raw materials research fields, the exploitation of certain other raw materials such as construction material can take place. In this regard, there is a need, and here I feel it mentioned, which, especially in relation to local self-government units, determines the real current situation in the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and I would especially note the large increase in approved research fields in small narrow areas, which are usually located in areas where quarrys are usually already present. It's for that case. I'm not saying, there's probably that in some other areas. This indicates the need to identify possible abuses in terms of the exploitation, breaking and grinding of stone for building purposes, and that it is not a building-architectural concrete, or stone. This allows for a huge profit from a completely different activity that is not the content of the concession, i.e. approval. It would be necessary to limit in one area the total area for all research exploitation fields that can be approved. Therefore, it is possible and doubtful that such investigative spears should also put off materials that should not be put off. Some of them have been reported with mining inspections. It is not until the end understood the status of units of local self-government in view of mining-geological research, i.e. their planning and supply mode. It is not all the same to talk about geothermal waters, sea salt, oil, or stone that can be used for building or grinding into gravel for concreteists as a possible reality. The local self-government unit is not in any jurisdiction except that it must necessarily provide for the field of investigation in space under this bill. What if mining-geological research shows that existing fields that have been approved in larger numbers in recent years are only actually stone beds, e.g. It's a slate. Does that mean that we're just talking about quarrys where there's a different example somewhere else? Local self-government units, according to this law, would need to introduce a mineral raw materials management strategy into their overall development plan. Does this mean, for example, that in the area of the local self-government unit, which owns the local self-government unit or perhaps Croatian forests, and that the forest does not have or some other state-owned company will necessarily have to predict the exploitation of mineral ore. This would mean that for some area that may be a different area of use at this time or a previously built settlement in terms of mining-geological study, a different strategy for the development of a local self-government unit for this area should be envisaged and introduced drastic changes in space without respecting the current strategy for the development of the local self-government unit itself. This would be a direct entry into the jurisdiction of local self-government units without the local self-government unit having any jurisdiction under Article 8 of the Law proposal. Local self-government units have very low income under existing legal and sublaw regulations from research-exploitation fields of mineral raw materials at the moment. What about the recovery of previously used spears, or research fields? I think, therefore, not those to be approved, but those so far used and abandoned. So they should be rehabilitated, too. Of course, the SDP club will accept in its first reading the proposal for this mining law, with the of course need to perhaps some of these concerns and others presented by some associations and stakeholders, as well as other clubs, in fact with appropriate arguments to apply to the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28446	Thank you, too. The next club is the Croatian Democratic Community club and respected representative Đuro Popijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28447	Mr. President, Deputy. The Mining Act is certainly one of the most economically important laws especially for economic operators dealing with the exploitation and processing of mineral raw materials, but also for society as a whole. Thousands of economic operators and tens of thousands of employees depend on this law. That is why it is important that this law is considered primarily by the profession and then by the economy. However, this law cannot only have a monopoly on administration, state bodies, and it is good that the law began to work within a working group that was appointed in 27.2.2012. However, as the paper looked, it is also seen from the reasons proposed by the members of the task force with the request to withdraw the draft law on mining with the final draft law. We see that there has been some communication with the interested public after that, so that certain actions have already been taken. In fact, here's the law proposed that it go into two readings but here's a recent announcement of quick encounters with that group. But it does not harm and damage, so here to say some fundamental remarks that this profession and the economic public had to say in their work so far. 22 members are appointed to the task force. So, from the Ministry of Economy. Then other bodies of the state administration, the State Attorney's Office, scientific institutions, chambers, Croatian Employers' Association, professional associations and regional self-government. What did they say was done in this task force? They say the sessions were mostly informative without creative work on the provisions of the law, regularity by proposing new and important changes in the content of the law. The draft law by the economic working group was also agreed. So these were mining, economic operators, professional associations, Croatian Mining Engineers' Association, Croatian Oil Engineers' Association and Geologists' Association, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Employers' Association, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, PROMINS' Economic Interest Association has never been the subject of a working group discussion. Regular and comprehensively written competent opinions and proposals of the profession and the mining economy on each version of the law are not generally taken into account, i.e. only in a small part are adopted in the provisions of the law. They mention in the conversation that some members of the state are saying that it is a decisive influence on the final formulation of the provisions of the law according to these claims, that it had the State's Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning whatever that means. Members of the Working Group of the Ministry of Economy for the Construction of the Mining Act, so representatives of HGK, HUP, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, PROMINS, Association of Croatian Mining Engineers and Croatian Association of Oil Engineers and Geologists are limited by the draft law on mining with the final draft law. They point out that the proposed law is not the result of the work group and is not its proposal. However, they consider the proposed law to be unclear, unprofessional, too widespread with provisions that are illegal and even against constitutional and ultimately highly anti-entrepreneurship. We wonder if it is possible, with such dramatic economic indicators, namely these disappointing figures, that the decline of industrial production, especially from -5.6%, could be ignored by the attitude of the economy and the profession and sent this law into the process. In addition to the disputed provisions that certainly have a questionable legal basis, the law is both nomotechnically unregulated and thus unclear and in practice inconclusive. Here are several examples of disputed provisions of the law. It is estimated that some of the provisions are also anti-constitutional. For example, mining projects can only be produced by legal persons in Article 97(1). This provision makes it impossible for natural persons, therefore authorised engineers to carry out their own professional and economic activity equally as well as legal persons, as guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Commercial Companies and the current EU Directive. This provision becomes a groundless provision of Article 174 on the establishment of a Croatian chamber of mining engineers, geology and oil mining. Furthermore, Article 68(3), in the case of an amendment to the legal and sub-legislative rules providing for a cash compensation for the implementation of mining works, a mining economic operator is obliged to pay a cash compensation for the implementation of mining works in accordance with the applicable legal and sub-legal legislation, which will be determined by amending decisions and concession contracts. This provision on mine rent, except that it is extremely non-enterprise and unknown in the mining business world, is also contrary to the provisions of Article 49(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in which the rights acquired by the investment of capital cannot be reduced by law or by other legal act. It's said to be some, and we appreciate the provisions and the inconsistencies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – the decision to conduct a public tender for selecting the most favourable bidder for researching mineral raw materials in order to grant concessions for exploitation can be made for spaces planned for the execution of mining works by means of spatial planning documents. There's been some talk about it before. Article 24. if a natural or legal person submits a proposal for the opening of a public tender in the proposal, it must necessarily indicate or attach a geological or other documentation on the existence of mineral raw material or geological structures suitable for storage and permanent disposal of gases in the proposed investigative space and demonstrate that the proposed space for that purpose is planned by documents of spatial arrangement. Therefore, before the authorisation for the exploration of mineral raw materials or favourable geological storage structures is obtained and before the research determines the existence of mineral raw materials or geological structure, proof that this already exists and that it is in spatial documentation. How's that going to work? It's estimated that some items are highly unprofessional. Therefore, Article 58(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: — the exploitation field of mineral raw materials within the meaning of this law is a restricted part of the land or sea area where the exploitation of mineral raw materials established by the mining authorities must be carried out in accordance with the approved balance sheet reserves of mineral raw materials and the location conditions for the executive location permits of the designated bodies responsible for spatial planning. The exploitation field of mineral raw materials can only be established and restricted by the conduct of research and established mineral raw materials reserves. The local authorisation shall not reduce the established reserves of mineral raw materials, or mineral goods owned by the State. It can only determine the conditions for this operation to take place in the area of the exploitation of mineral raw materials and to take place. The location permit can only define the space within the exploitation field in which an explosion is allowed at a given time. It is estimated that some, as has already been said, are anti-entrepreneurship provisions. Therefore, Article 58(7). – exploitation fields cannot be authorised by the authorising officer for a period of more than 40 years. Article 8 – once the rights of the authorising officer have ceased, the field of exploitation remains as an exploitation field until the mineral raw materials reserves are exhausted and the body responsible for mining can issue a new tender if other conditions are met. The mining entrepreneur invested large financial resources and the mining risk revealed a mineral raw material bed, invested funds in construction of mining facilities and plants, carried out the exploitation of mineral raw materials over ten years. There are oil fields that have been exploited for more than 60 years, quarrys for more than 100 years, salt fields and several centuries. So, with the necessary documentation, it should be possible to extend the duration of the concession over 40 years. Citing the reasons for amending the existing legislative legislator of the law, the introduction of one instead of two public tenders aimed at increasing the safety of entrepreneurs. Here, in practice, it was likely after 2009, that it didn't make sense either, because in these cases it could actually occur in such double competitions, only one subject's bids for exploitation, because he probably did in that time and solved property-legislative relations. And it wasn't a real problem, but we agree it was unnecessary. The right obstacle for entrepreneurs is the ineffectiveness of the administration of regional and local self-government which has not been removed by the law in question and which will remain an obstacle for at least 5 years, and this is also seen in Article 169 until the takeover of competence by the Ministry of Mining. Therefore, the non-transparency of the procedure and the unpredictability of the final outcome of the procedure and will further reject investors and endanger the interests of the Republic of Croatia. The reasoning states that the proposed law limits the lifetime of exploitation and recovery to 40 years. This cannot be read in the proposed law, but that argument suggests that the proposed law allows the interpretation of certain provisions and that it is not uniformly defined. Since we know that there are activities in the Republic of Croatia that have been exploiting mineral raw materials for more than 100 years does this mean that this law wants these activities to be abolished? And, in conclusion, the draft law on mining with the final draft law would be best and should, because of the serious shortcomings, so these observations of professions and economic operators, be withdrawn from the procedure, sit down with them and correct what needs to be corrected of course. It's probably not gonna happen. So we need to believe that this is what's really going to happen until the second reading. Special care should be taken to prepare the Law and to investigate the exploitation of hydrocarbons. It will refer to concessioning for these mineral raw materials i.e. oil, natural gas and gas condensates. The hydrocarbon management will be arranged, the exploration of exploitation in... And second. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the issues of the identification of the hydrocarbon reserves of the design and construction of oil and gas facilities and plants, the implementation of mining oil gas works, professional management, etc. The provisions of the mining law will be in charge. As it comes to our strategic and valuable peaceful raw materials, the legislative framework for the management of these mineral raw materials should have been worked in a way that both laws, therefore mining and hydrocarbons are produced and coordinated simultaneously and also brought at the same time, and certainly in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28448	Thank you, too. We have a single replica reported, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker and the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28449	Well, fellow Drinker, I answered the line for a simple reason to continue what you discussed. So when we look at this law and read it, a man gets the feeling that there are no exploitation fields in Croatia at this time. And it's like there's a huge space opening up in Croatia tomorrow for some new exploitation fields. And perhaps the biggest problem with this law is that it doesn't specify the existing state, because what's worst in this law is, is the existing state you want from the quarry, you want from the gravel, fathers from the series, a series of other things. That there's one total chaos, one total mess. And look here it's not about 10 or 15 licenses, it's about thousands of licenses, and each of us sitting in this high house is going to remember something from his area. And until we solve that problem, we can legally predict what's going to happen tomorrow one way or the other. I was talking on the board about one example, which is Lake Cice to a depth of over 40 meters, nearly three kilometers and a width of 1.5 kilometers. These to use it now, I don't know how much they can't resuscitate it so that the lake will be acceptable tomorrow to this or that in a way. And make sure that the citizens of Velika Gorica have no discussion, no spatial plan will allow any more pebbles in Velika Gorica until the problem of this cave is solved. Although, because of everything that is being built and tomorrow will come to the construction mind again in Croatia, this gravel is very interesting. The Austrians wanted to get a location for digging gravel in Velika Gorica and gravel with wagons to drive to Austria, they have forbidden gravel. And when we solve the problem, the one we have now, then we can tell you how we're going to call tomorrow's exploiting field competitions. We're going to talk about quarryes in Dalmatia, we're going to talk about pebbles down the Drava, we're going to talk about...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28450	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28451	Just one more sentence, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28452	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28453	Are we going to talk about the clay fields where the clay for bricks is dug? Same story everywhere. The local self-government units don't even have this...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28454	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate by the committee clubs. It is now up to the HDSSB Club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28455	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is the fatigue of the material, but here's the Mining Act as someone has already said before me, that it's a very important law, although we, I agree with Mr. Shucker, don't have, I would say that register or list of everything we have, who deals with it and the subjects, the legal entities who deal with it, the ones who died, gave up like that. There are various, in the area, let's say mining, various and legal persons and individuals and everyone who deals, and actually some register we don't have, and we don't have a condition in that, in some list. Once in a feudal age, those who know history and know well that the relative territory of the Republic of Croatia was rich with these mines, mines, etc. We know they came here from the Czech Republic, Germany, etc. miners in our areas, so we see it by the last name which is already here to say integrated into the Croatian Corps. They came too hard for mining. We know that in, the other day we were in that mentioned iron, so we dug zinc, copper, lead and that the first Croatian money was forged Banovac, during Ban Nikola Šubić Zrinski. Yeah, it's the first Croatian money forged in, back in the 15th century. But there are no mines today, no sign of those mines. What we're talking about here today is, above all, problems, and I already think five or six times for this year two days talking about gravel, the inability, the legal inability to exploit gravel from some ecological or I don't know what reasons people on our side of Sava or Drava couldn't, or the Danube, could not, therefore, master gravel because they weren't there, so they didn't have permission or concession, and on the other hand, the people on the other hand were doing it perfectly normal. And then, then, our people from Posavina or Podunov went over, bought our gravel with them and drove it as construction material in the Republic of Croatia. Really, it's weird and funny. This law, which has 176 articles and a series of items, is like the ones I listen to in the European Parliament, which I would really say over-regulate and over-regulate matter. I think that in the desire that, and this law was passed in that desire to encourage, so investment and something, some kind of economy, and even mining. And that's why over-noding or legal reregulation is actually, it bothers and there's there, I really am, although the fatigue of the material is in these late hours, but I tried to read, so I need to get pretty focused to figure out.... /. All these items that are or I'm not from that profession, maybe I'm not, I'm not going to dig anything. I don't have a firm maybe and my interest isn't in that sense this one. According to the speaker who spoke before me, this law, and we will hear it from the assistant minister, says the Mining Act is not in line with the Law on concessions and Article 8, although in the opening section it says that the current legal framework governing mining in the Republic of Croatia is in line with the EU acquis and the Law on concessions. Now, I don't know what kind of misunderstanding that is within the meaning of Article 8, my colleague has already exposed it, so here I am, it's good to have two readings, if that's what we can do, we have time and that thing right. In the County of Brodo-Posavia, which is other than the Sava River, I will not appear to say in any other sense that mining is worthless in the sense that we have nothing else, any other mineral wealth, so other than gravel and sand that rolled the Sava River, I must say here to the few that there may be a great maybe in Europe the largest bed of calcite and it is in the Ministry of Economy of Mining leadership in those maps marked as a pect, a special value. Unfortunately, in addition to all the gaps that existed after the concession contest, there has not yet begun the exploitation of this calcite at the site of the Youth Guide, although there is a concession issued after a great period and even threats to the court, etc., there have been some complications, some flexibility in the context of obtaining a concession. Unfortunately, this calcium calcite, a stone from which the acidity of the land can be improved and even for the production of livestock food can be served, still lies as a mineral treasure in the area of the Brod-Posavina County and has it in the area of Požega-Slavon County, from it was once roasted and they were rogers and people were dealing with it, living, earning, feeding and schooling their children. Unfortunately, the end of Brod-Posavina, which is called the Opening End, the Mountain End, is completely dead because such activities are no more. Whether this law or whether we're all going to resuscitate investment in all economic branches, and even in mining, will help this neighborhood that's almost dead, which is part of the Brod-Posavina County, I'd like it to work. So you yourself from the Ministry said in the opening statement that you would go in two readings and that you would talk to interested and groups and everyone in society again. I expect that in the second reading we will have I would say one clearer, perhaps less widespread but more concise law that will encourage and invest in mining and that Croatia will live again in this branch of the economy as Mr Shucker said, so finally, in that branch of the economy, we will go, which is currently in one, I would say, a poor situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28456	Thank you very much. Thank you, Your Honor. We have exhausted the list of registered clubs of representatives in the Croatian Assembly to discuss this topic. We're moving on to an individual debate for ten minutes. The first in line is Honorable Representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28457	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be as short as I promised the ministry representatives. First one general remark from people who are men of the profession that the existing law that is currently in effect is bad but that this one is no better and that this one has a lot of failures and failures, among other things, was, one of their remarks is that the people who participated in making a proposal for a new law that they were surprised with this text that it doesn't correspond at all to what they were working on. Since this isn't even a fairly familiar area to me, I'm going to use a little more paper. The first comment is from the University of Zagreb University of Meteorology, which is based in Sisak, which finds that the Faculty of Meteorology in Croatia is the only university in Croatia, mining and metallurgy are closely connected, the processing and use of mineral components of process metallurgy, and therefore also part of the scientific and scientific research work at the Meteorology Faculty, so they believe that they were in this part where these institutions were numbered where, among other things, the Mining and Geological Faculty, the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, the Croatian Geological Institute considered that they had seats in that section. Another observation from people who are already working, not now, but by the long-term exploitation that the new law provides that they must have an employee professional in full-time. Since it is a family business, i.e. in particular I think it is some quarry in Metkovec, the continued employment of a professional will put them on extra financial charge, which will practically put the whole business at risk. And the third remark applies if you may be wrong about what I say you'll understand me because it's closer to you in order for someone to do research to be on a spatial basis. And in order to be in a spatial plan, he has to give evidence that there's something there. Now we've come into a closed circle that someone will prove that something exists and is included in the spatial plan, and at the same time they can't do research because it's not included in the spatial plan. I kept my promise to be brief, I was really short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28458	Thank you, Your Honor. A fellow respected representative, Igor Radjenovic, is on the job. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28459	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I will try to trace my predecessor to my colleague Novak, indeed in the shortest lines, perhaps more as Chairman of the Chairman of the Committee on Economy than on some personal behalf. In this regard, rather a quality discussion was presented by SDP’s president, so my colleague Rilje, in the introduction, so I would not talk too much about content. What has been unusual to me and as a new man in this House, and it has not happened, although we have been here for a year now, so far, that there has been such a sharp reaction as the response has been filled with e-mails, memos to the Parliament about the bill itself and the motion to withdraw. There was a lot of unusual tone here, yesterday we were with representatives and the Chamber of Commerce and the HUP, all of them in a way indirectly apologized for the rather unusually rough content of these memos, which actually proves that it was a very important law, a law that apparently tangs many and where there are many intertwined interests and that there are obviously many today that there are many riots in this area and in the implementation and control of that law. And that is why it is a good decision by the Croatian Government to propose to withdraw the procedure in the sense that this law should be passed in one reading, we have already decided on the proposal of the Croatian Government for two readings and in this area, but I also say in the tightly bound areas there have been speeches and the proposal for the law on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to be adopted as soon as possible in this House and we have been promised to go within a few weeks, so maybe even to this session if not to the next one. It is good to discuss these laws, since it obviously requires a lot of state planning. The shortest positive effects of this law, the positive shifts in relation to the existing single procedure to grant a concession, a public tender unlike the previous longer procedure, a limited age of exploitation, so far it has been a much different, more effective control of the exploited quantities of mineral raw materials and the payment of concession fees, that is what has always promoted us and these fees may be at some general level big but since in the good part of local self-government revenues my predecessors have said well my predecessors could not be much more significant revenue. It is therefore provided through solutions to this law through a guarantee for the costs of recovery, and a procedure for the recovery of space in special situations and for specific cases of exploitation is also discussed, so sea salt, gravel, what is particularly important is the disposal of CO2 gas, etc. There are a lot of open questions, there is a lot of especially fellow Tušak if I am not mistaken, and my colleague Popijac explained these proposals in detail, which came from a group of stakeholders on that side. The members of the Economic Committee have received quite a quality, I say I am not far from the profession of this area, but it seems to me a lot of quality answers to the most important part of the objection to this law. So what's good is there's obviously intertwined interests and it's all legitimate. It's good to go in two readings, it's good that a new meeting of all interested if I'm not mistaken but for tomorrow's appointment and a good time to hear all the arguments and to say this bill absolutely necessary law to repair that law until the second reading... But not only do I end my debate here and there, as all the laws Croatia is one of the most normal countries in the environment, so I dare say much more widely in Europe and the world, the problem of the Republic of Croatia is the implementation of these laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this area, there is a big problem implementing these laws. I hope that the clearer, more precise, more detailed norms and the far greater will of law enforcement will result in a much, much less mess in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28460	Thank you too, dear colleague. It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Caine. He's losing his right to debate and this agenda point. Next up is the esteemed representative of Branko Box. He's got it, he's got it. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28461	I thank you, Mr. President. That's what I'm like. First of all, I'm sorry we're having such an important conversation at 8:00 p.m. The best quality, that's what you say. [[attack: Top quality today.]] And we're somewhere around 10% of the total number of elected MPs. I will first start with praises, so I will commend it only in this segment of this law because it has united the basis of one competition we have a choice for research fields, for exploitation fields and for concession. And the rest I wouldn't exactly brag about. Here I will start with Article 6 which talks about the adoption of a strategy with the management of mineral raw materials, which should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Croatian Government, and it is not spoken within what time we should bring that strategy. Furthermore, in Article 8, we are talking about competent authorities. The architectural stone is treated by the competent ministry, meaning it is the Ministry of Economy, and the technical stone is treated by the Office of State Administration. I don't see that difference. Although it was also in the current law, I think that one body should cover both types of stone, regardless of what it was, whether the Ministry of Economy or the Office of State Administration. Furthermore, Article 20 refers to obstacles to the exercise of rights and states under which conditions the right cannot be exercised, meaning when non-payment of debt with grounds of public administration, with the basis of unpaid fees for research or exploitation of mineral raw materials, etc., that I do not quote the full first item, but does not specify the income of local self-government, that is, the compensation for the occupied area. I don't know whether it's intentional or not, given the ministry's proposal to the government, and the government's parliament's bill. Then I guess that's because it's not the revenue of the state budget but of the local self-government, and I think it's very important to stress it means that whoever's due on behalf of the busy area fee can't get the right to a concession either. Furthermore, Article 23 refers to the conduct of a public tender and is said in paragraph 1: A decision on the conduct of a public tender for the selection of the most favourable bidder for research on mineral raw materials may be made to grant a concession for exploitation. So it's not about the implications, but it can be brought in for spaces that are planned for the implementation of mining projects, and Article 24 paragraph 7 shows evidence that the proposed investigative space for that purpose is planned by the documents of the space of the arrangement. So this is in collegiate with each other, so Article 24 of the Implicite requires that an excerpt be made from space-planned documentation, and in the preceding Article 23(1), it can, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't mean either. If he can, then it can be interpreted widely of course. In addition, Article 33 of the criteria for selecting the most favourable bidder in paragraph 2 discusses the offered cash compensation for the implementation of mining works. This reminds me of today's debate on the Committee on Agriculture where the economic programme is scored with 60 points of possible 100 and one who has more money will offer a better economic programme and will be in a position to come and exploit the stone. I'm speaking my position, so for the exploitation of the Bankstone, you don't have the need for technique, you only have muscles, hack, sledgehammer and wedge, nothing else. The professional and financial capacity of the applicant to perform mining works in the collation is, in my opinion, one with the other. Next, Article 40 discusses the solution and approval for research on mineral raw materials. In paragraph 2, the successful tenderer is obliged to forward the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to the authority responsible for mining the appointment of the responsible manager of the mining work, to settle the costs of the public tender and to provide a guarantee for the costs of recovery of the investigative space. In the opening part, you yourself said on page 2 for documentation that you needed to spend from 1 to 10 million kuna. For the paperwork. Behind that, you're looking for a bail guarantee. I said, I'm talking about my case, about the Bankstone, meaning for the muscles and the three elemental tools, it's a hack or a vasklin, a mall and a wedge, you're asking for more guarantees from the recovery bank before the man starts to deal with the exploitation of the recovery stone. In my opinion, once again in college, the man who wants to deal with the exploitation of the stone will not be rich, do not be afraid, surely. In addition, Article 57 discusses the record of the reserve of mineral raw materials. In paragraph 1, the mining economic operator is obliged to keep records of mineral raw materials reserves and to submit data on mineral raw materials reserves to the Ministry of Mining by 15 March. In Article 52, you say that in paragraph 2 a mining economic operator is required every five years from the date of obtaining a solution to confirm the quantity and quality of the reserve of mineral raw materials to submit to the Commission for the determination of the reserves of mineral raw materials data and documentation on the reserves of mineral raw materials. So I'm back in college with each other. Every year until January 15th, he provides you with information on the reserves, and you are asking again to submit that information to the Commission every five years. Well, I guess it's the same body or the same body, same ministry. Furthermore, Article 63 of the law and obligations of the authorising officer of the exploitation field paragraph 3 if the mining economic operator has not concluded a concession contract with the mining authority within the time limit of the main mining project and the settlement of property-legal relations for land particles within the exploitation field, within the meaning of Article 63 of the law and obligations of the authorising officer of the exploitation field. How do you as a proposer guarantee that whoever deals with the exploitation of the stone and who legally does it and in time submits a request for extension of the concession guarantee that you will not be the culprits why he did not get an extension in time, and not him himself. I'm telling you from practice, Mr. Krasic, you know what I'm talking about. So, you have the subjects who applied for the extension of the concession in time, but unfortunately because of the lengthy and complicated procedure, they came into the position that they had to either deal illegally with the exploitation of the stone or did not deal at all with the exploitation of the stone. So, not by mistake, but by the complicated procedure that someone has imposed. Article 68 speaks of a fee for the execution of mining works, and says that a mining economic operator is obliged to pay cash compensation for the execution of mining works in the field of investigation and in the exploitation field of mineral raw materials in the manner laid down by this law. In paragraph 5, it is said: "The Ministry of Mining is obliged to regularly monitor the payment of financial compensation for the execution of mining works, and to monitor the payment of financial compensation for the execution of mining works for mineral raw materials referred to in Article 5(3) of this Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I sent a memo a few days ago. I have a total of 34 legal entities and debts from 2010 to the city of Benkovec of 2.6 million kuna. So that must change. So, as units of local self-government, we can't run any procedures to collect it. The IRS says I'm not in charge of that. We're sending you the memos. Except for the charts on who's in charge of how much of that we don't have. Please change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28462	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker, next debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28463	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. So I'll start here where my colleague Box stopped. Perhaps the greatest lack of this law is that, in its opening part, in general and in my opinion, insufficiently accepts the existing state. Because the existing law isn't as super bad as bad. A fellow Box said only one small example and that a little more realistically looked at the existing state I think would come up with a better starting basis for making a new law. Because if we take it logical that a country has an economic, actually mining wealth, that they have certain stakeholders who want to exploit it, the logical thing is that units of local self-government and state benefit from it. And if we stick to these basic principles by accepting everything that's good and bad in the current state, I think this law would look a little different. And I'm not at all surprised by the very fierce rhetoric of various different interest groups, because the logical thing is that some in as simple as possible, the easier they want to come into a position that they can deal with a particular activity that, with the launch of certain construction primarily, brings purely decent profit. Now, why are we talking about an existing state? If we wanted to admit to ourselves what was bad in the past, maybe this law would look a little different. I think he's out of control and overcomplicated. Because to use the experiences of the past by bad, to define by this law how many bad things at this point that we have to solve in the area of exploitation in the Republic of Croatia because we simply have to solve them. We can't work these existing ones in one way and all those who will get some kind of exploitation field in the future will hit high standards and conditions under which they will exploit how they should resuscitate that area. And we can now go from article to article, we can, as the colleagues here have spoken each and every one of their fields say that this or that is not right. However, what is clear is that the tender procedure should exist. So that's something that's not controversial. And what was contentious and controversial in that old law, I think it's now been regulated about research and exploitation work. But the key thing in this whole thing is how much of it benefits the state and how much of it is benefited by local self-government units. Because look, it doesn't make sense if you have a seine that's been taken out of every year, you can say hundreds of thousands of cc's or a few million cc's of gravel, that the local self-government unit has income of several hundred thousand kunas. It's illogical if what my colleague Box said about Benkovec you have so much and so much quarry that the town of Benkovac has no use for it. And if we don't define it, and we don't make this bill, basically we haven't done anything again, we haven't done anything. And that's the key to everything. We can standard as much as we want, but if we don't define how the exploitation field is going to be rehabilitated and how it has to be resolved in phases because if someone's exploiting 20 or 30 years something, and he hasn't recovered any part of that exploitation field in the last ten years, he simply won't have enough resources to resuscitate that exploitation field. That's the first thing. Whether it's a pebble or it's a quarry or something else. So that's what needs to be defined. With the exploitation of such fields since the detonation, since the explosions, people have suffered damage to their homes, roads being destroyed. Today we had an entire morning debate about the new Roads Act. Who will resuscitate those roads if some small municipality, unfortunately such exploitation fields are in such small municipalities getting a few tens of thousands of kuna mining fees for all this expensive, destroying its roads, destroying all its living. And what is true then is this law to that municipality or to that head of the municipality or the mayor who norms everything alive, but in principle, in practice, none of it is of any use. Maybe someone's got some kind of personal benefit. And that's why this law is bad, and that's why this law has to be worked on by second reading. Because if you're going to standardize in detail how you're going to conduct a public tender, then we have the Public Procurement Act that has existed for years and Croatia already has thanks to God through those years and positive and negative experiences regarding the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. But what we've had for years, and we can't do, which is that someone has the benefit of that exploitation, not just the one who digs there. What benefits local self-government units had from those huge quarrys and pebbles when, for example, in 2002 to 2007, by 2008, there was an explosion of road construction in the Republic of Croatia, when millions of cubics of stone were crushed, pebbles were extracted and implanted into roads. Did any of the local self-government units get any of that? Is it regulated if the company digs, has a dig for the road and then itself or re-installs it in the road, how is it treated? Don't talk about loans or how you said it. 'Cause look at him neatly in his account, which turns out to be an investor, charges that crib he practically didn't do anything, just dug up, grinded and brought back and rolled. But he charged neatly, so maybe he wrote that he was driving that rock at 10, 20 km away. So the state practically charged it three times. On the one hand, units of local self-government and state did not get anything to use this mining wealth, and on the other hand someone who invested in that road paid for that stone gravel. And now, given that I have little time left, I will remain in this area around the City of Zagreb. Practically from the town of Samobor all the way down to Long Village and my Great Gorica, so on the left and right, as soon as you bury a little, you have the gravel that's in the story. The whole of Zagreb is made of this gravel, all the roads, all the living is practically made of these excavations. Some seines are buried, some are unfortunately left with frogs today, and these more modern as the funds and techniques progressed for as deep as possible is the question of what will be of them tomorrow. What does a lake with a depth of 40 or 50 meters mean? There's no trimming coast, no practically flora or fauna at all. Is that, uh, I'm sorry there's no colleague Holly here, is that maybe some kind of ecological bomb tomorrow? Does that even change the microclimate? Because so much water in one space is certain to change the microclimate. However, whoever exploited it all moves from there together and is not there tomorrow. I guarantee that those who are exploiting Lake Chichea at this time will not know how much they can't raise enough money to take care of the coast and that the lake translated tomorrow is some kind of lake that will benefit the citizens not only of the Great Gorica but also of the surrounding area. I'm talking about an example I know about as well as it is. And you can find that example with Drava as much as you want and you have a gravel man. This law does not regulate and it is a key problem. What about later? No, it doesn't. What about later? Because when you ride the highway now towards Split, you still have a suitcase full of some quarryes that have stayed on the side and are working. You also have examples of where these quarrys have been removed and where, in practice, after a few years, almost no longer notice that the quarry was there. This is an example of how to resuscitate something when nature takes what is its, so eventually serve it as if it doesn't seem so. Well, colleagues and colleagues, that's something this law needs, which should be regulated by this law for reasons that in the past 10, 20 years, but in the past 50, 60 years, unfortunately, this problem has not been solved. You'll go seashore and wherever you want. And when you make one of these abominable laws with 176 articles that doesn't regulate elemental things, then we'll have a mess and chaos again like we have right now. I'll tell you colleagues and colleagues while I was in the Zagreb County's undercapital with special forces we hunted those who steal gravel here along the Sava coast. They've never been able to put an end to it. There's no one against exploiting gravel, but let them pay the state, the local self-government unit, what they need to pay for and sell it neatly, and let them make as much money as they make. After all, everyone wants to do economic activity to earn something, not lose something. And it should be regulated by this law, I repeat for the third time, because if it is not regulated unfortunately, the law will not solve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28464	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28465	I thank you, Mr. President. So fellow Shuker article 5 speaks about what kinds of mineral raw materials these are, and says item 3. Among other things, the technical building stone, and item 4 of the architectural building stone. As for architectural in my Zadar County, 95% are located in my unit of local self-government, and technically about 80% of the entire county. In that period that you mentioned, you know how long we had, in the name of, or income, in the name of the compensation for the exploited, exploited stone dish, less than 100,000 kuna. And before I mentioned that it was 34 legal entities, 34 legal entities did. One more thing I forgot to say earlier, related to Article 142 of the investigative space situation map, it is also an additional, additional imposition, so I would express myself, to people who want to deal with the exploitation of stone where, so mining, economic operators are obliged at least once a year to make a situation map besides those reserves that we mentioned earlier. So someone who deals with drawing will have to work every year, and there is not much of them in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28466	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28467	Yes, you're right, colleague Kutle. We administratively burden those who work and who produce, while paying too little attention to the legality of the whole business. And legality, about the legality of the whole business is the best confirmation when you said how much the town of Benkovac has charged over the past years from the exploitation of the stone. And we can take dozens of municipalities and cities in northern Croatia as much as, this one is charged from the exploitation of gravel or if we move to Slavonia how much they have charged from the exploitation of clay for this, for bricks and where to produce a scrap. And that is the key problem of this law and that is that this law needs to be resolved for the future, but it also solves the problems of the past. Because be assured that there are too many exploitation fields, in the future there won't be so many exploitation fields that it would be financially so lucrative, and those from past periods that have been taught to work in quite a mess, and the logical thing to do at the moment is to complain that this law is bad, because the law in a certain way puts some things in order.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28468	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Nada Turina-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28469	Here's my colleague Shuker encouraged me to do this replica because in one part he's right, and we also had a debate at our club about how to solve the recovery, the recovery of the quarry or the gravel, what Mr. Shuker said. Since the most common phenomenon is that after a certain time of exploitation, unfortunately these spaces remain devastated. And I think in that sense we should work. One of the proposals that opened up in the discussion that I wanted to say here, so I answered the line, was the idea that it meant a committed concessionaire to put through the selling price of what he was extracting and using, to install a certain percentage that he was then obliged to invest. If it's going to be a fund, it might be a unit of local self-government where it's used for the sole purpose of resuscitating the area that's under concession. Here, thank you for causing this in the discussion because, here, I had to say that in favour of the discussion here's the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28470	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28471	Yes, colleague, I agree fully with you. Because if they were to be forced to set aside continuous funds for recovery, then they would also be careful how they exploit. To make exploitation by the rules of the profession for reasons that their recovery would be cheaper tomorrow. But since no one is forcing them to isolate any means of recovery, since during the exploitation, no one is forcing them to resuscitate, they maximumly exploit this site and the logical thing if you exploit it beyond all the rules, regardless of whether it's a pebble, so you have one vertical virtual cob up to a few dozen feet into the depths, or it's a quarry, so you dig it, you're actually breaking past the rules. Then the logical thing is that the recovery is terribly expensive. But if you're exploiting the rules of the profession, if someone controls you once a year, and you're doing it regularly, and you're paying for it, make sure there won't be a lot of devasted space. For at the end of every one of them is in his pocket, and as soon as you hit him in the pocket, then it is known to behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28472	Thank you very much. There is an individual debate on the part of the respected representative, Željko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28473	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate. Obviously, this law has fallen into something, though, has this controversy not yet been in this assembly for, in this term of office. Unconstitutional, unconstitutional, anti-enterprise law. And finally, fellow Shuker said, this law will sort of put this issue in order. I'd just started this way. This law, however, puts this issue in order in some way. Right at the beginning, I'm glad this law goes into two readings, because obviously this debate that's being held today is also needed. A fellow Boxtee and fellow Shucker apparently read the law and were just saying, the only ones who mentioned the interests of the state and the interests of the local self-government unit. I can't help but think that some have read the request to withdraw the draft Mining Law bill with the final bill that came from the stakeholders and the Maltas have not quoted you from word to word, they haven't even tried to change the order of words written in what we all got on boards, so I got it as vice president of the Environmental Protection Committee. So that, too, is saying something. I'm glad the Deputy Minister said tomorrow's session will be reunited with all the interested and that in the second reading we'll get the quality of this law on benches. However, in my view, it is important to praise the important newspapers introduced by the proposed law in the field of mining, in particular in relation to the prescribed procedure for the award of concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the introduction of a public tender for the approval of research on mineral raw materials or the award of a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the procedure for the recovery of space. We've even had three open tenders if I'm not mistaken, and now everything in the opening of one contest is going down, and I think it's still something simpler documentation, so the way to go and it should be better control. And this better control is the key to the whole story because fellow Shucker said that chaos in this work is especially what, total chaos and total disorder especially as regards these quarrys but the question is who is responsible for this situation. For doing competent inspections and for protecting these people who illegally exploited the mineral wealth of the Republic of Croatia. There wasn't a word about it here today. Is that weird or isn't it? I think so. And since one of these articles, two different top experts, university professors, are being treated, I will read one thing: “In Article 58. Article 8. which states: “After the rights of the authorising officer have ceased, this exploitation field remains as an exploitation field until the mineral raw materials reserves are exhausted and the body responsible for mining can be opened a new tender if other conditions are met and two and four years are granted, two top professors." One says the mining entrepreneur has invested large financial resources and, with the mining risk, discovered the deposit of mineral raw materials, invested funds in the construction of mining facilities and plants carry out the exploitation of mineral raw materials over ten years and says there are oil fields that have been exploited for more than 60 years by quarryes, some colleagues have read so that, with the necessary documentation of the same duration of the concession and over 40 years. And the second one says in the same article here it should be taken into account that a significant number of exploitation fields in protected areas of nature, e.g. The Parks of Nature Papuk, Učka, Medvednica, Velebit, so the launch of new competitions is not acceptable to preserve the management of such areas where management documents of these areas, management plan, spatial plan, special features foresee the termination of exploitation at the end of the current concession and then the appropriate recovery or re-use. Two top professors from different universities comment on the draft article of this law. Therefore, I think that the ministry has done a good job and that a lot of work has been put into the making of this law, and my colleague Boro Grubisic said that it seems to him to be some kind of law that has been passed in the European Parliament, and I find it a compliment to you, and it is strange that when we pass such a law that we say that it is too complicated and pretentious because if it is pretentious, it means that we can't fool anything anymore. So if he's too sensitive, then there's no more bullshit and that can be a problem. What I would ask the Proposer to draw attention to some deadlines proposed by this law, we are talking about those five years, 18 days from now not to go into the details of the law of Article 84, etc., to try here at tomorrow's meeting and to propose this law in a second reading to try to find some balance, to be really objective deadlines that are in line with the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28474	Thank you, too. There's a single replica reported. Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28475	Yeah, well, I wanted my colleague Kolara politely, and he said that we're saying that he's out of control and that he's too complicated, so he is. I don't know I haven't seen in any law so far that on four pages one article is. Is that okay? One article that's on page 4A. The second thing, when I spoke and in my discussion, then we lack that part of the basic that there is no this strategy of managing mineral raw materials in Croatia. Why don't we have that? If we had that strategy, we would probably be able to discuss this law more easily today and finally make it clear that the profession should say the most of our words when it comes to the law and we are MPs here to listen to this profession and to base these professions and decide and raise our hand how we will vote the law because if we don't listen to the profession, then I'm afraid we'll make the wrong law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28476	And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28477	Thank you very much. The waist is ahead of us. The promoter is a profession, these are all very professional people who professionally carry out their work, no one in the Ministry in those positions is sitting down that he is not professional in his own form. So if we're talking about the profession itself. Today we had one road law, there was only one article, and then there was a cry about why it was just this one article and then there was a cry about why it was just this one article. I think it's better if one article has to explain in detail that it's written on seven pages than it's written on three lines and it's unclear. Whether there is a law 176 pages, 234 or 42 depending on what kind of problem he is dealing with and what we want to achieve with him. We are constantly complaining that the law has been passed without being clear. Now that we want to clarify it, the detailed explanation is now wrong again. We need to determine what we want and what criteria we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28478	Thank you very much. Let's go forward. Now it is up to the respected representative Mario Moharic for ten minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28479	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with an associate. Here at the end of this debate today, I think we can conclude that the government has well assessed what this law is doing in two readings. I would not refer to the examples already mentioned but would have cited several of my remarks, it seems to me to me on several articles that I have not heard today. I would therefore say that Article 17, which prescribes the deadlines laid down in Article 34, 40 and 62, is the time limit within which the Ministry of Mining must be drawn up and submitted for the verification of the idea of the mining project for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and the time limit within which a local authorisation must be submitted to the authority responsible for mining is 60 months. An idea mining project is developed as an expert basis for assessing the acceptability of the environmental network procedures. The development of an impact study on the environment of the mining operation and the establishment of a local authorisation within the prescribed period of 3 months of the idea project cannot be developed. However, the outcome of a solution to the acceptability of environmental and natural exploitation procedures and subsequent location permits within the prescribed period of 9 months cannot be implemented. According to the Environmental Protection Act, the process of assessing the impact of the procedure on the environment has been carried out prior to the issue of the local authorisation, we have shown that the process of environmental impact assessment at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature takes at best 9 months to a year. The process itself of issuing the location permit for the exploitation field at the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction takes six months. I propose a review of the deadlines set out in Article 17 or an extension of the time limit for the entry of the local authorisation because it is impossible to carry out within 9 months. If the interpretation of the deadlines is different, please indicate that. As regards Article 169, the Commission considers that the measures Proposal for a law prescribed by the competent ministry to assume jurisdiction from the Office of State Administration, the county shall be suspended in five years, and I suggest that the time limit of the takeover be reduced to a maximum of 2 to 3 years, given the complexity of the implementation of the Mining Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28480	Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28481	I thank you, Mr. President. Here is my colleague Moharic talking about the deadlines for the documentation, and I would ask him and myself, as well as the promoters also related to Article 86 of the talks on dealing with mining documentation in case the exploitation is stopped. So it's said that whoever pays for the paperwork if he stops dealing with the exploitation I have to return that same documentation to the state. So I paid for that paperwork, I quit exploiting the stone, and I have to return it to my RH. I don't think it's in accordance with the Constitution. And yet I'm setting up another reading, is this same country going to refund me or anyone else who's involved in the exploitation, or who's been involved in the exploitation, spent funds for the same documentation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28482	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of respondents to the debate and the replicas. Final word? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Minister of Economy Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28483	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, in the shortest really shortest lines, one thanks you for how someone has already qualified the most positive or most qualitative debate today, but otherwise really for a simple debate that went in the direction of improving what regulates something that we have in some natural way is our natural wealth. Therefore, each of us is interested in having this law normised enough, not to be aloof, or simply because it is our natural resources that nothing is left to the free interpretation of any legal provision. Since this is the case, and since we have also heard that, for example, units of local self-government where individual beds are low income from concessions for the exploitation of such goods, we can, for example, during the second reading, open up the issue of increases in that fee itself. She's today I'm thinking about 5% after a long time she rose from 2.5% to 5%. There it took at least a decade to raise the fee for those 2.5%, for example, to open a fee debate at 10%. This will, in part, increase the income of all units of local self-government where these beds are located in a large part with the discipline of paying for concessionaries. By trying really in the shortest lines, I would like to thank MP Kolar, who may be the context of what you have all received as information, especially some committees put in one segment or put it on the trail of that one volume. Representative Radjenovic put it in a context of intertwined interests. Of course, any interest is legitimate, however, does not mean that it is more legitimate because the volume of volume expressed is more or less right. Commissioner Kolar himself cited the example of two university professors who have two different expert interpretations of an article's proposal in the law. So when we ask what the profession says, I return the question, I don't know which profession of two identical professions about the same matter in two different ways. I'm the least expert in mining, it's absolutely clear to everyone, but here's one natural question about your profession. Another short thing, the Strategy for the Management of Mineral Raw materials was mentioned. In fact, we have had it since 2009, the Assembly adopted it in 2010 and it is worth until 2030. Of course, due to changes as well as natural circumstances, due to changes in the market for economic circumstances it can change, but Croatia has it. Croatia has also had a map of mineral raw materials made by the Croatian Geological Institute since 2005 and this is important for understanding the context relating to the submission of concession applications according to spatial plans, so these spatial plans first and fundamentally take into account the map of mineral raw materials. And I'd just like to remind you that since 2009, we've been able to think in advance of 66% of the space, the possibility of finding out according to spatial plans where mineral raw materials are located that we're thinking about applying to exploitation. Since 2013, I believe, I hope I don't make any mistakes, but we're going into a state spatial plan that's actually going to sum up the context of mineral raw materials in this state spatial plan of exactly the location of these beds. There's still a few details, a series of these details we'll be discussing tomorrow with stakeholders that you've verbalized more or less, whose remarks are more or less verbalized through the debate. We will try to improve the text on the basis of today's debate, certainly improve it, not in that technical, nomotechnical sense, but having a primary goal in mind, therefore, to significantly improve the text for another reading, but I cannot guarantee that tomorrow's meeting or some of the next meetings to another reading with stakeholders. So, starting from this example, the same profession in different ways about the same thing, that we will absolutely agree on everything because again quoting someone else, our interests are different, or our interests are also intertwined, and it doesn't mean that just because we have an interest that we're automatically right. Here is the conclusion, having little in the head picture of specialists running along the Sava, I believe that in the second reading of course that image will not in this way be standardised but methods, sanctions for non-compliance and in this case, and also in this law based on everything that you have individually touched in your discussions in areas where you come and based on the experience you have, sanctions and respect for this law is absolutely necessary. Here I thank you once again, thank you, of course, for the debate and we will have the opportunity to discuss this law again in the second reading. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28484	Thank you, too. We have reports of replicas. The first replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28485	I didn't mean to pick up, but Madam Secretary of State laughed at a pretty serious thing, because it's obvious to me now that you're not aware of the problem of exploiting gravel. No offense, Madam Secretary of State, but what happens next to Sava and what happens next to Drava is something that simply has to be prevented. And if you drove along the Sava trough so you could see how many wooden digs there are, your colleague knows it very well because he's been in this business for a long time and he's been expansioning in the '90s and road construction and housing, then believe me, the special forces have been hunting these who illegally dig gravel overnight. In the morning you just find a hole, there's no machines, there's nothing, and that's the living truth. I said that the existing law has solved something, but if the future law doesn't solve the existing situation and we don't solve these problems again we won't have anything, because at this point you have several thousand exploitation fields, whether it's gravel, whether it's stone, whether it's clay. Also, we have another big wave of road construction waiting for us in Dalmatia, they clearly need to be defined during road construction. If we're going to watch, I'm going to stick to that law where I'm at home, the VAT Act, then that dig must be placed on the dump, and he must clearly have his tax status, and then he has other statuses. And if we were to stick to it and regulate it in the Mining Act, then we wouldn't have a problem, and you'd have a lot of digs, if you had nothing else, a hummus that's used again for urban surfaces. There is no such thing as to dig up from the mother of the earth, and no one can benefit from it, and it should be regulated in law. So I was talking in that context.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28486	Thank you very much. Does the Deputy Minister want a replica? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28487	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, at one point in her presentation, the deputy minister said that every interest is legitimate. I think it was a mistake, it might have come out of your system, but not all interests are legitimate, not even in this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28488	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica. We've completed the list of respondents to the debate and the replicas. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm closing the debate. Next is the proposal of the Mining Act, first reading, PZE No. 249. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a Mining Act, 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 85 for, 28 against and 10 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28491	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here, after more than 10 years of application of the Defence Act, which has experienced self-defined novels, the Government of the Republic of Croatia comes before this House of Commons with a new Proposal for a Law on Defence. While the current Defence Act came after the constitutional changes in 2000 and 2001, which marked the abandonment of the semi-presidential model of power, it was in fact a kind of compromise between constitutional holders of the defence function by the new legislative proposal to move towards a new modern defence concept and its conceptual and institutional positioning through several key directions. In the new bill, the defence is considered both as a state function and as an area of action of different holders, not as before as it was a defence system. The new geopolitical reality and the international position of the Republic of Croatia are also respected, and the defence is seen in the context of NATO membership, and we believe in the European Union soon. There are assumptions that the state is functioning within the concept of collective defence. In the area of defence management, simpler and more consistent models are established, clearer division of competences, avoidance of their overlap with moderate movement towards the parliamentary system, of course, while respecting the constitutional position of the President of the Republic as Supreme Commander. It also fully regulates the activities of the Armed Forces in the new circumstances of the application of Article 7 of the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010, and membership in the NATO Alliance and the future in the European Union, and prescribes their action outside the borders of the country in peace support operations, crisis response operations, humanitarian missions, and for the first time regulates the delegation of powers of command and control over the commands of international forces to international forces, the new staff structure and their status are verified. As regards the Armed Forces, in addition to their fundamental role in the protection of sovereignty and independence and the defence of its territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, the armed forces' tasks remain to participate in peace support operations, crisis response operations, humanitarian missions and other activities abroad. Then providing assistance in defences to States allies in the event of an armed attack on one or more of them in accordance with concluded international agreements. Participation also in the EU's joint efforts in the spirit of solidarity if one member is exposed to a terrorist attack or becomes a victim of natural and human activity caused by disaster. And fourthly, it is aid to the institutions of civil authorities, protection and rescue organisations, and to the population in the event of disasters, major accidents and accidents in search and rescue, as well as the transport of injured and ill. The proposed legal text also regulates the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff in the area of defence. The Croatian Parliament, as it has decided so far, has decided on war and peace, and has exercised civil oversight over the Armed Forces. It decides on the amount and structure of the funds needed to finance the defence through the state budget, adopts a long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, which I believe will also be in this High House by the end of this year as well as an annual defence report and brings forward a defence strategy and identifies foreign direct threats. It also takes a decision to refer recruits to military service, to decide on the activities of the Armed Forces outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia through various modalities which are recognised in the new draft law, and to take the decision to refer requests for assistance to the defence of the Republic of Croatia to the allies. The President of the Republic under the Constitution is the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, and his responsibilities are also prescribed by this law. As you unfortunately had opportunities to read in the media at the end of last year, inscriptions appeared on how this bill to the President of the Republic took some of the powers and powers of him. However, we are responsible for stressing that the proposed law prescribes and elaborated powers of the president in line with the amendments to the Constitution and the changes that have taken place in the course of reforms and the transformation of the Armed Forces. The paper was introduced that the President of the Republic appointed military commanders on the duty of brigade and general, i.e. the Admiral, and this change is reflected in the fact that now it is the military commanders because the Constitution itself says that the President of the Republic has appointed and resolved military commanders in accordance with the Constitution and that the law has adapted to that category so that it has explicitly defined who are military commanders, and not as it has been so far to appoint all officers in the orderly places of the Brigadier or General and Admiral. The President of the Republic also received the authority to prescribe the peacetime and military structure of the Staff, the Command and the Armed Forces units, including the formation of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces. The proposed law also prescribes the jurisdiction of the executive authority, i.e. Governments of the Republic of Croatia in the area of defence against the submission of the proposal to the Croatian Parliament, the annual defence reports and other acts to the adoption of a defence plan, the strategic defence review, the exit of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia outside the border and the entry of the Armed Forces of the Allied States into the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the provision of humanitarian aid, and the crossing of the border of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the entry of the Armed Forces of other countries when it comes to military exercises. The Ministry of Defence as a central body has planned, directing, coordination and control functions in defence and provides conditions for the operation and operation of the Armed Forces. The main headquarters as a joint body of the Armed Forces is responsible for the preparation, command, use and use of the Armed Forces. At the head of the Chief Staff, he remains the chief of staff, command and troops and remains chief military adviser to both the President of the Republic and the Minister of Defence. The paper was introduced in part of the term of office of Chief of Staff. So far, the term of office has been put in place for five years now that the term of office of Chief of Staff is four years, with the possibility of extending for a year under the same conditions as its appointment. The paper also presents that for the first time in the Bill's proposal in defence, it is prescribed that the Chief of Staff shall have full command in the Armed Forces on the basis of orders and orders from the President of the Republic and decisions of the Minister of Defence. In the course of the allocation of troops to members of the Armed Forces, the Chief of Staff may transfer the power of operational and tactical command and supervision to the competent international or national command and commanders. The Defence Council shall remain a form of coordination of the body for the coordination of positions and conclusion and recommendations in the area of defence. As far as the rights and obligations of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in defence are concerned, they have a duty and a right to participate in defence through military obligation, voluntary military training, service to the contractual reserve, have a labour obligation, work assistance and a material obligation. The law elaborated a constitutional provision under which the military obligation and defence of the Republic of Croatia is the duty of all capable citizens. Military service, or civil service, is mandatory under the law in the event of direct threat or wartime, while the Croatian Parliament can decide on the introduction of a military service obligation, or civil service. In this bill, we have divided the reserve of the Armed Forces into a contractual reserve and a mobilization reserve. And mobilization to something we call a non-classified and classified reserve. Not to enter the details of the basic difference between classified and non-classified reserves is the fact that the classy reserve is the one who either served military time or was on voluntary military training or was a member of the active group of the Armed Forces. This means that it has the necessary skills and military skills to be able to serve in the reserve while the unclassified reserve is a person who unfortunately has none but what is required in carrying out a military obligation, which is just a entry into military records. As far as the contractor's concerned, it's a new category we've introduced. It is a category of which we will seek the meaning of persons who are in the reserve, who have the necessary knowledge and skills, or individual professions that are lacking in the Armed Forces, will try to make a contract with them in such a way that they will be paid during their contractual obligation, and in return they are obliged to participate in preparations for their training under a military call in order to be used by the Armed Forces as necessary. So either in peace-related situations in crisis response operations or in other situations necessary for the Armed Forces. Voluntary military training is actually a name for voluntary military service so far and is carried out when a military service obligation is not introduced. Voluntary military training can be addressed by the end of the calendar year in which 26 years of life is spent by the Croatian citizens who apply to the Ministry of Defence. Women can also benefit from voluntary military training. And voluntary military training meets one of the preconditions for joining the active military service that will later be the subject of my speech when I speak of the Law of Service in the Armed Forces. The labour obligation is the obligation of employees in state authorities, local and regional self-government units and legal persons who are subject to the obligation of defence preparation. The paper is also an obligation to assist legal persons and citizens where labour assistance can be imposed for the purpose of carrying out the duties of defence-holders in the event of war and the situation of direct endangerment. In the state of war and the state of direct endangerment of the legal person, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia also have a material obligation. As regards the current terms of the peace operation and the missions that have been implemented in our legislation, we are leaving this term and introducing a new one – peace support operations in accordance with NATO standards, and we define that these are operations using diplomatic, civil and military means to establish or maintain peace, and such operations may include conflict prevention, establishment and maintenance of peace, impose and build peace. The use of the Armed Forces is decided by the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the defence minister. In the law, you may notice that the concept of command to the Armed Forces is no longer applied to such a large extent, but the whole law requires decisions on the use of the Armed Forces because, over these 10 years, the application of the law has shown that command is in the rule of law when the time of the war is when the President of the Republic directly commands the Armed Forces while the command in peace that has been carried out through the Defence Minister in this way has been transformed into making decisions as to how the Armed Forces are used. The President of the Republic shall order the use and command of the Armed Forces in a state of war and shall be responsible for defending the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. In the event of a situation of immediate threat, the President of the Republic may, with the subsignation of the Prime Minister, order the use of the armed forces even though no war is declared. The use of armed forces in situations that require combating aircraft or vessels that violate the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and national security will be governed by a special law. The application of the Defence Act did not know the term of use of the armed forces, but was recognised by the constitutional changes of 2010. So the proposed Law on the Use of Armed Forces is decided by the Government or the Defence Minister, and such decisions are implemented through the command of the Chief Staff. The decision on the use of armed forces in the event of disasters is taken by the Government, and in the event of major accidents and accidents, the defence minister shall, on the basis of the request of the body responsible for the protection and rescue. Armed forces may also, as I said, be used to assist in fire protection and search if the fire protection authorities, i.e. search and rescue do not have adequate means and capabilities. The armed forces can also be used to assist in monitoring and protecting the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea through the Coast Guard. Armed forces can also provide assistance to the local community and civil society in the implementation of humanitarian and general interest projects under the bill. Certain units or dedicated organised forces of the armed forces may be declared as multinational response forces organised within the NATO Alliance or as part of a common security and defence policy. On the day of entry into force of the new Defence Act, the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection and civil servants and subsistence officers in peace operations and other activities abroad shall cease to apply, in a section relating to members of the armed forces, so that this matter will only be governed by the proposed law. The proposed law also regulates the area of defence preparations. Civilians are Government, Ministry, County and City of Zagreb. Legal persons of particular importance for defence shall be determined by the Government and shall be obliged to participate in defence preparations in accordance with the implementation of the plans of the action of civil defence preparations holders. The law prescribes the jurisdiction of the defence inspectorate, and also provides for military police to be established in the ministry of defence and armed forces with the task of carrying out military-police operations. The law further regulates the area of military, air and maritime transport, as well as military construction and spatial planning in military locations. The Defence Act is also proposed to regulate the area of material care and defence financing. For the implementation of the law, funds shall be provided in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Defence. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes this law through two readings, convinced that it is the only possible way to pass a quality Defence Act. We would like to hear the proposals and suggestions of all those involved in their adoption in order to draw up and establish a final draft of the law after the debate and analysis has been carried out. The proposed changes in the legal framework will allow for a new momentum in the transformation of defence and the development of professional and effective armed forces. As for the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, it is a logical continuation of the changes that took place in the Defence Act. So we bring him in a package like it was in 2002. And we have amended certain legal solutions by the new Law on Service in Armed Forces, or in a different way, to better support reforms for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, or simply because individual solutions have become inappropriate for military service, which I will later explain on certain examples. The Armed Forces Service is a service of military and professional service through military service, voluntary military training, cadet service, active military service, reserve staff and civil servants' service. I find it extremely important to have a new definition of a working military person as the most numerous categories in the armed forces system that says: "Yes, military personnel, staff are trained to carry out duties and jobs on which they are assigned or appointed, or directed, life- and health-threatening jobs, and at which they are exposed to risks. In which I stress they are unable to choose duties and places of service and are obliged to be available at any time for the performance of duties and jobs." I specifically emphasized this because this definition represents, on the basis of which the bill before you rests. It will give rise to all rights, as well as obligations of persons who have been assigned to a military call, which are governed by these draft laws. As has been prescribed so far, and this law regulates that active military personnel do not have the right to trade union organisation and are not allowed to strike, membership in political parties and running in representative bodies of citizens, local representative bodies and the Croatian Assembly. Although in the Croatian public there is a dispute over this provision of practices over the past 10 years has shown its effectiveness. In accordance with the principles of equal opportunities for equal treatment, members of the armed forces are obliged to respect the dignity of every person, reputation and honor as well as fundamental rights and freedoms of man. A military person who has been injured with dignity, especially if abused in any way, has the right to contact the Committee on Gender Equality or the Committee on the Protection of Military Dignity. Of the other forms of working relationship, or service in the armed forces, I will mention only some of whom I believe there is an interest in the Croatian public. First of all, it's about contracts for candidates for soldiers. The new bill provides for 3 contracts, the first in 3 years, the second in 5 years and the third in 5 years, which is a total of 13 years thinking about when we have passed this provision already now, although it is in the draft law, we have come to the conclusion that it might try to fix it in a way because a 13-year-old professional soldier is generally assigned to a job where there is an unfettered internship for 13 years of his service has a 6.5-year-old work internship, which means that he is 19.5 years old in total. So we were thinking that this provision could be corrected in a way that the soldiers involved in the current contract, that it could be up to 6 years so that they could achieve a retirement period of twenty years and thus, in accordance with the law on the rights of the pension insurance of active military personnel, could be retired under that law and thus ensure minimum protection of their existence after leaving and finding another career. Also, people who have completed high school education meet the conditions for active service can be defined and competed further for cadet service by the end of the calendar year in which they end 22 years of life. Persons who have also achieved the best results in the chosen procedure are referred to on the basis of a training contract for an officer for up to one year, at the first level of officer education and become candidates for officers. If I may give you a brief explanation of what this is about. Individuals who respond to voluntary military service rather than voluntary military service have the possibility of establishing a working relationship means becoming active military personnel in the armed forces. So far, that choice has been radioized means through the selection classification and before being referred to the officer's education, the person would already be based on a working relationship in the armed forces. In practice, it was found that this approach was not good because at the time of the establishment of a working relationship rather than mastering enough knowledge and skills of the need to prove to be persons who have predisposition to be good officers in this law, it was proposed that during the course of their training for officer training they would be contracted which is temporary character for a year, and only if they successfully overcame it will they be accepted into military service. The proposed law also provides for one newspaper, a category of staff who are military specialists, these are persons who possess specialised skills, the need to behave in military duties, in families of combat needs, services and professions, and who are assigned to jobs designated for a military specialist. Military specialists, in addition to specialist knowledge, must meet the general conditions for admission into the active military service, and we have predicted that this provision has a delayed start of application from 1 January 2014 in such a way that from the current structure of staff that no longer has the possibility of progress and has specific skills and does not need their promotion through the acts to be translated into the category of military specialists and thus to remain in the service. Their progress will be further governed by the sublaw of the way that instead of obtaining the rank, they will be carried out through individual paying classes where, for a certain year of life in the service, they will be able to increase the rate of salary calculation. The proposed law is further conceived in several parts, however, because of the scope of the law that you have had the opportunity to read, I would refer only to a few more institutes and solutions that we consider important highlighted because of the very expression of their arrangement or which are a novelty in the law itself. As I have already mentioned in the Defence Act, the President of the Republic shall appoint military commanders on the duty of the Brigadier, General or Admiral, while the Service Act provides that officers, or generals, admirals who, in accordance with the Defence Act, are not appointed by the President of the Republic to office shall be deployed by the Minister of Defence or by the person authorised by him. This law also provides for an institute for a non-permanent member of the armed forces that we have not had so far. As you all know, our members of the armed forces are enlisted in peacekeeping missions and we considered it important and in the law of the service foresees the possibility when a member of the armed forces with whom the commander lost contact during the exercise of combat tasks and participation in operations abroad and could not achieve it within at least 48 hours will be considered temporarily missing. As for the professional development of soldiers, active military personnel, during the service which their professional development takes place through training, training and education, successful conduct of duty and promotion in a higher rank. Professional development standards depend on personal rank, years of life, civil military education, time spent in the service as well as other circumstances important for the performance of the service. Military personnel shall be assigned acts and shall be promoted on the basis of education, training and education, official evaluations of the conduct of duties and performance. The President of the Republic shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, assign the first officer act and promote officers and generals and admirals and the proposal shall be submitted by the Chief of Staff. As regards labour rights, you were able to read and read before the law came to this assembly one of the basic reasons and the amendments to the Service and Armed Forces Act itself were labour rights, and this was precisely the way in which labour rights represented a particular problem and the problem was related to working time, rest and leave because the current law on the service of the armed forces was prescribed to the members of the armed forces to apply the law on the service of the armed forces, rules on civil servants and tenants, general labour regulations, or collective agreements concluded with them. The proposed law leaves this commitment and proposes that the area of labour rights be explicitly regulated by the proposed law and that all the rights that exist in the Labour Act and collective agreements are laid down in this law as we considered most appropriate for military persons. We have tied labour rights to receiving military personnel in such a way that we have established that a normal person has the right to pay and pay for introducing what is called a military supplement and with this military supplement that will receive all the active military personnel depending on the category in which they belong and there will be several categories of military accessories which would exclude the possibility of obtaining all other rights resulting from a collective contract. For example, we had situations where we were unable to engage members of the armed forces for 16 hours because it was overtime, there was a moment when we hired him at night. There was a fee for night work, if it was working on Saturdays, a fee was asked for Saturdays, Sundays, work on holidays. So something we call a military supplement, we will try to make up for it and bring military service into the frameworks that we consider appropriate for the military. We also had another particular problem called an excessive administrative trial on most of the acts in the field of the Service and Armed Forces Act could be launched so that we came up with the situation of an adjudicated administrative trial that we tried to resolve in a way that was prescribed by law which acts are considered administrative matters which solutions are the administrative matter to which the persons involved can file an action, means to the Administrative Court and afterwards to the High Administrative Court, and all other things we have solved by decisions that will not be administrative acts. Armed forces are also responsible and have a strong and material responsibility. The difference between the current Law of Service is that officials and deputies present in the armed forces are exempt from a strict responsibility under the new Law of Service in the Armed Forces. In order to achieve the demanding age and qualification structure of acts and professional development of staff, the defence minister shall adopt an annual allocation plan setting out the number of structures and criteria, priorities and the dynamics of staffing, as well as the active military personnel to whom the service ceases. Here's one more sentence, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Deputy Tafra timed out.]] In view of the need for services before obtaining the terms of retirement, the Ministry of Defence shall develop and implement a programme of transition and management of active military personnel. We also believe that you will help us in the debate because this law goes in two readings and we expect your comments and suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28492	Thank you. We have a single replica reported, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, by exhausting the deputy minister's presentation, she touched at least in this Law on Armed Forces Service because the debate was united, so there won't be much opportunity to talk about military specialists that we welcome anyway. However, the law left undefined civil servants and deputies present at the Ministry of Defence. This proposal of the Service Act hardly applies to them at all, and it is hardly or not mentioned only in the proposal of the Defence Act in Chapter 6, Article 111. It is certainly necessary to define their status as they carry out very significant and demanding tasks for the needs of the RS defence system. Thank you very much. It's like a suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28494	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28495	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. On behalf of the HDZ Club, let me give a brief review of the proposed Defence Act. So far, the current law, as has already been said, has been passed in the meantime by certain changes about a decade ago. And at that time, as was also said, it was an attempt to adapt the law in which the President of the Republic and the Government shared powers to constitutional changes that marked the beginning of the transformation from half-presidential to parliamentary democracy. Since then, a significant route has been achieved in the defence area, which Croatia has ultimately placed within the collective defence system, which is fundamentally achieved through full membership in the NATO Alliance, and has been further developed for the time being by active observer status, and we are soon hoping for a full participant within the EU's common security and defence policy system. Of course, these changes were necessary to follow the appropriate legislation, which was the process which began intensively to be prepared just over 2 years ago. The document basically represents a step forward compared to the previous law which was expected. The law is well prepared in that section relating to the regulation of the relationship between procedures and competences in international military activities of the armed forces, which was one of the primary objectives of amending the law in the section relating to jurisdiction and procedures and responsibilities at national level with those positive things, we believe that certain improvements are still possible. In this direction there was also a debate of HDZ MPs on the Parliamentary Defence Committee, and we are pleased with the fact that the representatives of the promoter have shown understanding, openness and willingness to accept certain suggestions. So on this occasion, I would not like to repeat what the proposaler's representative said here and what was a taste of discussion on the board, because at least we at the HDZ club understand it in the future. I would use the remaining time to argue under this law to point to one dimension that has been somewhat neglected in my court, and since it is only a first reading that I believe that there is enough time left for the promoter to consider it together with all of us. I believe that in the spirit of general commitment to strengthening parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia, the law should make an additional step in the process of democratisation and strengthen the role of the Croatian Parliament in the area of defence. I think my earlier involvement in this system gives me the right to point him out here in particular. At first, I would stress that this topic is not specific only for Croatia, in a similar way a whole series of political and academic discussions are being held in Europe and the world. It is generally recognised that there is a particular lack of transparency in the defence sector as a consequence of the need to provide vital information for national security. It is also evident that in the defence area, executive power plays an important role in which parliament is rarely bypassed. It should also be pointed out that in the area of transparency in the defence sector, movements have been made that have also been recorded in the investigation into the defence corruption index published by Transparency International yesterday, and it found that 70% of the government has failed in an adequate way to deal with the problem of corruption. Croatia belongs to the other 30%, although it should add that there is a whole range of findings and recommendations that can be improved even further. For these reasons, I believe that in this debate it is necessary to point out the existence of a political will to strengthen not only parliamentary supervision, you call it civil, mainly in the west is a term used by parliament oversight, but also stronger and more inclusive in the defence area itself. In fact, the law in Article 5 recognises the role of the Parliament, this is what the Deputy Minister spoke about, but it seems insufficiently highlighted to me in comparison with other parliaments of a similar democratic system that we want to develop in Croatia. First of all, I am referring to the fact that Parliament's role in the affairs of larger procurement, i.e. the equipment of the Armed Forces, is not foreseen by means of combat over a certain amount. I'd like to give you a brief explanation. Equipment of material and technical means, particularly in the context of modernisation, is one of the most complex jobs in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. The countries that are our partners in NATO in the European Union have approached these problems differently, but always with the purpose of making this demanding job as transparent as possible. Unfortunately, in the past, Croatia has experienced certain negativity in this area, some of which are still waiting for a court epilogue. A response to similar problems in the West has been found not only in strengthening parliamentary surveillance, but also in including parliament, and thus the highest public in the process of major military procurement. For example, in our case, the solution to the issue of combat aviation, new ships, the development of certain types of weapons and equipment, is a matter of great importance to the state. At the same time, decisions which are not simple and are not uniform must include specific knowledge from several areas: military, strategic, financial, negotiating. In the end, these decisions are always political, they are long-term, and I therefore believe that the Parliament, its Defence Committee, is a particularly important place of debate, and a certain guarantee of implementation, especially in the event that the logic of democratic processes also leads to changes in power. It is also a very complex and complex shopping process in which the state still appears as the main participant of the business. In its 2006 survey, the IMF estimated that around 15% of the total consumption of weapons worldwide goes to various types of bribery and bribery. As a result, many democratic states have legally regulated a solution requiring formal consent of parliaments that de facto approve contracts in the defence area that cross a certain threshold, i.e. value, e. One million kunas or one million euros. In addition, specifically for countries that do not have extra highly specialised personnel to decide on such matters, which is our case too, is that they are currently using Parliament or a specialised committee to respond more successfully to this challenge. The involvement of Parliament means the involvement of more people with political responsibility, but also the public and civil society in a business that is of vital interest to the defence of the country. I think the solution I advocate would ease the burden of making decisions like this, which has been mostly at the Ministry of Defence in the past, and then in the process of making decisions in the government and the president. As I have already said, there has always been a tendency in developed societies to consider the defence to be a power shared by the military and the executive power. This was justified by the fact that decisions must be made quickly and efficiently. Those times are behind us for at least two reasons. One is the development of democratic procedures that inevitably and in this area mean greater involvement, and I would say Parliament's responsibility. The second, of course, is that we are not threatened by any direct threat. In this respect, the Parliament should also play a more important role in the process of evaluating the strategic defence review. Namely, reports on the process of reviewing the coherence of strategic concepts, as well as the achieved and planned defence capabilities with defence needs arising from the reality of the strategic and security environment as defined by this law are actually an ideal document for discussion in the Assembly and in the Assembly Committee. Because the fundamental purpose is, now we're talking about the strategic defence review theory just to strengthen the discussion and thus the decisions on vital interests, the ways in which they are protected and the resources to be created. We also have a body that was created as a consequence of our constitutional solutions. It's a defence council made up of the President of the Republic with co-workers and prime minister with ministers. In front of the Parliament, forgive me for alleging only the President of the Parliament, which is a confirmation of the thesis that I am trying to bring through this debate about the resident, I would say by unintentional neglect of the legislative authority. Namely, no one has joined the President of the Parliament, not even a president or a certain number of members of the Defence Committee. Such a solution sends a message that in our defence system, the positions of some appointed officials or officials are more important than elected representatives in the legislative authority especially when we talk about the Parliament, the Parliamentary Defence Committee. Personally, I don't think this kind of message is the best thing for Croatian parliamentaryism. I'd just like to say a few words about the proposed Law of Service in the Armed Forces. Thus, there is a tendency to regulate issues that have caused difficulties in functioning over the past period. That's what the deputy was talking about. Of course, issues related to professional development, the introduction of new categories of staff. I agree with Mr Babic and his intervention. We need to make sure that we're cutting things across our knees here in the sense that we're also experiencing this job in a way that's not adequate for modern trends. If you want to go to Germany, you have at least 60 unions and other organizations in which members and the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defense are connected, and the more you go west, the more you go into more advanced democracy, you will see that this job is increasingly as they say... So you're doing that job, but it's not your profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, here is also about some possibilities of another profession, etc. For all this I see that I am running out of time, dear Deputy Minister, I ask you to consider this opinion and these opinions until the second reading. It is, in fact, well-intentioned proposals that not only rely on some standards of the circle of the countries to which we belong or we will belong soon, but because they are simply good for Croatia. HDZ Club proposes to show itself in the next period the level of political will needed and that together the proposer and the Defence Committee meet and try to reach as much consensus as possible over this truly crucial legislative act. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28496	Thank you, too. The time foreseen for discussion on behalf of the SDP club will be shared by representatives Sandra Petrovic and Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, and fellow MPs. There's certainly a new defense law ahead of us in the first reading. It is a fundamental law governing the defence portfolio for which it is of course extremely important to be well prepared, to be agreed by all relevant institutions from the Ministry of Defence, from the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and the President of the Republic of Croatia, and through the Government until its final adoption in the Assembly. At the same time, he came to us in the parliamentary procedure and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, so I believe that we can freely call this legislative step a small defence reform. Why do we need this reform and it's important? First of all, the current Defence Act was passed in 2002. Since then, it has only been changed several times, in 2004, 2007 and 2009. However, these changes were not more significant than those of 2007 which we needed to meet the conditions for establishing international cooperation and interoperability in the NATO collective defence system, whose membership we had already met. Since nearly six years have passed since the adoption of the original text of the law, it is logical that the Ministry of Defence, together with all relevant institutions whose powers in the defence portfolio have come under the law, have joined the creation of a new law. On one occasion, the Minister of Defence recently told us very honestly that the Law on Defence along with the Law on Armed Forces, or on the Service in the Armed Forces, is a small passage and that in practice there are problems in the functioning of the Armed Forces. Fortunately, the criticism did not stop, so we have before us the proposals of both new laws, key to the functioning of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The fundamental law of defense resists a series of news. We consider it well-prepared and ultimately goes into two readings and is prepared as a whole new law instead of as changes and additions and as a club of SDP we support and welcome. It is in itself a co-ordination that with the new position of the Armed Forces within NATO and the EU in the future and no less important alignment with the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, the newspapers we want to welcome concern the transparent arrangement of institutions in the defence portfolio from the president of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, the Defence Council, the Council, the Council of Defense, the Council, etc. Since this is only the first reading and we will have the opportunity to discuss this law once again, I am taking the opportunity to highlight from this place a good thought that has been permeated through previous discussions on this law, which concerns the composition of the Defence Council. It would not be worse to consider until the second reading on the participation of a member of the Defence Council who will be a representative of this House, or Parliament. So, he was the chairman of the Defence Committee or of another member of the Defence Committee, and perhaps the best solution would be that he was elected from the ranks of Croatian Parliament MPs by the majority of the votes of all MPs. It's just a suggestion to think about. This solution, we believe, would be a significant step in parliamentary surveillance of the defence portfolio in the Republic of Croatia, and the strengthening of parliamentary supervision within NATO and between its members has long been referred to as a very important topic, and in this sense, the NATO Member States have different experiences and solutions. However, all tend to one goal, which is to strengthen parliamentary defence and security control mechanisms. Furthermore, I am also taking the opportunity to mention the provisions that speak of co-operation, training, action of members and troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. They are a new law in detail and it is evident that there is a great emphasis on interoperability. The previous law regulated this portfolio at a time when the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were somewhat isolated, were not part of NATO or the EU at all, and the situation in the region was rather politically and securely unstable. The new Law on Defence takes place in time, but also with the Strategic Plan of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in 2013-2015, which has objectives divided into three groups. Therefore, the overall goal of the number one is to develop and maintain defence capabilities, the general objective of two meaningful and sustainable contributions to collective defence and international security and the general objective of three aid to the country's civilian institutions. New times bring new challenges to defence, and I believe the new Defence Act will allow the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to respond successfully to them. The SDP club will support the adoption of the Defence Act, and I will now leave the second half of my time to my colleague Spoljar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28498	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputy ministers and colleagues and fellow MPs. What is a military call and service in the Armed Forces, and what about military invitation and service does this law propose to amend, supplement and improve? The armed forces are specially formed an organization trained and equipped to lead all forms of armed combat. The main task of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Armed forces may also carry out certain tasks in peace caused by exceptional circumstances, e.g. It's an elemental accident. Armed forces are responsible for implementing decisions by the competent civil authorities on the issue of war or on the issue of peace. At the service of the Armed Forces other than the active military personnel, the handbook, cadets and reserves are both civil servants and military deputies. The service in the Armed Forces is the service of military service, voluntary military training, cadet service, military service, reserve service and civil servant service. This law prescribes, for example, who can be a handbook, and the contractual reserve is also called and referred to the service of the Armed Forces in accordance with the provisions of the Defence Act and the provisions of this law. An adult citizen of the Republic of Croatia who fulfils the general conditions laid down by this law under model 3+5+5 may be admitted to the Armed Forces Service. The candidate signs a 3-year military service contract with the Ministry of Defence. In accordance with the needs of the service with the active soldier, a second military service contract shall be concluded for up to 5 years, after which it may be selected and with personal consent addressed to the first level of honorary education. And according to needs and third, for another five years. The proposed law also introduces a brand-new category of military specialists, already spoken of by the deputy. The life and work of members of the Armed Forces compared to civilian activities has been organised and formed. The requirements for respecting and respecting the rules of military discipline are strict, and his disrespect is punished. Military regulations determine the manner of official communication between soldiers and commanders, officers and officers. It is an obligation for every member of the army to wear a military uniform with signs of rank and position in the workplace. Until now, the above is governed by the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It regulates access to the service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the schedule, acts and promotions to acts, obligations, rights and responsibilities, the separation and termination of the service and other status issues of members of the Armed Forces. But he is ten years old and it is necessary to comply with the Constitution, with the law, international war and humanitarian law and general and special rules of conduct. So today we have before us this proposal of the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law prescribes principles and specialities in the service of the Armed Forces. For example, with a number of restrictions and obligations of a military person, officials and deputies have certain rights and privileges. Military employees' salaries on average are somewhat more than wages in similar civil occupations. This law regulates salaries, salary allowances and other material rights of the active military person. The salaries of active military personnel consist of basic salaries and salary supplements, pay additions are made by the active military person for special conditions of military service and for deficiting calls and professions. Military units, administrations and institutions have a different start and end of working hours, but they all work eight hours a day. In certain situations, a person in the armed forces is obliged to work overtime. This is exactly where the problem arose in paying overtime and paying compensation by lawsuits, and this proposal will change. The law proposes to arrange working hours, holidays and holidays. Some of the restrictions described by this law are to be imposed on an active military person, a civil servant and an undersigned shall not be permitted to carry out independent economic or professional activities. Military personnel do not have the right to trade union organisation and are not allowed to strike, and are not allowed to join political parties. Many jobs and tasks in the Armed Forces are carried out by women, their position in the Armed Forces should contribute to the establishment of a Committee on Gender Equality. Professional development of active military personnel is based on continuous training, training and education through successful conduct of duty, and promotion to higher rank, which also describes this law. The Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia also regulates the area of very, very important area of participation of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad, by prescribing the rights and obligations of persons referred to in operations, support for peace and other activities abroad for a maximum period of 4 years. It must be at least 2 years between two references. Finally, this law stipulates that an active military service may cease under the law on the basis of a personal request after the expiry of the period on which it was admitted to the service or termination, following the expiry of the probationary work of soldiers and of the agreement. Active military personnel receive an honorable or dishonest discharge through the termination of their military service. It is prescribed in which cases an unfair discharge is received and the consequences of such dismissal are produced, and how it contributes to the discipline and reputation of the Armed Forces. The proposal for this law has no basis in politics, but is supporting reforms and the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. He proposes regulating education and employment in the Armed Forces, but at the same time strengthens the discipline and availability of the forces. Two readings open up extra space for the dialogue. The SDP's representative club supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28499	The replica is Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28500	Here, just a little bit. Mrs. Petrovic, whom I highly appreciate, I think she said that at the time of the law, she was already certain of our NATO entry. For reasons of historical truth, I would point to the fact that it was not so certain. I will just mention some of the challenges that we faced at the time from those general conditions that we know from negotiations with the European Union that we had to go through and when NATO is concerned, then our internal contradictions related to the invasion of Iraq, related to Article 98, the exemption of US troops from the jurisdiction of the international criminal court. And above all, the record low support that has been in Croatia for several years when we talk about supporting NATO membership. Thank God she's over 60% of us for a few years. However, in any case, I welcome your position and the pledge and on behalf of the SDP Club to strengthen parliamentary, parliamentary oversight of this system because it was also the system of my discussion on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28501	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28502	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Honorable Representative Bozinović. I also appreciate your work and your lobbying for NATO when we went inside. I must say when there were amendments and additions to the Law on Defence in 2007, it was that time I referred to that it was already certain Croatia's entry into NATO. These are not actually my words, but those are the words of Minister Roncevic, who was the defence minister at the time, so he spoke about Croatia's very certain entry into NATO when presenting the law on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28503	Club of Croatian Labourists and party of work and respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28504	Your Honor, Vice President and the Deputy Minister's esteemed. I'll do something different from my predecessors. The situation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is appropriate to the needs of approximately as well as the time to hold this debate accordingly, but the point of the agenda is not the situation in the armed forces, but let's just say the legal framework for future action, so let's do something about it. Therefore, it is prescribed, among other things, that the responsibilities of the Croatian Parliament set out in Article 5. Item 2 is among other things: "The Parliament decides on the amount and structure of the funds to finance the defence on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." Really a formula that's more than correct. However, it was also questionable that some other could find their place in the first place, but given the real situation, it might be more appropriate for the Parliament to confirm the level of financial resources in line with the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia. I think it's more appropriate to be in real condition than the one written in law, although I know this one must be in law. I think there's even a third one that could be classified, which might be even closer to the truth, which is that the Parliament takes note of information about the amount of financial resources to finance the defense that has been assigned to it by the world's power centers. That would be about what's real. Now a little bit more about this piece that's texting itself. The rights and obligations of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Article 20 states: "Wifes, soldiers, bonds are not subject to a recruiting obligation and obligation to serve the military term", then paragraph 3. "The women who have the knowledge and skills needed by the armed forces are subject to the obligation to serve in the reserve." I didn't find out what kind of knowledge and skills it was, so it's a little bit like that for me not to say too much on the loose. I think there'd be something a little more subtle about it, a little closer to what it's all about. Article 26 is then prescribed to serve the contractual reserve, so paragraph 3 speaks of the possibility of making an exceptional contract with a non-classified reserve. What are these exceptional opportunities and what is the basis for this decision? The following text states that the conditions and criteria will be laid down by the Minister, but what are the exceptional possibilities of a contract being concluded with persons who did not serve the military deadline and who were not on voluntary military training at all. That's like two things that got stuck in my eye just like that, but I'm more stuck with the debate I've heard here. Where it is praised and the minister has found in his announcements that there is no possibility of establishing a union, there is no possibility of membership in political parties, that it will be regulated that there is no paying overtime, and so there are still some things I express my position. There is no obstacle to being a member of a political party if it is not politically organised. Which is why someone can't be a member of a political party. He just can't perform politically, and this is what I think gets fat on some other rights. Syndical organization, why forbid someone? And then plus there's no right to overtime, which we got with that, how does overtime even come about? In a very simple way, you don't have a sufficient number of perpetrators and then you need to work overtime. Now we're going to ban them by law and we're going to brag about how nice we are and what do you have, you've got dissatisfied people, and for what? Let's have it, the minister went public a few times with a view to wanting a modern army of guys in that positive sense of the legion of foreigners, something elite and, on the other hand, deprives these people of their fundamental rights. The deputy minister told us the experience tells us, a ten-year experience, so normally when I don't have another experience. Ten years of experience, you've banned something, and it reminds me of that story about the donkey that didn't get the word. Just when he learned to starve, it's dead. So don't let it happen this isn't definitely neither human or in favor of the armed forces of these laws. You're creating dissatisfied people inside the system, and there's no need for that. There is simply no need, given this appropriate time on this subject I have finished my presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28505	On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic. He's gone. The club's losing the right to discuss this. On behalf of the HNS club Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28506	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Madam Deputy Minister, esteemed resilient and patient colleagues and colleagues. It's rare to argue when I agree, maybe this is even the first one in my year and a few days when I agree at least with all the previous speakers. To begin by saying that the HNS Club will support the proposals of these two laws because these are changes in legal or new legal acts that seek to monitor the times and changes in the circumstances in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia operate, changes in access to the defence of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the circumstances of the way and the service to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. What is it about if we enter a little bit into the history of the formation of the armed forces and those temptations that under certain circumstances and regimes had these armed forces then we know that their beginning was unfortunately under those worst specific circumstances of war activities in which a whole series of functions of the armed forces could neither be transparent nor controlled by civil society. It was a time of the embargo, it was a time of real normal military secrets and access to real and real information and the state of things only to the most responsible part of the country's defence. However, in a later period of time, of course, that changes have begun to take place and at the time of the adoption of the current Law on Defence of this so far which has experienced several novels, we have had individual access to defence or there has been no membership in an alliance such as the NATO Pact, there was no possibility of what awaits us tomorrow, and this is participation in the EU's joint military forces, and this law simply did not foresee such a situation, did not provide for decision mechanisms, did not legally recognise such a type of military action at all. And of course, following all these changes that have taken place in political change, the need for a new reformed or amended law has been created because today's defence approach that the Republic of Croatia has is a common defence together with partner countries. It has also taken over the international obligations of participation in war operations, peace operations. All this brings a whole series of different protocols that need to be legally followed and different ways of making decisions. Both laws are very extensive and it would take a lot of time to get into the details. It is clear that many concepts, many things, are clearly defined what this represents, in fact, the defence of the Republic of Croatia, on which all variants can be used by the Armed Forces of the Republic, which of the essential factors of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Ministry, the General Staff, in which variants are made which decisions, which are taken under co-signed under what circumstances, what happens when Parliament is in any event due to exceptional circumstances not in office. A series of things has been elaborated in detail in this law but I must say that the debate of a respected colleague of Bozinović opened a topic that is very interesting and has its historic foothold in the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I'll return to that wartime. In these circumstances, there may not have been a choice in some situations. All kinds of things were obtained, without a clear concept, without standardisation of equipment because what could have been purchased under the banks that we Dalmatians say in black, even some governments fell for it, after the end of the Homeland War, not ours, but how much I remember Argentine. The systems were also purchased high-value systems that are current and today like the S 300 component of the system, but this chaotic approach that was conditioned by maybe objective circumstances, and very certain and visiblely and subjectively brought certain huge damage not only to the financial nature but also to the political nature of the Republic of Croatia because I don't know only part of the component of one anti-aircraft defence system S 300, and not to obtain a command centre and radar, so forgive me for the expression of the Pacer. Who signed it? We don't know. And under what circumstances did he sign? I don't know, and I wouldn't want to deal with speculation. But today we are not in these circumstances, today we operate within an alliance where most countries have strengthened the strong role of civil work in controlling and managing their armed forces. Today, almost in this time of piece of information, there is no military secret. It's no secret how many Interceptors we're in today, how many neighboring countries we have, how many armored vehicles there are, how many heavy tanks they have, how many cannons they have, that's what they know. For some even in my day when it was actual, I knew the data in my mind. In that situation, and it turns out that in peacetime we have weaknesses, I'm going to remind you of the assessment of Patria's purchase, and now I'm thinking that we don't know 126 vehicles too much, so if we're going to sell, Mrs. Tafra knows what she's thinking, and then we're going to put into a mid-term plan that brings this Parliament, the equipment of the armed forces, put a figure of 75 major battle tanks, then we realize that we're doing 18 right, so we're thinking if we're going to spend this, aren't we going to spend? Then we're going to get these Patrias and buy two Helsinki-class rocket cannons that have RBS 15 missile systems. The sea, the sea, meanwhile, experienced what is said to be the end of the resources in Croatia. And unfortunately, I have to go there in general... of course it doesn't apply to this one, especially not to this council, because it's too short this set, but when you look at the last 10 years of quality in planning, equipment, decision-making, the way you get it, the mine-hunter who's been equipped in the reef for 10 years, I've visited it two times in that period to witness how it works slower than the Keeps pyramid. All this opens up the need to discuss the idea, that at the very least the Parliamentary Defence Committee has a more significant insight into what is going on, how it is signed and who is signing. Because the fact is one, apart from the two three weapons acquisitions they did not experience, let's just say the pistachios squadron when these Russian helicopters were bought the last time they were beaten up with debt, almost all the more significant supplies of military weapons and equipment in the Republic of Croatia were accompanied by scandals. As counterpart Bozinovic said, some court proceedings are still under way, an uncertain outcome. And this really opens the need for a parliament that plays a key role, which makes and confirms the amount of funds needed, which even makes a decision on a possible commitment to military service under this bill, which makes a number of important decisions, a decision to send troops outside the border of the Republic of Croatia that this Parliament should also have interference in this part. Also, with regard to the Council of Defence on Greater Attendance, although the president of the Defence Council is envisaged as a member of the Defence Council, I do not think it is a bad idea that and a certain number, whether one or two members of the Parliamentary Defence Committee, the Assembly Defence Committee, are part of the Defence Council. Finally, counterpart Novak has collapsed on certain things that are specific in the military service, I would not go in with him in the controversy and there is no explanation, but there is an explanation why it came in this section regarding serving in the Armed Forces to some changes, which is the fact that the military call is specific and that it can be talked about paying overtime hours, possibly when the working hours fund that every employee in the Republic of Croatia has is being fired, but the military call is not such that you can come to work at 7am and go home at 3 am, it's just not like that, not even ours, here 11 hours less two minutes, and we're actually talking about the fundamental things that concern national security and in that part I have to agree with Novak. For the shortest time, it is good that such a law is the subject of a common debate, that there are two readings, that we have time to think about it, sleep over, in which the legislator of the law of time will have some of this stuff and the details he heard during this late debate may be edified, and the HNS Club will in any case support the proposals of these two laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28507	Replica, MP Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28508	Thank you. I would just briefly refer to what Mr Baranovic was saying about the role of parliament. I mean, I'm really starting out of it and you can see from this discussion that we all have a common goal and this is the moment, the Defense Act doesn't really change every few months or every year. This is the moment that when we talk about parliamentary surveillance, and believe me that's the topic and those solutions are present almost in all countries, I am here when we negotiated the possible purchase of aircraft together with Bulgarians and Romanians, they have a parliament that decides on procurement. So we are not just talking about Germany or older democracies in Europe. This is a real moment to position ourselves here both as a state and as a parliament on the track of the best solutions. No one is immune from system irregularities, he was called a Swedish or Finnish, the question is how much the legislator leaves space. In the west, that space is all narrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28509	Second replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28510	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Baranovic it was a specific profession. Yes, but frankly, all occupations are specific, and union association exists in other armies in Europe, so if you're alluding that part, it's solved that way in other armies. As for overtime, I react exclusively on the basis of the data I received from people who achieved 240 hours a month. I think it's already enough in itself to get to 240.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28511	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28512	Dude, I didn't allude to union association. I touched exactly what you mentioned in the second part of your replica. The matter of hours, yes, I agree with you if he has done a truly 240 hours net in one calendar month or at some time interval accounting for captains, that he should leave room, and ultimately the legislator has provided for certain additions to this law for professional soldiers. However, we also have situations where a soldier has to spend 48 hours in continuity because of the specificity of the profession. It can then be resolved by a number of days off afterwards and the monthly captainship is respected. And we can't every time in one day he moves eight o'clock, nine o'clock, and there have been cases like that. And the Department of Defense has been exposed to a series of litigation disputes. That's what Madam Deputy Minister knows. We know that, too, who are on the parliamentary committee, because the minister presented figures that are fratern, which you simply cannot believe that we allowed ourselves as a state to in this way waste the funds that we need again in order for some of the basic needs of the Ministry of Defence, or the Armed Forces to be respected. That's the part I've been thinking about. Otherwise, I am a supporter of maximum respect for rights and soldiers as well as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28513	An individual debate from my colleague, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. There's not much of us. So I'm going to mention what I said on the board and in my club that I honestly don't appreciate these two laws going parallel, so what happens at the same time. And in the end, even here at this time, we've united the debate on both of us. It gives me a kind of impression that already in advance we have decided the Defence Act will be what it will be, and with it we will pass the Armed Forces Act, which will be the way this one will be, whether any amendment will be accepted or not. So we've already said it in advance, and I can't do it without each other. So the Law of Service in the Armed Forces must definitely be in line with the Defence Act. Well, good. In itself, the Law on Defence, or Service in the Armed Forces, needs to be brought into line with all the changes that have taken place in the defence system for the last 10 years, respecting the fact that we are already four years of NATO members and that soon this year, if God does, we will become a member of the EU. Perhaps we could still determine some kind of procedure and mechanisms if we, in fact, determined a system of defence in peace, so I don't know a system of defense for a possible state of war on national or international organisation. Maybe that'd be good. The new legal solutions, therefore, will have to, must allow for a definitive depolitisation of the army. What I said on the board, I'll do it again. I think the definition itself is that a plan to use the Armed Forces suggests a defence minister not to go that way. I don't think so. So, I think I can agree with the fact that maybe I'm still conservative in military terms. But I think it's the Chief of Staff, so it has to be the one who proposes using the Armed Forces if he's going to implement it, and then he has to propose it. Because the minister is a political person, so the person who comes from the political party. And I don't think there should be a solution like this. Finally, as I have seen from the law of the President of the Republic of Croatia as commander-in-chief, a number of high-ranking officers, so Admirals and Generals, but compared to the old law, this is a small number. Everything else is being deployed by the Secretary of Defense, so it turns out that the Secretary of Defense, as far as I've seen, has appointed the Deputy Chief of Chief of Staff, I don't know the head of the university, etc. And yet again, in some ways, it gives the impression that, someone is going to say that it's civil, democratic surveillance, in my opinion, maybe even again a direction called politicization. About that we can compare it in a way that Minister Jovanovic determines I don't know these handball players and that he is the one who wants him to deal with it further, let's just say it's not a problem. Because we all probably think we can put together a handball team better than any menu. But in a complex system like the Armed Forces, so where the waist has to come especially to terms I'm not sure it's simple. Finally, when it comes to the use of the Armed Forces, or to the assistance of the States by allies, it is not regulated except in Article 49 that only the reference to the request for assistance in the defence of the States to the allies is, but it is not said whether and under what conditions parts of the Armed Forces may be allocated to the foreign command, i.e. in respect of the transfer of powers and the restrictions on the operation of the Armed Forces, that is, the State of the Allies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is similar in situations where the Armed Forces act, so in rescue situations, etc. So with the State Rescue Authority. In my view, they should not adapt to the requirements of the state, so the central rescue service, but I think they should have their plans and plan to comply with the plans of the state. I think the military, or that the Armed Forces must have their own rules and everything, therefore, plans, and for conditions or for a purpose called rescue and for everything else. So, not just for military action. It is stated that the Chief of Staff has even been said to have received full command. Well, I agree with that. It is so stated in the law, but with what I have just stated, so in terms of the plan of application, proposals etc. I'm not sure that's literally how it is. It's so de jure paper, but de facto he's got a responsibility, and about the command I'm not sure it's exactly like that. In my opinion, he was only given a great responsibility, and everything else is somehow through the complexity of his powers, and everything else was imposed on him before, so before he was given something rather than that I was, or that the profession itself created it the way I think it should be. One example is that there is no indication of what is going to happen, or what about the powers involved I do not know who can be transferred to, say, the head of power as to the training of future officers? So, what kind of officers would it be if the profession, for example, had no effect on their schooling? That is one example that I simply think about. And it's too important this law I say that, and what Mr. Bozinovic said, I think we should also try to unite all forces through the Defence Committee somehow. It would be a shame if in the second reading we had again I didn't know the remarks that would lead to the law not being passed by consensus. Because it's not the law I don't know about excise duties or anything, it's the Law of Defence, or the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, which simply has to be passed by some general consensus. As for the second part, it means service in the Armed Forces, so what I said is true for the first time. Knowing the Law of Defence may make it easier for us to talk about the ministry itself, or the law. First of all, what I would suggest is people of soldiers, military persons. I think they should be able to sign the 3+5+5 proposal, so I think it's a short limit for being in the army. If the first contract is signed with 22 say what's certain, then he can complete a three-year contract and say four more five-year-olds. In other words, we should provide a 20-year-old career, at least up to 45 years old. It should thus enable him to do what the entire advanced world knows today and to practice, in a way, another career. I think both the military and the entire system so the state administration institutions could think about it. So, we have a lot of examples because a trained soldier, therefore, who has completed the highest military school and works in a system that is probably the most complex system that at all there is damage it is simply up to 45 years to lose it for society and let it go that I don't know some margins when it can be used what will be more than good and useful to him and the whole society. It can be used through everything he's done, through the education he's got. So I think that just through these examples, we could maybe improve the size and career and everything that goes along with it. What else could I say? What I've already said, so I think it's necessary to give the Chief of Staff the opportunity if he's the promoter of the president of the state I don't understand that he can't also propose to the Secretary of Defense, for example, to promote acts, for appointments in office. I think he should be given more authority. Something similar to what was in the old Armed Forces Act because if there's no profession, then I don't know what future Armed Forces will look like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28515	An individual debate. A colleague of Ante Babic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on defense of happiness goes into two readings, does not go according to an emergency procedure, because what I have seen may be good to correct until the second reading and teaching on fellow Miles that we do not repeat ourselves in these small hours I will say only certain remarks that may be good to correct. The assessment of the situation and the underlying issues which are regulated by the proposed law and the consequences that the law will have anywhere in the text mentions the consequences that the law will have. Perhaps the promoter himself expects everyone to conclude these consequences for himself. I think they should have been pointed out clearly. In accordance with Article 3(8), the power of command and supervision shall be the right and responsibility of the commander to issue orders to the subordinates and to control their implementation. Instead of the word "control," you should probably stand by the word "control." Article 4 topics and documents in the field of defence are a defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia and a military strategy of the Republic of Croatia, a strategic defence review, a long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and a defence plan of the Republic of Croatia. The National Security Strategy is the source of guidelines for the development of all strategic and legal documents in the area of national security and defence. In the defence system, they include a defence strategy, a strategic defence review and a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Since one part of them has already been made, that is, in a new cycle of production without a new National Defence Security Strategy, it is clear that we have not yet clearly defined as a state on key issues and national security settings. There is no mention of the National Security Strategy anywhere in the draft law nor in the context of the participation of the IORH in its creation. I think it is a very important document, and in this context, it should be represented accordingly in this law. Article 4 of point 2 states that the military strategy of the Republic of Croatia is a conceptual document which further develops the military capacity of the Armed Forces by means of the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Croatia and defines the structure of the Armed Forces of the principle of organisation and the use of the Armed Forces. Chapter 4. Armed Forces in Chapter 2. – The application of the Armed Forces articles 38 to 56 defines the use of the Armed Forces in certain situations. In fact, it can be concluded that the RH Armed Forces Plan is a conceptual document which elaborates the principles of the use of the Armed Forces for situations relating to Articles 38 to 56. I believe it is necessary to define a plan for the application of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as defined by the basic defence documents in Article 4. It is also unclear why inspectors are not authorised to review documents relating to the application plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and are authorised to review any other documents relating to the defence, that is, under Article 87. Most likely there is a reason, but due to better understanding and problems of the use of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, it should be stated in a certain way. In particular, because Article 45(1) states that the Croatian Parliament, President of the Republic, Prime Minister and Defence Minister and in accordance with the Constitution and this law decide in the application of the Armed Forces. As regards Article 9 for the rescue service that Mr. Milas spoke of, in fact, unlike the existing law in this proposal within the Defence Council, there is no director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. I believe that, at the very least, it is necessary to explain why it is not proposed, given the importance of this institution in the area of national security. In Article 13, it is likely that a technical error: "The Ministry of Defence shall carry out matters relating to, among other things, the 19th military maritime affairs and military air traffic." And that's the same thing in Article 15. "The head office within the Ministry of Defence is performing tasks related to military-maritime operations and military-air transport operations." Article 13 and Article 15 define the same tasks that point to certain parallelism in the system, I assume that these transactions are carried out both at Ministry of Defence and at the level of the main headquarters. But everyone with certain powers, so I suggest that this difference be indicated in the text of the law. In Article 19, which Mr Novak is about, it seems to me: "The women who have special knowledge and skills needed by the armed forces are subject to the obligation to serve in the reserve." There is no indication of what special knowledge and skills it is, perhaps they are somewhere and if they are, then the act should be specified. Article 63, it's important that I come from the local self-government unit, and I know that there have been some problems related to this issue. Armed forces can provide exceptional assistance to local communities, civil society institutions in the implementation of humanitarian projects and projects of general interest. When carrying out the activities of paragraph 1 of this Article, the principles of free competition shall not be violated. Unlike the applicable law which does not regulate the issue of helping the local community and civil society institutions implement humanitarian projects and projects of general interest, this proposal allows for the proper regulation of this highly sensitive area. Of course, the most important thing is to make sure that the principles of free competition are not violated. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It may be useful to draw up a list of all the implementing rules because one part of them cannot be properly read from this bill. And in conclusion, not to be too long, it is acceptable to regulate the area of duty and the rights of citizens to defend and use the Armed Forces. In some parts, it may be general, communication and information affairs, and in some it is pretentious, military-police affairs. And although the implementation of this bill does not require additional financial resources to be provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia without adequate funding of the defence system, the military obligation system and then parts of the Armed Forces subject to the equipment, training and preparedness programmes that Mr Bozinović spoke of on behalf of the HDZ Club will be significantly violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28517	The last individual debate of my colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Secretary of Defense. You initially said in your opening part that this law is passed with the motive of modern defence perception, new political realities, collective defence, movement towards the parliamentary system, and that is what should certainly be welcomed. But if that's the case, then the question is why we didn't first discuss what had to be preceded, and these are strategic documents that define precisely these concepts of jell-o without their definition, which are one of the general places that we all agree to. But when it comes to theirs, to say operationalisation or consideration, then there's probably going to be a lot of difference. So it seems to me that in this law, as well as in those previous ones that we discussed today, that we had an energy development strategy, that we had a strategy to exploit Croatia's mine supply, or that we had here at least a strategy for the development of Croatia, a national security strategy, strategic guidelines for the development of the armed forces, then we could only know, not only good intentions, which we do not doubt, but how effective this law will be and what all that law supports. The second element that I think here should be, and that's like any other law that discussed all this law, what were all the remarks, which all the remarks were accepted by the promoter. Also, if we wanted to continue a tradition and the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army should, I don't know if it wasn't, but we should have called in the former generals and admirals and said that their opinion on it is also heard, because it is a good practice in democratic countries. As for the short term, given the time that has already moved so far, allow only a telegraph few notes regarding what is being said here to move towards the parliamentary system. I think it would be good to propose that the legislator should be included in the law as members of the Defence Council, that I do not read now all the tasks of the Council, given that the President of the Republic as Supreme Commander has his own defence advisers, the adviser of the President of the Republic of Republic of National Security, so that it would be good here and then the presidents of the Defence Committee and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to be classified as being in the rule of place for opposition. In this way, these key documents and decisions would be made with a consensus to a greater extent with consensus because it is precisely systems that do not suffer such huge turbulence and changes over time, and in this way this would, let's say, mitigate these possible turbulences. In this Article 14, there is one provision that seems to me personally, I do not know why the provision that the Chief Staff is the Chief Advisor, military adviser to the President of the Republic. I don't know what that's about when the Chief of Staff is in direct communication and appointed by the President of the Republic. Therefore, due to continuity and criticism, it would be good if the chief adviser were not also chief of staff, especially if the chief of staff could come here to change and the chief adviser would not have to. I guess here as a member of the council is mentioned counsellor of the President of the Republic for Defence, I don't know if it's the chief advisor or not, I guess it's not, but then you should see it, if it's separated that I suppose it's going there. Now, something about this modern defense concept. You have only one remark in principle, given the time. Article 41 says "The main branches of the armed forces are parts of the armed forces within the framework of the study of tasks in certain geographical areas, land, sea, air." That's not controversial. However, any basic textbook, today national security or anything will tell you that countries in the 19th and 20th centuries that had dominated land, sea and air dominated the world and countries in the 21st centuries that dominated the information space and ruled the world. And so when you look at it, what went further is that the provisions when thousands of infringements are made about rights and responsibilities or those communication systems of data protection, then it's read as follows: "If someone is shooting from the air without permission, or if the air footage doesn't send for inspection." This provision sounds archaic in view of the modern technologies to which it is done or said in Article 116. "If we do not have this provision of a modern concept of information space, the responsibilities of the armed forces for that space, and if we know that our armed parties do not have such a structure to deal with and the information war so they do not do so when they are in missions in the world, then at least we should point out in some way since we do not know whether or not they thought so, and there are no signs of taking care of it and yet I say it is a matter of strategic documents, so we do not know whether it is meant or not. Finally, it is also clear that the state will decide by special acts which documents may or may not go to administrative dispute. I believe that a very elegant solution for the state or for the Ministry of Defence if you want, but the question to what extent is a good solution for those employees, officials or tenants, and that's why it's a matter of going to such a reduction, and that reduction of possibilities, and it's probably going to be because still those who have complained have succeeded to a greater extent in obtaining these disputes, then the question is really why don't these people have the right to union organisation that would protect these rights, if we have one system that is far more operational than the Ministry of the Interior and this clear thing we're talking about peacetime action and not wartime, especially since I suppose that part of the deviation will have to be accepted sooner or later to stand that provision from 91. For years there has been no political action in the military and the Ministry of Defence but that party membership is incompatible with the belongings of the armed forces, it simply allows most countries to do so so that it is one space if you want to call it, democratisation or those relations, and if it is not in this, it will likely be in another amendment to the Defence Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28519	Thank you very much. The Deputy Defence Minister, Mrs. Vishna Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you first, I would like to thank all of you who have stayed with me in this assembly until these late hours, and I really thank you for all the remarks you have made to us. I can immediately say from this point on that we accept the initiative to consider it on the Defence Committee before the final draft of the law one more time and to try to coordinate it with each other. The Secretary of Defense and I, when we were on the Defence Committee, had already accepted that, for those of you who weren't aware that we had adopted this proposal. Likewise, I agree that the defence issue is not a matter of political parties but definitely should be a matter of consensus in this House because it is still about the defence of the Republic of Croatia. I am now, because it is so late, I will not engage in any individual reasons for the questions you have asked other than those that have somehow touched me, thanks also to Mr Bozinovic's parliamentary representative for the suggestion that we see the greater role of Parliament, and we will definitely consider the proposal to join the Defence Council and the chairman of the Assembly Defence Committee or anyone else in it. We will see what we will do in these discussions with you and with others who are involved in the adoption of this law that we will come to. What Mr. Novak said, unfortunately, the issue of overtime is the question of too few active military personnel. I cannot agree with his claim on the grounds that the matter of overtime, and Mr Baranovic has already been answered by a parliamentary representative, the issue of overtime is not a matter of a small number of people, but a matter of overtime and hours in continuance for more than 8 hours is the issue of the active military service. So, you can't have some person you sent to do a military exercise or send her to a fire-fighting retreat from some place so simply after 8 hours of service to bring someone else to his place. That believe in military service is impossible but that doesn't mean a person won't be involved in her hours spent at work. We just stressed that in a different way, the redistribution of a person's working time will have a different way of working the number of hours they are otherwise allowed by law. Thus, by law, if you have read it provided that individuals will be able to, since it is a double service for a time in intensive training that takes so long, but after that, they will be able to spend some time free, so they will be able to spend at home. That working time also allowed us to redistribute it because it was indeed military service. Furthermore, Mr. Milas is here to honor us, so to speak, the plan to use the armed forces and his proposal to submit the defence minister's plan to the President of the Republic. I'm just going to say that it's a practice in all democratic countries just for the very reason that the minister shot down in this function is supervision and control. Therefore, it will be proposed by the Minister of Defence of the Chief Staff, however, since it is a plan of use, and with your plan of use, it is always about spending money in this way that the Minister of Defence will certainly not make it impossible for any reason but will also monitor and control the plan of use. If I had accepted the concept immediately I would have answered you, so there was another thought about it, which meant that the armed forces agreed to introduce another document called the concept of using the armed forces, then the proposal would have been different. However, since we have not reached agreement on this, this is the legal solution that remains, and I suppose in the proposal that this will remain until the end of our proposal. As for the reduced powers of the Chief of Staff, we really do not believe that the chief of staff's powers are reduced. He definitely stayed in the positions he had regardless of the perception of each of you. For these individual comments via a stenogram we will examine them and we will try carefully to consider them. Mr. Babic, I see that he's trying to look at me is nothing, or I couldn't follow all your remarks, but I'll try them on a stenogram. And if there was one more question, you all asked why, what particular knowledge and skills women must have. Well, here, for example. Doctors, so the person who is a doctor may, in the category of consent, be the person who might be involved with us. That's the answer to that. Because the armed forces already have a lack of doctors at the moment, and this is unfortunately the health system of the Republic of Croatia, and the armed forces have an increased need. Someone here mentioned a national security strategy, Mr. Babiæ you, so the National Security Strategy is not a matter of the Defence Act, unfortunately I can only say it in the current laws is mentioned by the Security System Act so it's not the subject of this. Whether she should have been brought before she did, so behind her these defense laws, we can discuss it. It's for a scientific and academic discussion. It means whether the national security strategy as such should have gone, it has long been brought. We couldn't wait for the laws anymore because they're a priority but I also agree with Mr. Tudjman that strategic documents are what needs to be brought first. However, the question here was what is an egg or a chicken, meaning whether it now adopts a new Defence Act that will define which are fundamental and strategic documents, and then something that is extremely important to us, which is the long-term development plan adopted by the Croatian Parliament, will come behind them. Unfortunately, the long-term development plan that has been adopted has proved to be something that has not been feasible for the reasons that economic opportunities have occurred in the country that have made it impossible for it to be implemented as such. Here's another thank you for your discussion and we will really review all your remarks and we will try to accept them to the greatest extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28521	Thank you, too. Now at 23 o'clock and 25 minutes we have two more replicas. Young Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28522	Thank you very much. Although you did not mention membership in political parties or the right to unions, I suppose that does not mean a prior refusal, and as far as working time, there are still jobs in the Republic of Croatia that work more than 8 hours and a half regularly, among other things, these colleagues here work 12 hours, police, nurses, railway workers. There's a lot that does a lot more than not eight hours, but let's just say I know people who work in a constant 72 hours, and then they have free hours. But if someone makes over 240 hours a month, it's overtime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28523	Second replica, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28524	Well, I apologize for taking the time, but just for a short while, I hope to see you on the board soon, about the plan of use. No one's got anything, I don't mind the minister being that kind of surveillance and consent and everything, but I don't think the plan can go without the Chief of Staff. If he's going to implement it, then he has to propose it, and without the minister, of course, he can't go through without his decision and consent, that's of course. Civilian surveillance, money and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28525	I'm closing the debate and we're terminating the session. Tomorrow we'll start at 9.30 with the bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Breakdown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-30-0.u28526	Proposed defense law, first reading, PZ No. 243, the debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. "1. The proposal for a defense law is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 121 votes for, 3 votes against and 1 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue to work at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It's next - Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, first reading, PZE No. 226 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to give an opening statement? Yeah. Dear Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
