ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44809	My colleagues and colleagues continue with the session. We will discuss: - Proposal for a Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, with the Final Transition of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 425; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure and you received reports at the session. Introductoryly, the Law will be explained by Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport, Mr Zdenko Antešić's infrastructure. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44810	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The adoption of this Act proposes to bring the directives in the area of security of interoperability of the railway system into Croatian legislation in line with the acquis of the European Union. And this Directive No 2004/49 of the EC on railway safety, Directive 2008/57 on the interoperability of the rail system within the Community, Directive 2007/59 on the authorisation of drivers and Directive 2005/47 on the CER Agreement and ETF to certain issues of the working conditions of mobile workers. This Act contains, in part, provisions of existing regulations in the area of railway safety, the Law on Railway Safety and the Law on the Agency for Railway Safety. The law regulates the safety and interoperability of the railway system, the development and security management measures, the conditions for achieving the interoperability of the European Union rail system, the conduct of the railway safety authority, the handling of the accident investigation body, the conditions for the safe management and operation of rail transport, the conditions for carrying out the activities of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings and the conditions for drivers and other executive workers, and the supervision of safety and inspection supervision. The basic responsibility for the safety of the railway system is to infrastructure managers and railway undertakings whose work is regulated and supervised by the Railway Safety Agency. The railway undertaking is required to have a safety requirement for the provision of rail transport services and the infrastructure manager is convinced of safety for the management of the railway infrastructure. Confirmation and assurance of safety determines that the rail carrier and infrastructure manager have established a security management system that achieves the common objectives of EU security through the application of common EU security methods. The proposed Law lays down the basis for achieving technical coherence, reducing obstacles and improving and developing services in international rail transport in the European Union with third countries. A harmonised authorisation procedure for the release into use of infrastructure subsystems and railway vehicles and for the supervision of compliance with basic requirements such as safety, reliability and accessibility, health and the environment protection, technical compliance and accessibility. It contributes to the achievement of interoperability, i.e. the ability of the rail system to safely and continuously traffic trains in the European Union. The legislative proposal transposes the uniform conditions of the European Union for the authorisation of engine drivers for the management of locomotives and trains. The authorisation of the driver shall be demonstrated by a licence showing compliance with health requirements or education and general professional training, as well as a certificate confirming the knowledge of the infrastructure, the ability to drive and the knowledge of the language. And by doing so, the engineer will be, they will be allowed to operate trains across all European Union countries. The Railway Safety Agency shall be the national safety authority within the meaning of European Union rail legislation entrusted with the task of regulating and overseeing the safety of the Croatian railway system. The activities of the Agency shall include tasks related to the safety of the railway system and in particular tasks relating to certificates and assurances of safety, authorisation and other authorisation and supervision and inspection in order to ensure continued compliance with the requirements for the safety of the railway system. The implementation of the prescribed registers and the conduct of other transactions established by law and directly applicable to the regulations of the European Union. The law provides that the Railway Safety Agency will take over inspection tasks from 1 July 2014. The Agency shall ensure that the Agency’s activities are carried out and developed from the Agency’s activity compensation, from the fees paid by railway undertakings at a journeyed train mile from the compensation paid by infrastructure managers per km of track managed by them. The amount of compensation shall be prescribed by the minister's rules. Until its entry into force, the funds shall be provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Research of serious accidents in the railway system as well as accidents and incidents is carried out by an independent investigative body established by the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic, which has therefore been published in the National Journal 54 since 2013. The investigation body shall have at least one main investigator for the railway area which is independent and independent in carrying out its activities. In the event of decisions to launch research for the organisation, implementation, surveillance and reporting of accidents and incidents carried out, and to make safety recommendations. The investigation of the investigating authority shall in no case determine the guilt or liability of the accident or incident and the investigation shall be carried out independently of possible judicial investigations of the same event. The law provided for the possibility of establishing a joint commission of all the participants of the accident or incident with the aim of technical investigation and by no means with a view to determining the guilty and subsequent damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44811	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First in discussion on behalf of the Croatian Labour-Stranka club of representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, Col. Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44812	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Associates. The first thing I have to look at is like all the other laws we've got in these last two days, this procedure that's not only urgent but it's not super urgent. I don't think this is right for one of these not only but the mass of those laws we've got, and let's say this one has 100 and some pages to seriously study and prepare such an object I don't think is quite realistically possible in such a short time. I don't know if you've noticed, it's probably all of us that we have a mass directive numbered in each of these laws and that's to comply with those directives. Yesterday on the board, I asked the question where have those directives been published so far? I received an answer from 1.7 will be published on the EU's Croatian-language pages among all other languages. But what about the ones so far? where have these directives been published? And we have a mass of laws that have applied to EU directives. And that would not be questionable if those directives were properly translated. However, we have had the experience that they're pretty sloppy, and I'm not going to say some of the directive's malicious translation quite wrong. As a result, there were probably more, but as a result, let's say that we passed the law under which the obligation was to divide the Croatian railways as it was done. However, the EU directive does not impose this at all. So we have done something to ourselves that is an obligation stemming from the EU directive, and that is not true at all. Whether it was made up in thought, targeted by me, I can't argue but I must admit that all of this somehow suggests that there's what they say there's smoke and there's fire. At first glance, it may not be in direct connection, but I need to remind you of some more cases of policy-spreading and economic consequences. If you remember he used to be a maritime, transport and communications minister, I think that was the official name, Mr. Ivica Mudrinic, it came through the law to divide the HPTs at the time into HP and HT. The more profitable part of Croatia's telecommunications was won for the man in charge of the ministry at the time of the division. I am glad that a colleague who is an expert on HP is there, so he can confirm that, at the time of the adoption of the Law on the liberalisation of postal traffic, a man who, if I am not mistaken then was a state secretary suddenly ended up as one of the main people of one of the competing companies who still today is causing problems to HP unfair competition, there are disputes about it, but HP is not going to go out on the green branch with it. At the time when this law was passed, which does not actually cover the HZ division law, which does not actually have coverage in EU directives in the ministry, was a man who later ended up as the head of HZ infrastructure. HZ infrastructure as a legal successor received all the real estate available in the Republic of Croatia, but it received almost complete public procurement. You know well that today as soon as the public procurement is mentioned that it is not to say almost so synonym about some malfeasances, I will not say crime, but at least the possibility of something like that. Whether our history of this law or this problem has something to do with it or not, I leave it to you. As far as the text of this law is concerned, yesterday I asked the committee the same question of Article 119, which states how an investigation is conducted, not in what way the investigation is conducted, but as an investigator, so I received the answer that it is a common practice in Europe to be conducted by an inspector and, as a rule, five lawyers. I have consulted with colleagues whose primary job it is not to take the right to be the only one who knows something about it, is the established practice in Europe. But let's be honest, in Europe they have come through a series of processes, and overnight we create a situation that one investigator who's an investigator from the profession will carry on the ground with five lawyers. Big companies that are interested, let's just say a DB German sure won't send a lawyer on the ground that someone can't say "overruled" just like that. I think it might be possible because the directive isn't banned, this is something that's certain but it's not impossible to expand that part in some way, that it's not just one man that we can deal with because I'm afraid we've brought this individual into an awkward situation. I also now asked the question of what to do with internal controls, or investigating committees. They are abolished by this law, such an option is lifted, but what about those events, accidents, extraordinary events that do not have the severity of accidents, severe accidents. In that case, this should be agreed between infrastructure managers, carriers and possibly third parties that could be of the technical profession, meaning maintenance of the railway, maintenance of SS devices. As soon as you allow something to be agreed there is no solution, it has to go to someone who will bring, cut and say you can't agree, it'll be that way. I'm afraid this part will create problems in the very functioning of the Croatian Railways system because not all of them, thank God not all of them, are just serious accidents. You also have those that don't say banal failures like no turnabouts, don't close ramps and stuff like that. I must conclude that like all other laws relating to or regulations relating to railways, this too goes to the detriment of our operators, or our national carriers. I don't understand why it's being systematically done, but obviously that's the way it's been plotted and that's how it has to be done. Article 16(3) lays down additional burden on operators. It'll be paid, it'll be set aside to pay for this agency. Operators who are now in front of bankruptcy, operators who can't function normally, operators whose politics is conducting everything and... who have brought these kind of management personnel who won't say they don't know the train from anything else, but I'm not that far from it. What's that fee going to be, whether it's going to burden so many extra operators that I suppose it won't, but it would be convenient to define it, at least to give some limits, some framework, not to be like this, will be determined one day. In paragraph 5, the Agency shall be authorised, in accordance with market conditions, to draw up its own pay system in order to obtain appropriate professional staff. Well, I think the term is totally missed. You do not acquire professional staff thanks to good pay, you can attract them, quality, professional staff, but that you will acquire it I do not know exactly that the term itself is correct. And I'm questioning these market conditions under which the agency will determine its salaries. Whether it will happen that the agency, which is very likely, only the director of the agency gets paid by the government's decision, and whether all other employees at the Agency will have very high salaries, so if it is not possible for operators to touch, pay, in which case it burdens the state budget directly and they are satisfied, and how it is not important for everyone else anyway. It is further stated that in the case of an economic disturbance or more force, it is precisely that they will be taken over, that the state budget will take over some of their salaries, which I think is illogical, then it is said that if the infrastructure manager cannot ensure the banal quality of the infrastructure will disable it, it will simply be withdrawn from the management permit. And who we punished with that, again, operators. Well, that's a paradox, I think. Someone makes a mistake, and you punish the other. So the mass of these things actually go to the harm of the operators but I don't understand why and why. I'm going to mention another case a little bit that is, that we're not just going through history and it doesn't turn out that we're just attacking one side, although this other one has a part in that former term. You remember all the DEAKI cases that about a year ago were actual or maybe a little bit more, and then you remember all the media signs that the purchase of DIOKI's colossus had to buy HZ-Cargo, that purchase had to be made by HZ-Cargo. I can't argue whether it's true what the media published, but it was directly on the orders of the current Finance Minister, Mr Linic, I can't even claim that it's true that it was bought for 17 million kuna, but it was written by the media, no one denied it. I know what my colleagues say because I've been working with them, that the real value of that track is questionable whether it's even a million kunas, but let's say it's 2. Today's the Cargo before the sale, before the bankruptcy. Will someone be responsible for such moves? Is it accurate that HZ Carga's management intended to sell 3,000 wagons to settle new debts, not old debts? There are old debts, especially since this division that we were talking about was done at the expense of the operator. But what about these new debts, who's going to be responsible for it? No one. We will simply conclude that such an operator who cannot maintain himself simply does not need us. Who'd we do the damage to? Croatia, our people, is irrelevant. Another clear detail of this story about the operator’s harm done, i.e. not taking what should be done. You all remember the sad and tragic accidents in the Rudins that had human lives for the consequences, the loss of human lives. She had some more consequences. The replacement transport had to be financed by HZ passenger transport. This replacement transport, I think, cost over a million kuna, but as long as the investigation is not complete, it cannot be charged to HZ passenger transport by anyone. And now we're talking about how incompetent this HZ passenger transport or HZ Cargo is. And who put him in this situation? The people appointed by politics and who don't even do things, just don't work out whether it's lazy, incompetence, sloppyness, it's absolutely irrelevant. What matters is what's after, and the consequence is that we're losing our national operators. Well, I don't know if there's another country, and I only know about Argentina that got rid of the railroad, but I hope that's not an example we're going to be dealing with. And I know of the UK that privatized its railways to buy them out in a far worse state after 10 years, but at a far higher price. So is that really what we want? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44813	Thank you. It's the HDZ and colleague Ivan Shuker's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44814	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, regardless of what we agreed as a club with the proposal of the President of the Croatian Parliament to put these points of the agenda on the agenda and to discuss them and to practically pass today because of the legal deadline, I must express my dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction with the last hour of our laws as if no one in the ministry knew that 1.7. Croatia is entering the EU and has certain regulations that we need to comply with. Why? Because this law, according to the Deputy Minister, he explained it quite Benefitably as if HZ had no problem, as if the infrastructure and regulation on HH was purely ok, there was nothing to be invested. We can apply EU rules immediately. However, when you look at this law, then you will see that it is not exactly so and the question is, who will be responsible if God does not give up tomorrow? We all know what the situation is with HZ infrastructure, and there we can be monitored no matter what political option he wants. However, I remember and I will say it openly here, after all it was said in this House when I was Minister of Finance, then in the state budget it was foreseen for Croatian railways 2 billion and 900 million kuna. Today's minister, Mr Linic, at the time, expressed great dissatisfaction with how little money it is, that nothing will be done in HZ, etc. But look. In 2013 budget for HZ billion and 320 million. So, a billion and 500 million kunas less with the fact that, in the meantime, in HH, unfortunately nothing has changed qualitatively. Infrastructure remained the way it is, passenger transport remained the way it is, freight transport is the way it is and let's not expect HZ freight transport has nothing to do with the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. An ordinary layman if he doesn't see the freight wagons on the track and if he doesn't see the speedboats on the highway knows that the economic activities in that country are nothing. And he doesn't need any macro and micro economic indicators. Look at the developed countries. Wherever you come, the highways are full of speedboats, trucks, and rails are quite the way the freight wagons are going. So it's a fact that we can't escape from. To this day, we do not know what we will do with the key railway Rijeka – Zagreb – Botovo, a railway that is not only important for rail transport, but also with the railway that is important for the port of Rijeka. And in Rijeka's port and that's what I want to say, there have been hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars invested in Rijeka's port over the past ten years. So I've been talking for ten, twelve years. So the projects that began then would simply become the port of Rijeka before the war. But the port of Rijeka can't be what it was before the war unless it's a low-rise track, and we just have to be aware of that. In 2005, a project, a restructuring programme of the Croatian Railways, was launched with the World Bank. The working ratio of the Croatian Railways was then 1:2.85. And you know what that means? On one kuna earned by Croatian railways from the state budget so that they can exist and keep minimum maintenance of the infrastructure, 2 kunas and 85 from the state budget should be invested. This process lasted several years and this working ratio was reduced somewhere to 1.80 and then stopped with it and frankly speaking today is very difficult to say at all what this ratio is. I think it's 1:2.85 again. But colleagues and colleagues, so to propose such a law and so nice as to say people without cramping on their faces and write for the implementation of this law, it is not necessary to provide additional financial resources in the state budget that are simply ridiculous. Are we to say that the rail infrastructure and safety of rail transport in the Republic of Croatia is at such a level that we do not need to invest additional funds to satisfy these EU directives? If that's how it is then it's great, then someone should say it here. And if we don't think we're going to provide funding in the state budget but we're going to give guarantees, you know that such a way that I say risk guarantees have to be attached when a state budget is brought in and they're potential public debt in some future time if the one you gave the state guarantee doesn't start to repay the loan then it has to be returned by the state. And I'm going to take a quick picture of myself on the shipbuilding. Some say they didn't know nine billion kunas were to be given to shipbuilding. All these guarantees given to shipbuilding are neatly shown in the proposal for a state budget and are shown neatly in the implementation of the state budget. As well as this guarantee to HZ, EUROSTAT will rely on its assessment on us to account for the level of public debt... And he can even count on us for the deficit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's another possibility of funding. And the third possibility of funding is EU funds. So, I understand that according to a rough assessment of the ministry, no funds will be provided in the state budget, but if this will work HZ Infrastructure they will have to get the state guarantee, so it is a potential debt and most likely debt because HZ Infrastructure will not be able to repay that loan alone. So that's one thing. And the third thing is EU funds. If we believe that we have made projects, if HZ Infrastructure has made projects and these projects have run towards the EU, then it should also be indicated that the funds will be provided in EU funds. So, there's nothing written here. Perhaps if the Deputy Minister had said I repeat we are all aware of the difficult situations in the railways and here there is no transfer to Mr Doncic or this government, the problems existed before and as they existed from 2000 to 2003 and as they existed before. Unfortunately, much of the railway infrastructure was in occupied areas and much of that railway infrastructure was mined. For example, the Sisak-Sunja railway is practically trained, demining only 2000. The year, and the Storm ended in '95. Therefore, the use of this infrastructure has led to certain damages. So, as I said in the draft budget, a billion and 860 million were foreseen for the development of railway infrastructure, then this rebalanced budget was reduced to a billion and 320 million, subsidies were 330 million and construction of rail infrastructure 160 million. Therefore, it clearly states the potential of the budget. But it is crucial that nowhere in this bill, no matter what we are talking about harmonising with the EU, we do not see what the minimum means are to meet the minimum that we can meet the EU directives. So that's not there. However, what is particularly interesting is that of course another agency is established and the agency is said to be responsible for security in terms of EU rail legislation which is entrusted with the tasks and regulation of the surveillance of the common system of the Republic of Croatia. Look, this is Article 9(1), which is beautifully written that the agency should work, and whether given the existing situation of infrastructure there is a man in this country who will head the agency, assumes responsibility in accordance with EU directives for which at that time he knows that this does not satisfy even 20, 30% of the needs in most of the roads, or a man takes over, which is if, according to the estimates of that head man, the agency says that line should be closed due to uncertainty. What's the reaction? You know that the biggest problem, and that Mr. Deputy Minister well knows some of us here in the assembly, is that many railways are unfortunately purely for political reasons. Because of the fact that the railroad won't be lifted and the booze stays, but as long as he's making losses, it doesn't matter to anyone. So the only question is, what happens if this man issues such a solution? Let's just say some railroad stock is closed, for the safety of the trains can't drive. We had opportunities to see in the media a bridge on perhaps the busiest railway track, which leads towards the Serbian border, which is about to collapse. And what happens if the head man of that agency looks at that painting and because of his responsibility, because he's responsible for it, issued an order to close that section of rail because of that bridge? And then they'll tell him no, you can't, it's a very important direction, etc. So, simply certain provisions are in total collegiate with what we have in the field. And finally, to finish it is a special article 16. Therefore, you, those who do not have money but simply cannot, not that they cannot live, cannot breathe, and what little food catches to survive without a state budget, therefore we impose additional obligations on this law, and so we say in Article 16(2) of the Agency’s work development means that the Agency will be provided with compensation from the Agency’s activity. Now you need to see what these activities are and who will pay for these activities. From the fees paid by railways at a mileage. Now you can think that HZ at these moments HH transport can pay any extra fee, and so they are now in fat losses. And from the fee paid by infrastructure managers per km of track which they manage. So the infrastructure manager is at this point the HZ Infrastructure which is due we will no longer tell who Greece is but is obliged above all criteria and all norms. So we wrote it nicely in the law, we put it nicely, we wrote it nicely, and that there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget. We have been in line with the directives of the European Union, but what is not nice is that these railways are ours, yet these railways are ours, yet in these railways there are tens of thousands of employees who are Croatian citizens and there are thousands of workers who work for co-operatives and in companies that work for HZ. And you know well that Djuro Djakovic, one part of Djura Djakovic that there is no car building towards HZ, has now begun at the expense of what they did well for HZ to do cars and simply cannot exist for someone else. Therefore, this is not just one issue to be brought into line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the directives of the European Union. First of all, this is a very, very important economic issue. Because "Djuro Djakovic" is practically "Cončar" the only metal giant in Croatia that lives and exists. One part of it exists and because HZ works, although frankly speaking probably HZ once paid a higher price just to satisfy it, it is said "to be a wolf full and a goat whole". And finally what all European countries are doing to keep the money in the country it's in. The Gredell is in the situation he's in, and it was the same... only on HH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this is no criticism, because everyone in the government simply knows what the problem is. We tried to bring out, in the name of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, just to say, some of the problems that you well know exist. And the problems we just can't deal with, and we can't... Because watch when there's an accident and material damage, it's a tragedy, and when there's an accident with human victims, it's an immeasurable tragedy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And let's not be smart and call someone when there's a tragedy, but let's be smart and try to find a model and a way for these railroads and what can work in a quality way. And be sure those of Brussels will not be merciful to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44815	Thanks, buddy. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Young Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44816	Thank you very much. You mentioned security as the basis of each transport, the most important item and absolutely on certain Croatian railway lines is something that is ideal, 100% safety on these tracks has been suspended. What, unfortunately, what I actually came up for, you mentioned the situation of the Croatian Railways, you mentioned primarily as the biggest problem, which is the biggest problem, the situation with HZ Cargo. I mentioned in my discussion, i.e. the question of the possibility of announcement, administration, HZ Cargo selling 3,000 wagons. If that's true, those 3,000 wagons are cars that are relatively new, they're not maintained for the reason that we shut down all these workshops or reduced them to a minimum so that they can't maintain railway cars anymore. And practically now we come into a situation let's borrow, they'll buy, we'll sell that HZ Cargo that'll be under state guarantee. And what are we doing? It's obvious someone's getting lucky, who and why? Another form of destruction of HZ Cargo is the new administration. You can check that information, the Agency's evidence of regulation of the railway market is written inside HZ Cargo. The lawyer house that just put her logo upstairs charged that service on two occasions between 100 and 150 thousand kuna. The fees for the routes. Last year, I showed the Slovenian government's document which frees Slovenian road charges operators. Just last year, I'm in last year if I'm not mistaken to get rid of one part of the operator. But that's the national policy of all countries. Why are we running away from it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44817	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44818	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Novak, that's why I was on behalf of the HDZ Club talking about real problems and financial resources. Because this law simply cannot be written differently than it is, it is prescribed obligations under European Union directives. The question arises, however, of the one who starts implementing the Law tomorrow, so what is his tool to implement the Law. The railroad, the wagon is the tool of the head man of the law enforcement agency. Let's banalize that thing to the end. And if you don't have the means to invest in the railroad, if you don't have the means to invest in trains, if you don't have the means to invest in new locomotives, you automatically release security to the lowest possible level. These are facts we can't escape from. And it's not just this government problem, and I'm going to repeat that, so that's the problem that's going on. We can even tell for decades. But the problem is that when we pass this Law on this problem, it simply needs to be answered. For the reason that even tomorrow, if some laws were passed to talk about this problem, that the problem was solved. But not to say how important this railway part is to the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Because I only mentioned one segment that's the port of Rijeka. And I got one big metal giant, it's Djuro Djakovic. What happens to us if tomorrow HZ Cargo buys us someone else and buys cars in Smedereva or Slovakia. Why am I talking to Smeder? Because they have an iron mill there and have in the interest of their steel which is practically raw material to turn into a quality product and hire their own people and cash it in. And "Djuro Djakovic" must buy steel because it is not on the world market is a logical thing that at that moment it is in a more unfavourable position both from Slovakia and Serbia. Therefore, we must not only view this matter as technical harmonisation of legislation with the European Union but as something far, far more important, far, far more important.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44819	Replica Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44820	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you mentioned the rightly important Corridor 5... So the river-Zagreb-Botovo railway line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's really amazing, and we've been saying that a lot of times in HDZ, it's amazing that this government has given up on the low-level railroad, on the single project. I stress here, it is the only project of the investment Republic of Croatia that Croatia can put on a global picture. So this is a project that has potential now that we are entering the European Union thanks to Luci Rijeka and not only Luci Rijeka and other sea ports, but in this case when we talk about a low-level railway station, presented to Croatia, Croatia can become a new entry point on the market of 500 million inhabitants. Otherwise, ministers who have finally started travelling around the world in recent months, thus representing the Republic of Croatia. I have seen documents, so Croatia has a new entry point on the market of 500 million people, i.e. in the European Union. So now that we're going to become a new entry point without a new modern railroad, it's certainly not a reconstruction of the old railroad. Not to tell you that the former government had a low-level railway on the list of strategic projects. Some investors, serious investors, I won't name them here, come and invest in Croatia today with the knowledge that it should have been built. So let's get serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44821	Replicate response, Ivan Shuker, or sign up another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44822	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, my colleague Milosevic, I didn't happen to mention the river-Zagreb-Botovo or Botovo-Zagreb-Rijek, however he will, but it is nicer to say Rijeka-Zagreb-Botovo for reasons only to say so, but therefore, the economic Luka Rijeka cannot exist without this railroad. But here we are talking about security, and we know that it is on that railway that may be the most important for the Republic of Croatia's economy that has seen several accidents in the last 2-3 years, several accidents. So that track on the one hand is economically important to us, on the other hand it's safe at a very low level. And therefore, this is why this draft law cannot in any way be written to provide additional financial resources in the state budget. That's just funny. If nothing is to be said, the projects will be financed from EU funds, but it must simply be indicated that for the implementation of this law, so that it could be implemented, that whoever comes to the head of the agency and implements this law must be invested in infrastructure in order to raise security to a higher level. So I know that maybe it sounds to some like we're giving someone lessons now, no, these are facts, facts for both HDZ and SDP, so the two biggest political parties that are, one of them is in power now, one of them was before, but that's just the problem that's ahead of us and that we're going to have to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44823	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44824	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you said no qualitative changes occurred in the railway infrastructure. I think they happened, but with a negative sign. Well, the best illustration will show the fact that 30 years ago it took a train to reach Belgrade less time than it did today to reach Vinkovac. It best shows the condition, but it's one tendency and a long-term attitude towards the railroad. And the proposal for this law and the shortness of time they also warned about shows that here it's as if it's not about the law and it's like there's an idyllic state. It's a long way from the idyll. Well, we can't have this law on both the parent committees and the Parliament in two days and vote it out in two hours here. For example, for the purpose of organising a celebration of Croatia's entry into the European Union, it has been sitting here for days in the next hall, not coming out from morning till night, unless they have to go to the bathroom and have not finished yet. And we should discuss this important law in two minutes or half an hour. It's just impossible. Therefore, it is no wonder that it is happening that the administrative council is appointed to be 5 years after the proposal of this law, and the director is appointed to 4 years, that they cannot be taken into account that it cannot be in the board of directors or directors, that it cannot be someone who is in conflict of interest, that someone who has remained in debt to the state for unpaid contributions, that it cannot be someone who is retired because it has taught us all so far that it has often reached out to us that young people are increasingly highly educated without a job, and some are retired as directors and members of the boards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44825	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44826	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Maric, therefore you too have pointed out what is crucial in the law. It is crucial that on page 3, the reasons of this law, and it is necessary financial resources, because in order to make this law in general, that those people who will let it go now and the administrative council and the agency and the collection of money from which the agency will work rather than ask the question of what these people will do and how they can even take responsibility for something that, unfortunately, is in such a situation that the head man of the agency could practically put red on 80% of the line. Now I'm likely to be attacked by HH unions, but that's the fact that it is. Therefore, we cannot escape from this and should simply state in the light of this law that Croatia has to invest so much and so much money in some period. And if the Polish from the EU funds could make a practical recovery of their railway, then one of the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia in the next 3-4 years must be to secure from the EU funds for the practical restoration of railway infrastructure and will also employ the economy. And let's let go of the big stories about big investments in the Republic of Croatia. It is after the road construction of another big investment that will employ tens of thousands of people, only we have to recognize it as strategic and on the one hand in the first part we will hire people who will make that part, and on the other hand this infrastructure will do this all together. Because, look, the projects said today are huge building giants in the problem, that after one big expansion of road construction, there will have to be a move of that construction mechanism to the railway infrastructure and in such a way practically ensure that the building potential can be invested in the Republic of Croatia. Because if you look at it, they're the biggest problem today, the biggest problem is that they have nothing to do anymore because the state doesn't invest, the state doesn't work on the highway towards Sisak, the state doesn't do this, the state doesn't do that and the logical thing that these companies are in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44827	Thank you. Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44828	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here are just a few final words. I'd like to thank the gentlemen of the MPs for their good observations. From this everything actually comes confirmation of how much our rail system is in trouble. It's definitely and it's actually perhaps the most acidic apple this government has eaten and what the government of Ivica Racan has been committed to road construction, so building a road network with which, of course, we can be proud today, regardless of all the recommendations that may have followed these activities in some stages. We have one of the most modern road networks in Europe, and we can be proud of that. The government's commitment is now directed towards the railroad. Of course, the backbones of road network construction are the main highway routes, which is the direction of the 10th Corridor 5B that have entered the network, so the pan-European network of corridors, the main European corridors, and thus, of course, the possibility of funding from EU funds opens up in a very high percentage. On that trail, I am pleased to say that from the Skradnik to the Hungarian border is already intensively working on, some call it a low-level railroad. So, it works intensively on designing almost the entire route, and on one part of the course is already running works. On this second part of Skradnik to Rijeka, so on this second part of Skradnik to Rijeka, the approach to rebuilding the railway line towards Rijeka is two directions. The first part, therefore, is the restoration of existing railways by repairing certain elements, so building some new tunnels, improving the geometry of the railway, so by reducing the rise, etc., by raising its permeable power to a level that can meet the needs of the final construction of the Rijeka port, which is therefore the final construction of the Brajdica terminal and the Zagreb coast. And by building the final, final construction of the two ports in Rijeka, so Brajdica and Zagreb coast freight ports only then the need opens, the need for the construction of so-called so-called "Bradica" is created. The level playing field has therefore been defined for such an approach because at this point it is simply not possible at this stage, at this point it is not possible to go into the construction of the so-called The plain stripes with a large tunnel beneath the chapel. I must also be pleased to say that last year, finally, so finally, the power plant from Moravica to Rijeka is now actually completed this section towards the border with the Republic of Slovenia, so we have finally now a unique system of electrical pulls 25 kW, 50 Hz which has been neglected for years. I can also tell you about the railroad from personal experience because before that, from the '80s to the '85. For years, I've been working as a young engineer and then as a railway manager and I can personally testify how neglected this system is, how eroded it is, how failed it really is. And what you're saying is that 99% agree with you, it's simply a neglected system, an unfairly neglected system. Because the railroad is, in fact, the blood flow of a country's economy, and I assure you that here is the rail restructuring programme in the whole that is already being implemented, that they are going to start, that is, intensive activities have already started to revitalise primarily this river traffic route or so on. 5B corridors because the development of the river route depends definitely on the economic future of the Republic of Croatia. Because by opening up, by attracting large operators, i.e. goods, cargo and the world to the port of Rijeka as a port, so as the door of entry of goods through Croatia towards the market of Europe and by developing the corresponding transport infrastructure, I mean primarily on the railway. In addition to it, economic zones and other activities are of course developed further, which will deliver great results in their multiplicity effects. So once again, I'm just stressing the fact that the development of the river's transport route is the so-called railway route. Corridor 5B, the government's priority task, and it will insist that it be fully realised. And in fact, you're not only talking with these papers, but you're doing it seriously. In order not only to remain inexplicably several things that have been highlighted here, which is when it comes to the investigative commission referred to in Article 109, that is, Article 119, that is, Article 109, Article 109, that is, the investigative body under which it will be the lead investigator for the railway area, but in Article 119, here is the possibility, or foresees, that the lead investigator hires a lot of others, so a lot of other persons of different profiles that will help him in his investigative activities in order to determine the best possible facts. And another thing that was mentioned in this section, which is the agency and some kind of persuasive thoughts about the establishment of the agency. I just have to remind myself that the agency was founded in 2008 and was thus announced a decision to establish it in the National Journal 120/08. and in fact it has lived since 2010, and in fact this agency, which is covered by this law, is only expanding its activities in terms of controlling, or improving the safety of the railway system. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44829	Thank you. Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44830	Thank you very much. I like what you said about this government's orientation on the railroads. However, I must remind you that the railways are not only VB and X. Corridor so-called. corridors that are not actually corridors anymore, as you yourself said, but also local railways that depend on the local population, but also local economy. As far as I've had the opportunity to see, there's no plan, or the possibility of withdrawing funds from the EU funds for these railways is not seen. I know that there is no possibility in the same way because Europe is interested in having a reserve direction, because this is a reserve direction. X Corridor is actually just a reserve direction in case of need compared to IV Corridor, this VB corridor far more will be needed in case that... the port works at full capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But local railways are what means a lot more to us in the domicile population. Now, if we don't find a way to engage here, and there's a possibility, EU funds, then unfortunately your orientation towards the railroad is just a declarative character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44831	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44832	Final draft safety and interoperability law of the railway system, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 425. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 120 votes to pass the P.Z.E. Act. the number 425 in the text proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44833	And we move on to - Final proposal of the Road Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 426; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antešić. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44834	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few words about this law. The conditions and methods of carrying out the activities of the transport of passengers and freight in road transport, as well as other accompanying activities such as the provision of stationary services, the agency's activity in road transport, were governed by the applicable Road Transport Act adopted in 2004 and amended and amended on several occasions in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, and on two occasions in 2010. That law is in line with the provisions of a number of secondary sources of EU law, regulations and Directives, a more precise process of harmonising the applicable law with EU regulations has already been completed by the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2008 Road Transport Act, but since a new set of regulations have been adopted in the EU at the end of 2009 which lay down common rules governing the conditions for access to the activity of road hauliers and access to the market for international road transport of freight and passengers in order to join the Republic of Croatia's EU must be brought into line with the current law. In addition, given the fact that the EU regulations will apply directly in our legal system from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to ensure that new regulations are properly implemented and implemented. This is also the main reason for the adoption of the new Road Transport Act. Basically, the final proposal for a law retains the structure of the road transport system as well as the applicable road transport law. It regulates the conditions for the performance of road transport activities, conditions and competences of the licensing authority or of the authorisation to carry out activities, professional training of drivers, types and conditions of carrying out the activity of passengers, conditions for carrying out the activity of freight transport, conditions and method of carrying out the activities of the provision of stationary services, conditions and method of carrying out the agency's activity in road transport, keeping records and reporting. The law also introduces a new form of public transport of passengers, so-called "shuttle transport", i.e. the transport of passengers between airports and the city centre or hotel, and the possibility of public transporting passengers to vehicles with 7+1 and 8+1, respectively, which has not been allowed so far, and there was a need to transport such vehicles primarily during tourist seasons. Also introduced is the county liner transport of passengers through county concessions. This bill also contains provisions which comply with Directives 2003/59 on initial qualifications and periodic training of drivers. The same provisions have been incorporated into the current law but their application has been delayed until the date of accession. Under the provisions of this law, all professional drivers of freight vehicles and buses will have to have initial qualifications and be trained every five years through periodic training. Vehicle drivers and drivers carrying out public transport of passengers in vehicles requiring a driver’s licence B category and drivers of freight vehicles and buses carrying out transport for their own needs will have initial qualifications but will not have to pass periodic education. So far, drivers carrying out cargo transport by vehicles above 3.5 tonnes of the largest permissible mass, bus drivers, and taxi drivers had to have an SSS in the driver's profession, which means they had to pass a regular three-year career education for the driver but did not have to go to periodic education. Now drivers will have the opportunity to acquire their initial qualification in a shorter time. As regards the performance of road transport activities of passengers and freight, I consider it necessary to highlight the following, in accordance with the regulations and in this proposal, the carriers carrying out international freight transport will have to have a Community licence instead of the current licence for international road transport. The Community licence shall be issued with a period of up to 10 years, and the conditions for issue shall be met continuously during its validity. From 1 July 2013, all carriers will be able to carry out cargo transport between Member States without any additional permits and restrictions on the basis of a Community licence. Until now, almost all Member States have needed permits to carry out transport, and carrying out transport from a country has been a constant problem, for example, for Italy and Austria. As regards transport between Member States and third countries or non-member countries, such transport will be carried out through bilateral contracts with individual Member States until a specific contract has been concluded between the EU and third countries. The cabotage in freight transport, since the EU has requested a transitional period to carry out cabotage for two plus two years during that period, Croatian carriers must not make cabotage in the Member States and cabotage in the Republic of Croatia is also prohibited for carriers from other Member States. In accordance with EU regulations and the law on the transport of passengers in international road transport, they will be carried out on the basis of a Community licence for the transport of passengers. The travellers' licence shall be issued with a period of up to 10 years, provided that all conditions are met during the validity of the licence. As regards market access, regular line transport still requires permits. Specific line transport does not require licences but it is necessary to have a contract between the transport organiser and the carrier. The occasional transport of passengers shall be carried out without authorisation with the relevant passport control document. In the transport of passengers, cabotage is permitted for the following services, for the services of special line transport of passengers provided that these services are provided on the basis of contracts concluded between the organisers and the carriers and the occasional transport of passengers as part of the international transport service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44835	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Work and fellow Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44836	Dear Deputy Associates. This is not because the topic is not interesting and it is not important. That's because we get the law yesterday half an hour before the board gets the materials, so let's get ready and discuss it. The last one had, if I'm not wrong, 107 pages, and this one doesn't have much less, so now we can discuss how good the debates are here, what is the reputation of this House, which is why we can pretend that we are making some decisions. We don't make any decisions, this is first of all happening again that I guarantee that none of you sitting here that hasn't read this law, I guarantee it. It was read possibly by those who were on the board yesterday just to check out something that might be holding them back that they know is problematic so that they could turn their attention to that part. In this way, I must be honest and admit that I also read the details that it itch me not to say, so I noticed that now and this is said in the debate yesterday that the introduction of concessions is, or now we have the possibility and the permits and concessions of line transportation. I guess someone knows what the difference is, but I have to be honest, so I'm not too clear about it except that a five-year licence for a line-carrying concession for seven years. Whether it's the only difference or not, I'd like someone to explain it to us. It's not necessary that we're all experts so it's understood that we know but it would be good if we were already in this debate. It's a seven-year concession issue. We're talking about, among other things, public transport. Do any of you know how much a bus costs? Do any of you know how much a truck costs to transport passengers? Are you sure it's seven years to pay off, is that it? Is this the basis of which we begin to discuss the concession, someone who is acceptable to it and in agreement with those who call the concession, then we get in half a year, a year, two, we get an amendment to the Law that the concession can be for 20 years? So someone who had their far more valuable transport, the means of transport entered this story, entered this story at a small door. Whether it is or not, I don't know if it has happened knowingly, but I don't know why we left such holes in the law at first. I don't know, I don't think it's necessary for us to open our own hips at first. There's one more thing that only reminds me of the area I come from when I read this Law. The area of Banije or Banovina, the area of the lower Posavina, and even these Upper Posavina, which we call from Sisak upstream to Zagreb, the area of Pokuplje. These are areas that have absolutely no transportation whatsoever. Let's say there was a time-traveling taxi ride that was a taxi, he had a taxi tag, but it was a bus ride with vans, privates, small craftsmen who got into that story with far more modest means, but they were competitive with those old mastodons from the former system who only had buses. These buses are more expensive to maintain, and more consumption is theirs. And it's normal for them to fall out in that race. But by law, we allowed it to be an unequal race. As it is possible for taxi transport to be granted a licence, it shall receive a concession for transport on a specific line. And it stands in all bus stops where the regular line stands. What a competition it is. What is the possibility of someone with a bus to compete who has to pay for everything he has to pay for, to compete with those private car drivers who are actually registered as a taxi? As a result of the collapse of these autocar companies, the ones we know from the old days, so now all these really inert areas, the non-erable lines remain completely unrelated. Let's face it, we have a colleague Ivanka who knows that, if I'm not just wrong about the current line of Sisak-Petrinj held by privates, I think it's three privates. And "Slaviatrans" failed, car traffic there no longer works, I don't know, auto traffic Court as it was already called, they've failed. But you have a situation today that you have one Court at the state border. There's one single daily line in 24 hours that connects it to the rest of the world. You have an area of the Croatian Kostanica, for example, which even the HH from the previous agenda point has turned its back on, so they have no connection except for a couple of morning lines or two if I am not mistaken. What does one who does and has no job down there, who works in Sisak or Zagreb, has nothing to return with unless he has his own transport. Well, I don't know if it's necessary for us all of these laws that we're making small concessions to someone or something without taking care of it, I'd say it's still the global interests of the Republic of Croatia, do we really want all these areas to be completely uninhabited, that there's no one there anymore. Who's in the interest of who, and why? I think that the employers' association, too, I expected that someone from the HDZ Club would come forward on this point, given that the Employers' Association sent everyone a letter to which I would wait a little while longer, against this particular taxi ride on the routes, and I think that, however, those from another aspect, they say that they are now a real taxi that those original taxi drivers would tell me that they are threatened by this line-up of truck transport. I think if there's anything else to worry about, that segment is also being threatened this way. Some protective mechanisms could have been made to get into this story, why not, I don't even doubt good intentions. But this is the consequence that those of us who cannot prepare ourselves quality for the debate, as well as you, who must prepare all these acts on return application. And people are also thinking that they're getting into a situation that they're doing something I don't know in 24 hours you need to do, it's not exactly 24 hours, but in a very short time you need to make some law that's exceeded, which has a head and tail. I don't think that's real to expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44837	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44838	Thank you very much. Mr. Novak, you mentioned the concession, which is what I wanted to replicate to the deputy minister, so the vice president didn't see it anyway. Article 34 provides that public line transport of passengers on cross-border and county lines is to be carried out on the basis of a licence. Exceptionally, this may be based on a concession and this is something new in this Law. I mean, if it's something new and it's being introduced that wasn't necessary to explain and that's why it's being introduced. So there is no explanation of why concessions are introduced, what is the reason and what will be achieved. When it comes to licences, articles shall in particular define the conditions for issuing a licence, where the licence may cease before the period of validity and the possibility of extension of the licence. And when it comes to concessions, there is no explanation, under which conditions a concessionary may receive a concession, which the conditions must satisfy, which, after the concession has ceased, may be extended or not. When it comes to the concession there is only that it is at 7 years and it would be necessary, well to hear the explanation why it is 7 years and why none of these additional ones are mentioned and why the concession is actually being introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44839	Franco Vidovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44840	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear counterpart Novak, in your debate, you have problemed in principle the county liner transport, or the way in which it is obtained either through a license, or through a concession, which is now introduced, i.e. made possible by this law. It is possible precisely for the reasons you mentioned, Banovina, so there are also in my Sibenik-Knin County a number of areas on which it was simply not possible to carry out transport because there is simply no economic interest in such a thing. So this way, by awarding concessions to 7 years and profitable and non-performable lines will be practically covered, and to the satisfaction of the citizens and I, in any case, welcome this paper in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44841	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44842	Thank you very much. I honestly believe in good intentions, but the road to hell is filled with the same good intentions. The fact is that who will report for a concession for some direction where there are no passengers, i.e. two passengers, three passengers a day. In which way some will, and mostly these are areas where only old people are now left, in which way an ambulance can reach it but an ambulance only comes in certain cases. But in what way he'll go for a regular medical examination, to control. It won't be, unfortunately it won't be solved through this. I wish I was wrong, if you were right, I'd be glad, we'll have a coffee on that, but I'm afraid this isn't even on the trail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44843	Young Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44844	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Novak, you said about giving concessions to buses and taxi services, means personal vehicles 8+1. We're on a committee that you've been talking about, and I think we've started it, and I've started the process of amending the law in this very sense because on the islands with seven passengers, there's a bus to go. Imagine the costs of paying only the ferry, let alone the airport of Korčula, Dubrovnik, or airport, what are your costs when the bus goes for 5 to 7 passengers, that these are extremely high costs. And I think this is meant to be one of... what was negative in that law and I thank the Ministry...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44845	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44846	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Another law that many lives mean, which has been pushed practically at the last minute, so that it could not be debated either by those who will benefit from the provisions of this law or by those who are the provisions of this law, means the future of their economic activity. And yet this law is theoretically more and more envisaged, but unfortunately Croatia is not theoretically envisaged, Croatia is diverse by its development, Croatia is diverse by population and Croatia is diverse by economic possibilities and income opportunities of its population. And what's key to life is exactly that line of transport. We were just talking about the railroad, and we said that many railways, unfortunately, cannot exist. The same story is with a line-up, and what a colleague from the SDP said you simply have certain lines that carry two or three passengers. The rides are crazy, but simply that line must exist because if that line does not exist then there will be no such people, so only when you look at the last 10 years what we have done, and the docks and strengthen the ferry lines towards the Croatian islands have simply moved life on Croatian islands and raised them to a far higher level. So this is one of the key infrastructure activities, the key, because if you can't go to school, if you can't go to work, if you can't go to a doctor, you'll just run away from that place where you can't go. If we have made such a road infrastructure as we have, today in Croatia a distance of 100 km is no distance, therefore you pass practically within an hour and go to work for the 100 km is nothing.... So the team is neither a line-up nor a transport like this, but the problem is Banovina, the problem is Dalmatian Zagora, the problem is individual islands, so the problem is also in Eastern Slavonia. And every year at the beginning of the year, we hear the same story, and that's the problem with the carriage of students. If that transport was carried out at an economic price and what I want to say here openly, that is one of the reasons why I volunteered for the debate on behalf of the club, which is the quality of the bus. I think it's precisely because, especially when it comes to school children, there must be clear conditions that these technical conditions must satisfy, and not that it happens to you when you transport that half the ride opens the back door and that the children are practically more on the stands, that they don't fall out. So that's this purely technical part and that part of life that we simply say how important this law is. However, here are some provisions regarding concessions and as regards line transportation quite strangely defined. Because it's not clear to someone who means a seven-year concession, because if you buy a bus, they can drive on that line if you keep it for 15 years. And which means a seven-year concession to you, which you'll be doing for the next seven years if you get a concession on that part. I'm saying, it's obvious someone's getting the best of them. However, Mr. Deputy Minister, I would like to ask you one direct question on behalf of the club. So, on the government's web pages, it was actually the ministry that saw that article 54 in the text, actually in the draft of the law that was addressed to the government looked quite different from what was adopted, actually what you sent as a proposal. And that's what, unfortunately, smells like something that's not good, smells like some kind of wicked shop, so some people just because they're doing something they can get a job. The others don't have any options. The proposal, then in the draft law addressed to the Government, article 54, reads: "Station 1 of the temporary transport of passengers in road transport is carried out by bus and passenger vehicle 8+1", and now reads: "Transport of passengers between the airport and the city centre, i.e. the hotel can be carried out by a carrier who has a licence for the inner transport of passengers and a licence from the Community for the transport of passengers. The transport may be carried out by passenger vehicles 7+1 and 8+1 respectively". And item 2 is particularly interesting. It states, "The transport referred to in this paragraph may be carried out by a carrier which has a contract with the Airport in whose territory passengers enter and exit, the transport shall be carried out in accordance with the conditions and the price list established by the carrier in agreement with the Airport." So, you're here you will not already legally put someone in a more privileged position than someone. So there's no competition here, because you're practically confirming the current situation. You do not condition by the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 54 that the airport must, given that the public undertaking has to call a public tender and that in that public tender then all are equally competing and based on that public tender, whoever gets the job will have a contract with the Airport. However, the provision of paragraph 2 of Article 54 prejudges in practice that if, at the moment of the contract with the Airport, it continues transport regardless of the price, to the quality, to anything else. So, no, no. You said here a transport operation, actually having a contract with the airport in whose area the passengers... So you didn't define that this is a state of play after a public tender, but you're practically confirming the existing state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You must set a different item in Article 54, otherwise, because in the original proposal you have had the temporary transport of passengers must not contain the repeated elements of line or special line transport such as the relations, the time of departure and arrival, and the place of entry and exit of passengers. In the case of occasional transport, the passenger shall also have a vehicle carrier, etc. That and that. Therefore, it is not mentioned anywhere that transport is carried out by anyone who has an airport contract, and nowhere in this law mentions that a public tender would have to be called. And let me finish. I don't think you've defined in this bill, and we don't understand why you're selling travel tickets. Because you just have to define it, because if you don't define it then you're going to make a show out of the gray economy, sell cards on black and practically sell cards past any control. If you now have a system that defines where they can be sold, i.e. Where citizens can, travellers can buy tickets I don't see why you don't put it into the law now. That's it. I say the law is technically good, but perhaps it has not seen enough all the differences that the Republic of Croatia has and may be its problem in application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44847	Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44848	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you said Croatia is diverse in terms of population and, of course, economic possibilities. And in that part, it is necessary to mention that, of course, our villages are rural areas because of the catastrophic attitude towards agriculture, towards the village in an extremely difficult state. And if this moment is coming with regard to traffic connections, health care, health care availability and everything else that our residents in rural areas can achieve is very questionable and problematic. But there's another moment, and that's traffic safety. We're here, here they've been telling colleagues their examples from their midst, and we've talked here on several occasions about that budget schedule by the ZUCs. And in that part, I have to mention, in this place, that the county from which I come the Koprivnica-Crysing in the distribution of that part of the cake has gone through the worst again. So these are all moments to be pointed out, but of course not to an unfair relationship between rural areas and the difficulties we face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44849	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44850	Thank you very much, colleague Milinkovic. So I think this law is a message to local self-government units if you want to ensure quality transportation you will have to and secure funds. So this is a new burden to local self-government units. But at the same time, at certain times in terms of security, it is not for those who provide the service to be imposed so as to say the lowest minimum for the provision of that service. So this is the age and quality of the bus, and I'm not saying that the distribution of funds towards ZUC is going towards political similarity, not towards real needs, and certainly the construction of roads as well as the construction of railway infrastructure is a prerequisite for traffic safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44851	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44852	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you said it was a short term of concession and you also tied yourself to the student transport and the problems they have, so the students themselves in the transport, i.e. I would say that these are more problems of the transport companies that drive because they are unfortunately unable to comply with the conditions prescribed by law simply for purely economic financial reasons. So, they'd all like to have new buses, and they'd all like to drive our children in an impeccable manner without any risk at all, but unfortunately, we often allow them to do this to them both by legal documents and by implementing certain decisions. Because if they wanted to secure better student transport, then they would have to give the transport contracts to the carriers on longer term so that they could do what you said to buy better quality buses, drive better quality and expensive buses, and thus ensure that transport. So this part of you talking about these concessions in this law is certain that they are too short because they are also too short contracts for student transport. So we should work it out. As for the lines and the cut-off of the lines, I think now that a series of services have been abolished in smaller towns, in smaller areas, detachment of services from people will be increasingly strengthening bus transport. So the citizens will have to travel more, so maybe the bus operators will get stronger, and maybe they'll start working better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44853	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44854	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. As a result, I did say that this law quietly imposes obligations on units of local self-government. Therefore, a 7-year concession does not provide security for the payment of the means of transport. And to get a concession then probably many go with dumping prices. And then what happens to us in life? That the old buses are pushed, that it's the unquality of transportation, and if the mayor or mayor won't react, we have a situation that we unfortunately have in many counties. That is why this law should have simply prejudged it and set it in a different way because many buses from regular lines use it for student transportation. And then it looks what it looks like. I say, it's easy around big cities even though big cities have their own problems with urban transport, but the biggest problem is when both children and people go to work and doctors have to travel 15, 20 km and then practically because of the lack of a line that student bus is used and to go to work and to go to a doctor and to do all the needs they need in the City Administration, etc. Therefore, the concession for units of local self-government and citizens away from the centre certainly means far more than the word concession. To them that concession means life, and if it isn't quality, and if one who gets a concession is unable to provide a quality service then unfortunately that concession doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44855	New replica and respected representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44856	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shuker here I must say that I agree with you that this is a technically good law, that there are details that will need to be dealt with with with with with changes and supplements, and when it comes to child transportation itself, so you were involved and you were part and local authorities know that every year in the fall, somewhere at the end of the 8th month there are child transport tenders, that carriers report in accordance with these tenders. As far as the buses themselves are concerned, everyone, you know, is prescribed all the conditions that buses should meet. However, what happens on the ground, and that depends in the first row on inspectors I think road transport is that those buses that were won in the competition not to end up carrying that transport, come some others. But it's a matter of state institutions, not laws themselves. There's already that in the laws. And I think, first of all, that we should focus on supporting these institutions, namely removing pressure from them individuals who have an interest and letting these people do their job to the end of the day. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44857	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44858	Thank you very much. My colleague Vidovic is pleased with me. In fact, we agreed on the fact that we put this law into real life. Then I simply think there are no MPs in this House who will speak differently. You can't speak against the interests of yourself and the interests of your fellow citizens. Therefore, this is the life problem of Croatia that exists, and this may be why we should have discussed this law in two readings. We knew we had to bring him in. We knew what problems he was dealing with. Because look, it's easy to prescribe by law that the bus has to be like that, but whoever gets your concession you had a case in Slavonia if I'm not mistaken in the fall that two of them got in a fight over this or that, you kids have to take it to school in the morning, you people have to take it to work. Some have to do that or this activity. They won't ask you why you're in conflict over the concession of this or that. So that's what maybe the law was supposed to solve, actually set what to do in these extreme cases? Because I say because of the diversity of Croatia, because this line transport in many areas simply means that it had to be incorporated into this law and that maybe we discussed it in two readings and that all clubs participated in the debate because I say this is a matter of life and I don't think that any of us have any different thoughts here. More or less most of us worked and were the leaders of local self-government units and it would be unfair, human and moral and political to speak in a different way than our citizens think. And they all think alike regardless of the political option.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44859	Thank you very much. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. It is now up to Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister respected Zdenko Antešić, the final word. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44860	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's just a few notes of closure. In order not to remain inexplicable, therefore, in the preparation of this law, of course, I am aware and all my needs are this relatively and absolutely hasty adoption, but in the preparation of this law, here is the ministry which held 10 consultations. So, with chambers, employers' associations, carriers, local self-government representatives and their valuable suggestions are included in the provisions of this law. And regarding Article 54, where the so-called I must say that this solution has avoided one chaos and a riot that has occurred at airports so far where we have had exceptional even very ugly situations where there have been unsatisfactory incidents and in this way it is possible for this area to be regulated in such a way that Shutlle transport can be carried out by those who have an airport contract, and the airport will sign a contract with a carrier that meets the conditions under the public procurement procedure, therefore it cannot, by some decision or by the will of the airport head, sign such contract, but the prescribed procedure must be implemented. Stations can be resolved by this law, however, it is possible to sell tickets on stations that have a contract with the carrier, but it is possible to sell tickets in another way. The question of concessions or the question of licences has been mentioned several times, so the fundamental difference is that concessions are obtained on the basis of the tender or whether the state or regional or local authorities are on the basis of the need to discuss the tender and then award the concession, and the question of concession concessions is dealt with where the traffic is relatively bad or where we have economic interest, and the licence is obtained on the basis of the request. Therefore, the basis for obtaining the authorisation is above all the requirement of the carrier and then, again, on the basis of the existing criteria, the authorisation is granted. Thank you very much and I think that possibly the remarks we have heard are valuable and will be considered and possibly put into some sort of process into some new amendment and addition of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44861	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica of the respected representative Ivan Shuker and the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44862	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy, I think we're gonna make a mess of this. And let us take an example of the Zagreb Airport here it is precisely known that taxi drivers from the Zagreb City taxi service and taxi drivers from the area of Velika Gorica have the right to stand in that position. So no one else can come. And as for this occasional liner transport, you replaced it with Shuttle transport. So you have with transportation from the airport you have a regular bus line which is whether there is a say in Zagreb is one, it is a company from the airport and from Croatia airports in Split is the other. You have a third situation, which is when the agencies bring a charter flight or a certain group of tourists on board, they are waiting for a bus or a means of transport by the agency, so it's about these shuttles or temporary and occasional transports that have been replaced where the airport if it feels the need for it to call a public tender under these conditions, they and those who get that public tender contract and do the job. No one else can enter the area of the airport in particular on that plateau in front of the building, cannot enter if there is no more permission than what I saw on the government's website in the original proposal of this text of the law in Article 54. So he can't come around the airport building at all if he doesn't have that contract. And he could have had a deal with this or that. In this law, however, you are explicitly saying that whoever can only transport can operate that transport that has an airport contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-28-0.u44863	This concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote soon. Final draft road transport law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 426. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 121 votes to pass the P.Z.E. Act. No. 426 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
