ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50972	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a law on construction, a bill that regulates this sensitive, important and important area of construction. Surely no one in our lives has gone through so that at one point, he did not want to build or have problems and faced building problems. In this whole process of law, in the whole process of what we do and how to do, we've gone in a way that we first analyzed what we have in space today, what we have in the process of going through licenses, what these problems are, we've detected problems to know what we're not going to do and we've created the frameworks of what we want with this law. I use in various lectures a very, very good-looking slide that shows that during the time, for a long time in these premises they've been called acts of foundation that can be built, and we're all still talking about building permits. Today, according to the laws that are in force, we have a solution to the conditions of construction which, based on which it can be built, we have confirmation on the main project based on which it can be built, we have a solution on building the basis of the Investment Encouragement Act, we have a building permit and a variety of different beliefs. And when we come to a useful permit, then we have a useful permit, then we have a conviction about the time of construction, then we have a conviction to use it, and then we have a surveillance engineer's report. The supervisory engineer's report at this time is a condition for enrolment and, say, this report may be negative, but it will appear neatly in the garter. And if that were our problem, we would simply solve this problem. We would come before this distinguished House with one amendment to the law and call the right name and last name as we call it in this law. This law knows two acts. One act is a building permit and another act is a valid permit. We, my colleagues, have met with the problem, get a man's solution to the conditions of construction based on it can be built. He comes to the bank for a loan and then the bank brings him back and says, "But you get me a building permit." And then we write about two pages of interpretation that it's a building permit. But if only that were the problem we would, as I have already said, come before this distinguished House, make an amendment to the law in that sense and solve our problems. When we started this whole procedure, when we started doing everything, then we recorded the procedure. And one of our colleagues had that ticket coughed and put it in his office on the wall. And that map is about the size of this door, the cash procedure that it's supposed to be. So, with this we went into the whole process, and we went into the law process, and we came out with this bill, and we concluded that there are two important things that we want to control, and what we want to take care of. The first thing that matters is that everything that happens in space, everything that is built in space, is in accordance with the spatial plan. So, the important thing is that everything that happens is in line with the spatial plan, the spatial plan that we talked about yesterday, the spatial plan that goes through the public debate procedure, the spatial plan that passes the procedure, the decision-making and the voting, whether on the municipal council, the county assembly or this respected House. And the other thing that is important and important, is that we have buildings in the space that are built, buildings that we have in place in terms of our looks and their quality are consistent with all the laws, all the regulations, all the regulations and directives at EU level. In front of the Parliament last year, twice we came with, for the first time, the amendment and addition of the Construction Products Act, and the second time with the whole Construction Products Act. And we have the Construction Products Act which is clearly, unequivocally, very detailedly regulated relationship and regulated what and how can be built and what and how can be used, which materials can be used. And what we've concluded is that the basic problem in the construction process is the process that starts with the construction permit coming out, and ends with the enrollment of the building in the garland procedure, procedure, procedure. And we have sublimed this by this law to clear, unmistakable, absolutely certain steps. First we split the buildings into five groups. Not to introduce a newspaper now, but to follow from these five groups who can issue licences and have to issue licences, and equally which of these groups should satisfy which elements and criteria when it comes to use or use. Equally important and important, in accordance with the EU directives that I have already mentioned, which we have installed in the Construction Products Act, we have divided the basic requirements for construction into two groups. One group is a fundamental security requirement, and the third group is a fundamental requirement and are elaborated on which these are security of which there is no deviation in any case, and which are relevant which are then in a certain part of the derogation. In the construction process we have? The construction process begins with the investor. The construction process not only starts with the investor he and ends with that investor. In this process we have designers, we have performers, we have surveillance engineers and we have audits. Projectors respond that the project was designed in accordance with all specific regulations. An investor supervisor controls that what is being built, builds according to all the rules of the profession, according to the main project. The performer also builds in this process, and the reviewer is once again checking and responding for the most complex and demanding buildings, buildings, procedures in the space with its audits and its expertise. But what does that mean in the permitting process? In the process of obtaining permits, every investor, whether he builds his own garage, his family house, skyscraper or factory, must have a clear hodogram and must be clearly aware of what he should deliver and what he should do along that path. Today we have the simplest solution to the building conditions, these are for houses up to 400 square meters. This solution is now issued on the basis of an idea project, but in order for this man to build a house, a major project should be made. Under this law for such procedures, therefore for these minimum ones one single project needs, it is the main project of reduced volume. Based on it, he'll get permission, but based on it, he'll build. For the most complex procedure, something different was defined, but equally clear and unequivocal. I mentioned ISPU several times yesterday, and I'm probably getting boring already, but I don't think it's ever mentioned too many times. ISPU Information system of spatial editing. With ISPU, it all starts and ends in our process. With ISPU, when I start building or decide to buy land I go to ISPU and see what I can build there and under what conditions. The same way I get information that I have to collect for that particle of mine that I intend to build on. The designer receives all the information which specific conditions, which specific regulations, which the connection conditions should meet in order to build a project for me. At ISPU, I see when someone submitted a request for a building permit. I can see on the ISPU what my hodogram is to issue my building permit, on ISPU I see when I get a building permit, on ISPU I see when the works start. On ISPU, I see when an applicable licence has been issued and on ISPU, what the paper in law is for the first time on official duty, my applicable licence is entered in the cadastre, according to official duty. Go today, see Novi Zagreb, I was part of my working life in Zagreb, so then I like to use the example of Zagreb, New Zagreb has a series of houses with useful permits, not registered. Why? Because we had to go to the cadastre one more time, so we had to go somewhere and collect the papers, so we're not sure which papers to or from. This law has given me a valid permit, so what I get a useful permit for is registered in a catastran under official duty. And the gruntovnica is then the cornerstone of inter-ownership contracts, ownership situations, so each other's stories. So this law has been defined and said there is one permit that is the same for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, no matter how much they spend their resources in the investment. One permit building permit and ultimately one permit is a valid permit. Now, a little bit about that building permit. The building permit is obtained on the basis of the main project. We've been looking at the hodograms. According to current regulations, which are in force according to a hologram that takes 139 days to obtain a building permit. Although the people who defined us in a particular category based on do bussines were placed on 76th and 78th, respectively, and claimed that it was 317 days. According to this law, according to these regulations, according to all the steps to be taken, it is about 30 days, so from the time it starts to collect all the papers that need to be collected in terms of consent to obtaining a building permit that is 30 days. It also ends with a valid permit. Every house will be given a useful permit. There won't be a final report, there won't be any convictions, everything will get a valid permit, and I'll talk about the administrative permit further. The important things that have been defined by these laws, which have not so far been the following, are the possibility that building permits for roh-bau construction, so for roh-bau construction, where we have on the ground floor business premises on the floor of apartments for such a case can be obtained both construction and use permits, and completion according to the main project, is given the possibility of deviation, is given the possibility that according to the legal standard during the construction can be a derogation. The derogation shall not be in respect of the construction direction and shall not be in respect of neighbouring parcels. Deviations can be in depth, height, width up to 3%. At one point we were discussing whether it could be 30cm or 50cm in centimeters, I said 50 on committees because I had this left in my mind, 30cm so I'm using this opportunity to correct the inaccuracies I said on the boards because at one hour we were discussing and at one point it was 50cm in public debate, so I'm here not to mix up so I'm 30cm. There is also one newspaper, a newspaper that reads "the building permit is worth three years". Eight days before the beginning of the work is one important element, eight days before I have to start building I'm reporting the beginning of the work. With that application, I have to deliver that I've regulated everything and that's when I get started on some obligations. What obligations? Obligations are regarding the completion of the façade and the arrangement of the plot. You today, when you're driving with our beautiful family, you really have a chance to see that the houses are moving in, that the houses are 15-ish, 20-year-olds, that they're not finished in terms of their fronts and the environment. On the one hand, it does not show a nice picture of our country, but on the other hand what I would say is a problem, is it a problem for investors to spend a lot more money on energy than is necessary. This law has been defined since the time when someone started the construction within which the facade or the environment should be completed. This deadline ranges between 3 and 10 years depending on which group is which building, best and best example are housing houses, so a family house has been running out of time since it started working for 5 years to complete its facade and arrange the environment, and then inside it can end for as long as it takes. We also have a problem in space that you probably face in your everyday life as MPs with the field, and we are meeting on this side, but this is the problem of people whose state has restored buildings because their war has been damaged or destroyed, a problem where the state has even bought housing houses, a problem building reconstruction and investing in areas of special state care. What problem am I talking about? These people have a solution, we told these citizens that they don't have to and write and say and everything else that they don't have to apply for legalization because their houses are legal, but they have a problem that these houses can't sign up as their property even though they can't really regulate what every one of us wants and they need to regulate and it's to sign up their building in a catastra and then enroll their building in a garnery. We have the provisions of Articles 177 and further through one article of 5, 6 that I do not now say the following about all of our citizens whom we have restored houses that we have built houses that are purchased houses for care which are now located in areas of special state care without any compensation from their side will be issued useful permits. For all these citizens, offices will issue useful permits, come out on the ground, based on solutions they have to measure, define and issue useful permits. For this large layer of citizens who actually visit offices today, come to us, come to some other offices cannot be registered as owners, cannot form their particles on land will be issued useful permits. A useful permit will be the basis for the cadastre, a useful permit will be the basis for the grantovnica and thus we are a large amount of buildings in the space that we have restored we will put into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. So, it all starts with the investor, it all ends with the investor. The investor is the one who starts in this process, the investor is the one who, in this process, ends this process with his useful permission. The start with a building permit ends with a valid permit. In this process is an absolutely clear hodogram, the way and the way in which anything in this process is obtained, supplied and collected. What is important, it is important that at the end of our house butu made in accordance with the document of spatial arrangement, that those in terms of quality and appearance be made in accordance with all regulations and in respect of the legal system be entered and defined and entered in the cadastre and subsequently in the grantovnica. I talked about it a little yesterday, so I'm going to mention it and I'm going to say it today. Responsibility. The great and important thing about these laws is the responsibility of everyone in the process. The responsibility of the designer, the responsibility of the performer, the responsibility of the auditor, the responsibility of all of us who participate and who we issue. The designers still sign and seal projects today, with their signature and seal, they respond that these projects are made in accordance with the law that is in force, in accordance with the spatial plan, in accordance with all specific regulations. But what is happening in the procedure? In the procedure, the following happens, I submit a request to issue a confirmation on the main project, is today a confirmation on the main project, this request is being stopped, it is being completed incompletely or semi-completely. At that time, the reference work in the office shall verify that this is in accordance with the local authorisation issued today, which is a prerequisite for issuing a certificate on the main project and is no longer a prerequisite for issuing a building permit. He's going through my project and then he gives me back the project and says on page 26 he needs to fix it in the third row. Then I fix it and I put it back, then he tells me it's not all signed if I have to, so I fix it, I bring it back. In this system, the responsibility of the conferences in the offices is controlled only by what I have drawn, what I have written, and what I have confirmed in accordance with and in accordance with the document of spatial order. It's in the system of permits, I won't be able to accept the request unless I wait for everything to be waited for. You today when you're going to submit a request for a ID card then there won't even take your request if you don't have everything you need. You today when you are going to submit a request for your confirmation to the main project neatly receive a request written on the paper list, then after 15 days you get a conclusion for the first addition, after 30 days for the second addition. There is no request in this system if, on request, you don't have everything you need, because I've met countless times with those sentences, so I've been waiting for permission for six months. Then I ask her when you turned in, she says, so I turned in six months ago, but I submitted the paperwork ten days ago. But we get those six months into our deadlines. And in perception he really has a man waiting six months. In this system, there is no requirement that all the elements, therefore, of all the elements of the location information, of the project that should be kept. The referent in the procedure controls compliance with the document of spatial arrangement, controls whether it has all the consent if it has evidence that this consent has been handed over and waited for another 15 days to be completed, invites neighbours in the way it is today and beyond can issue a building permit. So, the referents control that what's shown is consistent with spatial plans and they just wait for everything that's been handed over to them to be okay. The result behind the building permit is an usable permit, for the most part the applicable licence will be the supervisory engineer's report because the supervisory engineer should control all processes as well as the entire time. Where there will be where there will be and in certain parts of the procedures there will also be temporary use permits, there will also be testing facilities for such complex procedures to issue a building permit as it should be. There is one moment that yesterday in the debate was equally mentioned, a communal contribution. Today, the law says this. A building permit cannot be issued without a paid municipal contribution but in accordance with a special regulation. The special regulation says local self-government units can give it up in wars, they can give discounts, they can do certain compensations. By this Act we say this, the building permit can be issued but 8 days before the start of the work cannot be done, so 8 days before the start of the work with the application must have proof of regulated municipal and water contribution. Regulated in accordance with a special regulation. So whether it's paying suddenly, whether it's paying with a discount, whether it's paying in wars, whether it's some other compensation, it's the relationship between the investor and the local self-government unit. So, the whole process starts with a building permit, the project documentation is reductions to the minimum possible extent, all additional documentation projects, the idea solutions, the necessary implementing documentation, the needs of possibly more elaborate designation are the relationship between the investor and the projector, all those involved in the process not only by the investor, so the designer and the contractor and the auditor and the reviewer have responsibilities, but for the first time it was introduced for the referents or for our offices that are working, the responsibility that the Ministry can seek a tight procedure for someone who has not issued a building permit, and should have issued it or betrayed it, and he should not have issued it or received a solution from the competent ministry to do so, and he has not done so. The entire system of these three laws is based on several essential elements and essential facts: openness, public availability, transparency, accountability and efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50973	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. Dear Branko Bacic and the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50974	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, I certainly support your wish and intention to shorten the procedure for issuing works for construction and to simplify and reduce the number of names that can be built at all. You said in your introduction that the Ministry had made an analysis to determine that the average number of days needed to issue the permit was 139 days. I would ask you to submit that analysis to me because I don't understand which building the act is issued for 139 days. And you and I both know that to issue a solution to the conditions of building procedures is very simple if the party has met the requirements. You are well aware that the Act on Conduct and Construction Conditions has been adopted to encourage the investment that has been called in Croatia in 45 days and according to that law and the Ministry has been working on an analysis where it has been established that all investors who have properly submitted the documentation by the basis of this law have been issued a building solution within 45 days. Therefore, this required number of days is probably correct for complex buildings, for complex buildings, but for those that are subject to the issue of a solution for building conditions and those buildings and buildings that go according to the Act of Conduct, as we have called it all in 45 days, I think it does not stand, so I would be interested in this analysis because then I would probably be interested in those other objects that will take more days than planned under the law in 45 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50975	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50976	Thank you very much. Indeed, we have an analysis here, an analysis was made in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and there really is this one law that we call the 45-day law. We had to especially bring it in to speed up the procedures they did. I was before this respectable home on two occasions to extend his deadline for the simple reason that we were aware of the problems we have and we installed this law into this law, and this is one of the images we have and we will be very happy to leave to copy and deliver to all MPs because actually the picture is worth sometimes more than a thousand words, so it will be clear what we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50977	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50978	Dear Minister, your speech shows that you are not up to your throat in trouble with building permits, but that you are immersed in all these problems. It's very nice when the minister speaks very competently, explains the problems that the law solves, one law, and when the government speaks matter, when it has an attitude. You spoke specifically, and it rarely happens, and that is what we Parliamentarians need to say loud and clear. Is it possible an impossible mission because what you just told us and what you've been saying for months, when you've been preparing this law, you said a building permit will be obtained in one day when all the papers are collected. You said 317 days, 137 days of preparation. For 30 days, this real, 60 days is the real framework in which a building permit is to be obtained, I think you'll do an extremely big job, a job that wasn't only for big investors, but for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were engaged in some kind of construction. However, you have to watch out for one big obstacle that is not up to you but depends on the whole system, which is, remember that the first First Deputy Prime Minister said at one point when the investments didn't start we lost the battle with red tape. Bureaucracies will do everything to make sure that you fail to do so and to extend it to justify your own sense of why it exists. All these intentions have come very well and I say I am extremely pleased with what I hear and about the rest in the presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50979	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Minister Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50980	Indeed, what you said is true. We can make the law that is best in this world, we can all say that this law is wonderful, wonderful, but if that law is not implemented, then we have done a vain job. To make sure that everything we tell you, as we present, as we present to our citizens, we are in a project called the e-authority. We've been in this project since spring this year, this project is almost over. We're doing an e-authorization test and we'll be working in 10 and 11 months. We'll pick four, five offices to test. But with Zagreb that has the most complex demands, you can agree with it, with the Varazdin which already has it in a certain way we chose cities without wanting to say in any way that it is worse, so the cities that have a slightly different problem we have chosen Petrinja, we have chosen two more cities in which we will educate our referents to do so. In the project d-authorization when we contracted it is an obligation to educate and introduce about our cost, about the cost of the state the entire project and the permit in all our 53 offices. Legalization has not yet been mentioned, but it will certainly be mentioned, so I may be the first to say it. These 820,000 demands would be an impossible mission indeed without a single system. Four people from our ministry are on their way today, and it's going to be in every office for the next two weeks to make an application where they're going to work, that all the offices are doing the same thing. Personally, me and my associates and all the colleagues who do this go around the offices all the time. We're not gonna pass this law, and we're not gonna let it go, so whatever happens. We will follow this law all the time and actively participate where permits are obtained, and these are cities, districts and cities of the type Petrinja which is already mentioned. That's where the licenses are obtained, and that's where we have to be present.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50981	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50982	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister. So anyone who wants to make order, that's commendable. However, when the law is passed, it is still necessary to see the conditions under which this law applies. So in a country that has 320,000 unemployed, in which 400,000 people have salaries, net wages below 3 and a half thousand kuna, which has in rural areas so-called. The traditional construction itself is impossible to meet these conditions that you foresee by this law. The second thing, see how many in the rural part of Croatia you have a house without a front. You don't have to go far. Go here to the Vukovar Mountains, go to Posavina, and you'll see how many houses you have without a facade. And unfortunately, that house for years, it won't have a front for years because these people don't want to make a facade, but they just don't have the money for it. Therefore, these legal provisions should improve some of the things that can be done under these conditions to welcome. But I'm saying, every law never applies in an ideal environment, but is applied in a very stretching environment. And on the other hand, I say you have this traditional way of just building in rural areas that you simply won't be able to overwrite because today people are building up for children, this, what, friends come, help like this, it's not even a fusch, it's just one tradition that's been around us and it's not made up for decades, so we can say for centuries. And that's just something that cuts into this bar with the deadlines that you put on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50983	Replica reply, Honored Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50984	Thank you very much, Your Honor. There really is a deadline, but the deadline refers to a new construction. The deadline does not apply to existing buildings and does not apply to existing houses, it refers to the future. So someone who will go after a new year to get his license then at the time when he starts to build, from that moment he starts to build, the deadline will run. It's not about existing buildings, it's about new buildings. But what you said is a fact. You called it a traditional building. We call it a little bit different, but you can see for yourself that we are in a major state-of-the-art project, and we have the will, the desire, the ways, the tools, and trust and we know how to try to bring this problem to order and not leave the generations behind such a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50985	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want? Yeah. Dear Representative Zdravko Ronko on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50986	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At its 22nd session of October 1st, the Proposal for a Law on Construction, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 12 September, was discussed by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been held by the Committee in accordance with the proposal of the Construction Act as a parent working body, and the discussion on the Committee is united on all three legal texts. So, on the proposal for a law on construction, on spatial planning and the proposal for a law on construction inspection. In the opening presentation of representatives of building and spatial planning ministers, she recalled that the administrative area of construction, together with the area of spatial planning, was governed by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, in which construction is defined as a process of design, construction, use, removal of buildings carried out in accordance with the provisions of law and applicable regulations, and the current law also promotes good design and construction that achieves safe, health and energy properties of buildings, of course through the application of European principles with the security of construction, stability on the surrounding land, animal protection, protection of human health and the environment and nature, and among other cultural and landscape values. Pointing to the proposed solutions to the new legal text, she pointed out that the current Law on Spatial Planning and Construction was prescribed three acts of a different name allowing construction, hence building permit, building permit, construction conditions and confirmation of the main project, which in a large number of cases lacks the need and for most citizens is an unnecessary administrative obstacle and, of course, the cost. A good example, she pointed out, can also serve the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment under which an act which is also an act implementing the spatial plan and the building acts is issued behind the demanding building. The adoption of the proposed law would also establish a hierarchical relationship and link between the central authority of the state responsible for the state in the administrative area of construction and this link with the local and regional self-government which issues building and use permits. This would also eliminate those other shortcomings that plagued this matter and create conditions for ensuring a more efficient, uniform application of the laws and other regulations governing construction. The debate, which followed, praised the ministry's efforts to move the proposed simpler procedure to encourage the investment climate, but it is also expressed here perhaps insufficient attention to the protection of the built space, its control and the quality of architectural production and investor protection. The obligation to arrange a façade within five years for family homes as prescribed by law has been assessed by too short a time limit given the difficult financial situation in which the population is located. It is also considered necessary to prescribe equal legal penalties for the failure to comply with the measures in the completion of the facades both old buildings and new ones provided for in the law where the obligation to complete is proposed through the law. Maybe five, maybe ten years depending on the type of project. It also notes that the proposal that the basis of spatial plans could give rise to authorisations for interventions of national or county importance and noted that the Law on the conduct and conditions of construction for the purpose of encouraging investment also gave so far the possibility of obtaining only one permit to which construction is granted. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote, 6 for, 2 for and 1 abstention to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion: - a proposal for a Construction Act - all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate are addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50987	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Branko Bačić, on behalf of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50988	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In the opening statement of its proposal, it pointed out that the proposed law transposes Directive 2010/31 of the EU on the energy properties of buildings in a way that all issues related to the energy properties of buildings will be governed by one law. It has been pointed out that the adoption of the proposed law will simplify and speed up the issue of construction and use permits and reduce the documentation needed to issue them with an emphasis on the expected positive effects of the application of this law on investments are a more detailed paper of this law compared to the applicable legislation. The presence of the president of the Croatian Chamber of Architects has been troubled by the position of investor protection proposed to obtain special conditions based on the main project. It has been pointed out that the collection of special conditions should be clearly defined in relation to the idea project. The current practice has shown that it is precisely an idea-based project suitable for the collection of specific conditions of public-legislative bodies, which is fully in line with the provisions of the applicable Act on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment. The President of the Committee of Regional Architects of the Croatian Chamber of Architects pointed out that the landscape elaborated by law does not represent the project level but is merely an inventory and analysis. She stressed that the project solution for environmental planning is done through a project of landscape planning or landscape architectural project. The debate also stressed that the implementation project should be defined as mandatory rather than optional. Specific information has been requested from the applicant's representative on the extent to which the average time limits for issuing the necessary permits in relation to the applicable regulation and on the impact of these legal changes on the movement of the costs of obtaining the necessary permits and drawing up the necessary documentation. It has been pointed out that although the urgency of this law is to speed up the procedure for obtaining the necessary permits to build this bill, deadlines for the competent authorities to issue acts after the investor delivers all the necessary documentation. The proposed solution is not supported by which payment of the municipal and water contribution is not a condition for the issue of a building permit but is required by the investor to do so according to the performance of the building permit. It has been warned that this solution significantly endangers the timely preparation and arrangement of construction land, i.e. planning of the arrangements. In connection with the various types of works introduced, such as adaptations, repairs and improvements, as well as a simple reconstruction, it is pointed out that they will also cause different interpretations and possible infringements in application. After the debate was held, the committee voted by a majority, 6 votes in favour and 3 votes against decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: - a proposal for a Construction Act is accepted - all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50989	Thank you, too. The other board presidents? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Zdravko Ronko are at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50990	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As previously pointed out by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which regulates two administrative areas and conducts inspection surveillance is unsettled because of its scope, in some parts unsettled, legally technical and clumsy, there are many changes, it is difficult to baratate and not too safe for investors, and precisely in order to improve transparency and purpose, the division of this matter into three parts, so the Law on Spatial Planning, the Construction Act and the Law on Construction Inspection has joined. This proposal of the Construction Act establishes this hierarchical relationship between the central government authority responsible for the situation in the administrative area of construction and local and regional self-government which issues a building and use licence, thus ensuring and uniform application of laws and regulations. The proposal also stressed the greater responsibility of all participants in the licensing process for both administrative staff and authorised architects and engineers working on project design. Also, for ISPU, the Information System of Space Editing should not be missed to point out that it is of paramount importance because it is the basis for fast, simple, precise information that we will now have on the Internet and there is no need to go around the offices so much, telephone, waste time, nerves, etc. For investors, this means easier and faster licensing, reduction of documentation, reduction of costs and greater legal certainty. We also support the proposal to allow the investor to prepare for construction within three years, as we support the proposal to pay a water and municipal contribution within eight days of the start of the construction application. We also support the proposal to set a deadline for the environment and facades from the beginning of the construction because it is among other things our tradition and should not be distracted from the thought that we had such a thing or that something in these areas existed even during Austria-Hungarian times. It is also a good solution to provide a report to the supervisory engineer for the use of permission that all the projects were made in accordance with. And what's significant is the object is registered under official duty at the garnery. The SDP representative club will support this legislative proposal because it is transparent, simplified in the outset of permits, reduces the documentation for their excerpt, thus reducing the costs themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50991	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to HDZ club and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50992	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Ministers with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. As I commented on behalf of the HDZ Club last night on the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and I will comment on this Construction Act at first in the same way, which is that we support the fundamental motivation with which the creation of these laws was started, and this motivation consisted in the fact that obviously because of the problems in issuing certain building acts, it is necessary to pass a law that will simplify, speed up, reduce administrative barriers and barriers. And clearly, we at the HDZ Club also support this intention, and we support these objectives, and we will support such a legal solution that is on the trail of these objectives and wishes and intentions of the proposings. But now the question arises whether this Law on Construction is in line with these intentions and whether such a law will speed up and simplify the passage of building acts as the Government now claims, and whether the building permit will be easier available to investors and to all clear persons who engage in construction? In our club HDZ will not, and this is the attitude and profession, this is exactly the attitude of architects associated with the Croatian Chamber of Architects on the one hand and the Association of Croatian Architects. Their objections to this bill, therefore, to the Law on Construction of Kudikamo are more severe, and they are more destructive than that of the Law on Spatial Regulation that we discussed last night, and to this extent you colleagues who were on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on the Parent Committee, you know this to the extent that the President of the Architects' Association said that the profession when she saw the final proposal of this Law was terrified. I think it's a difficult formulation. But what was said, in the follow-up to this argument, is that it is terrified that this law did not respect the basic principles of architectural policies that this government has adopted to protect the professional methodology of work and promote the quality and quality of professional action through which it is planned, forms and builds up public space. In fact, this concept of the law skips the initial phase of project development and this is a very important phase of an idea project. In every creative work... and designing there are development stages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first is an idea project, the second is the main project and the third is the implementation project. By this Act, this Bill of Law, the Government, except in the part in which the local authorisation is issued, leaves that first stage, it is an idea project and an optional, i.e. a university-based project that determines the need to design an implementation project. Somewhere in the media, I read a statement from some architects who said that this is the way the concept of law would be set up like that... As if you were going to the tailor, to take, to buy a suit, and not to take measures at first, make a suit for you, and when you come to pick up the suit, you find that your sleeves are too short, that it's tight, that there are no pockets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you're forced to make a new suit clear. For what? Because here with such a proposal of the law, by skipping an idea project and establishing that there is no need to create an idea project, the investor is obliged to move towards the development of the main project, when he makes a major project which is a very complex project, given that there is no need in this same law to create... the project even for complicated buildings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the basis of such a project, only then will the public legal authorities seek special conditions. And if something in this main project is not in line with these special conditions issued by public legal authorities, then the architect or designer, the authorised designer, is now obliged to amend this main project in accordance with the specific conditions issued by public legal authorities. When the basic document on the basis of which special conditions are issued is an idea project then on the one hand the change of the project is more simple at the level of the idea is called an idea project, then the costs are cheaper and everything goes faster together. And that is exactly the model in which an investor seeks special conditions based on an idea project is contained in the current law. And I think it's hard and it's hard by Mrs. Minister, you know it well claims and the profession that it was better and simpler and in that initial part represents a less cost to the investor. Already, the facilities in the Republic of Croatia up to 400 square meters are, as a rule, those buildings built by ordinary citizens in the Republic of Croatia under this current Law on spatial planning and construction are easier and faster and cheaper to come up with a solution on building conditions compared to this solution. That's what the profession says. I couldn't agree more. And then according to the current law, the start of construction meant the implementation of the main project. Here you are now going to the main project with this bill of law. And if this main project is immediately not in line with all the special conditions which will be issued by Croatian roads, forests, conservators etc., etc. If it is not immediately in the beginning and what is especially important is not a complicated building will be almost always then you hereby force the investor to work in a complicated and quite expensive way from the beginning to modify and align with specific conditions issued by public legal authorities. It's the current solution and cheaper I say better and faster. And that click whenever the ministry tried to say it would shorten the procedure because it will now work only one project and it is the main project and skip the idea project it will, in a very, very large number of cases, claim and profession and argue that it is not the process that is common throughout the world that design as a creative work contains an idea, a lifesaving and an idea through the main project and its development through... project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the first, first serious, serious flaw, lack of this law. The second thing is, a large number of builders and architects have been contacted. The establishment of the provision by law that the implementation project is optional for all buildings, including the most complicated ones, and that it becomes a comprehensive document agreed by the investor and contractor in my opinion inappropriate and I believe that Ms. Ministers will agree that for the buildings of the first, second and third groups it is impossible to approach the realization of the project without the implementation project as much as you know very well that numerous dilemmas, doubts, later and disputes and evidence of how much and how it is, construction works are carried out by the basis of the main project itself are not possible and this has been proven in many cases in a number of cases. Therefore, we commend the need for simpler buildings, in particular the fourth and fifth groups as set out in Article 5. It's been established that it should be simplified. But on the one hand, giving up on an idea project and on the other hand giving up on an implementing project makes this bill flawed and that's why I say waist, and you know it well because you heard it, at least I've heard it on both committees and it's quite opposed. As for your statement that this law requires an administrative procedure, that is correct, I agree with that except... it is unarranged except for those objects that are staged or in stages for such buildings where the location, and then the building permit, first appears. The lack of this law before I go back to what I was about to say is that in one and another procedure, so in two administrative procedures, the neighbours of the parties are in the process twice. If, in my opinion and in our opinion, the HDZ Club is a neighbour and all parties to the procedure provided for by this law have acted in the first administrative procedure at the time of the entry into force of the local authorisation, there is no need to reintroduce the same party to the procedure, in the second administrative procedure, as this will significantly hinder the procedure. And when I talk about it, it is unacceptable for us that when an ordinary citizen in the Republic of Croatia approaches the building as an investor, his neighbour is a mainstream party in the process, but when it is done by the state then neighbor to a plot on which the state investor is not a party in the process. They'd say what's allowed by the gods isn't allowed by the ox. I think we have to be credible here to the end. If the mid-term is in the process then independent of the investor he must be party to the procedure, or he will not be anywhere or be everywhere. That's the way it has to be done. I think it is absolutely only acceptable from the constitutional and legal equality of Croatian citizens. Furthermore, the party to the procedure under this bill is no longer a unit of local self-government. Last night, I was saying what the aspect of spatial planning means is the introduction of urban planning by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which brings the government away from the eyes of the local community and the unit of local self-government. If there is a document, an implementing document such as the urban planning of the arrangement brought by the Government without a unit of local self-government for certain projects of economic or public purposes, and in this process of adopting a plan adopted by the local self-government unit yesterday, and now the government, the same unit of local self-government, no longer participates or has no decisive word, and if this law does not participate as a party in the process of issuing a building permit, then it is a respected colleague and fellow absolute marginalisation of cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. It's absolute marginalization. On the one hand, we also take their powers to issue urban planning arrangements, and on the other hand they are no longer parties to the process when a significant building facility is carried out economically or for other purposes in their space. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to look around for a little while, because later on, I'm also likely to be in an individual debate, short and geodetic project. I think it's good that the geodetic project is working and that it's practical, not really, practically an integral part of the idea project when the location permit is issued that it's good that it's a project, that it's a geodetic lab, not a geodetic project, that this geodetic lab is an integral part and a building permit. But since it's a geodetic project, I believe that no one in the ministry knows that because it's not defined, and it's been talking about a geodetic project for a long time, and it hasn't been established by any regulation in the country. It has been established, you ministers know very well, by the current Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. It's a special geodetic background, PGP. And it's already settled, it's already entered the geodetic profession, it's already done, and I think it's a geodetic elaborate that contains topographic depiction and harmonisation of geodetic mapping and catastrian plans at the same time the best geodetic profession can contribute to the process of realising spatial planning and construction, and in terms of issuing building acts. And what's already common, what's already known is who's doing it, who's verifying, in which procedure and what's already accepted, is now changing with this approach, and it doesn't reduce the costs, nor the procedures to the party or the investor. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50993	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50994	Here I am going to conclude, Mr. President, for these principled reasons, by supporting the intensities to reduce, simplify the procedure, the HDZ Club can't support this kind of construction law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50995	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Honorable representative Ante Babic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50996	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, we were tired of listening to your presentation on behalf of the board and the committee of Mr Ronko, where individual board members express their skepticism about this law, and you also spoke about supporting the aim and intention of the promoter and listed the development phases in the construction and idea project, the main project and the implementation project. In particular, as regards the implementation project in Article 73 of the proposal for this law, it is said that the implementation project is being developed in the case where the investor and the designer negotiated the contract for the development of the main project. Therefore, it is not a legally regulated obligation to design an implementing project, which is certainly one of the greatest shortcomings in this law because it cannot and must not be allowed to implement objects without an implementation project. Like how, without an implementation project, the guilt of the performer will be determined. I don't understand it from this law. In particular, this applies to facilities of public and social purposes where the consequences can be inconclusive. We had a case in Split the other day, falling ceilings from a school. If there is no implementation project, I do not know how this could be determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50997	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50998	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, you're right, pal Babic. I also said on behalf of the club that it is unacceptable for the implementation of the project to be determined by this law as an optional part of the design, an optional part rather than a mandatory part. And we're not for that, neither are we personally to have simple buildings, buildings up to 400 square meters, so building 4 groups, buildings maybe 3 groups. But the most demanding, most complex projects, for example, hydro power plants, for example other plants, etc. etc. which require very large development elements in the project do not need to determine the implementation project. This is unacceptable and it is legal to find that this depends on the agreement of investors and performers. In my view, this law should have laid down exactly the projects for which this is an obligation, for which it is necessary, especially from this aspect of which you spoke of Mr Babić, which is that in the case of a dispute, in the case of opening a judicial procedure, how and how such complex structures can be established in such a complex project if the achievement of the works necessary for the realisation and construction of a more complex building is not done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u50999	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51000	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague Bacic. I listened very carefully to your debate because I appreciate your expertise in this domain. But I think you took one bad example of an architect's statement about tailors and suits. I think it's wrong until the end and it's wrong, because the investor knows exactly what he wants to do and he comes with his idea, comes to an architect who's authorized and an architect using spatial plans, spatial planning arrangements and detailed planning arrangements, and he knows exactly what location to do. So you know exactly what can be done and therefore you can't say that the suit is short or large. What is inconclusive from the proposal of this law is that this law makes it certainly cheaper, certainly faster solutions and that investors will be much more satisfied with such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51001	Thank you, too. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51002	Thank you, Mr. President, colleague Mandic. There's no problem in the investor, that's what this is about, it's not about the investor. Here's the problem with the law. If the promoter thinks that the main project is enough in itself and that the investor as you speak and the architect, i.e. the designer, will know immediately at the beginning what the building should look like, then let's cancel the special conditions. Which is why such a project that is very, I'm telling you, the main project is a very high phase of project development. Then why send this project to public-law authorities in Croatia to verify it and issue... What if it's that simple, if architects and investors know everything then let's not send it to public-law bodies but let's immediately issue a building permit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that is not the case, but you will be sure that the more complex the building will become, the more the main project will be, and the more and more expensive it will be to get out of the building permit and make the main project, because it will be said, so when the suit is over, when you've come to pay for it, you've found that there are no pockets and you'll have to do the suit again. That's how you're gonna do it here. You've done the main project. Now that you find that the public-law body has told you that you've done something wrong, then you're going to have to change that main project like that tailor who has to change the beginning of his suit that he made and that he's charged, and what the party is going to cost it twice, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51003	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51004	Dear counterpart Bačić, I have listened carefully to your presentation on behalf of the club, but probably because of the weather options you did not mention those problems that could arise under this law during construction procedures on cultural goods. In fact, in Article 16 of this Law, I will look at it specifically in this replica, it is said that it can be deducted from the requirements laid down by this law if the essential and fundamental monumental properties are at stake. I think a colleague should say that it is very difficult to define the essential monumental properties, that they can be very diverse. I can give you dozens of examples. The other thing I didn't find in the law, maybe you colleagues or someone else will fix me if I'm wrong, no mention of potential cultural goods anywhere. So it can happen that in the construction process, for example, it comes to an archaeological site that is not listed in any register, and there are such cases have been in practice. And I have not also noticed in the articles of the law that this law is nevertheless called for by the authority of another ministry which is in charge of the protection of cultural goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51005	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Mesic, that's exactly what I was saying, because in this process of coming up with special conditions, there will certainly be conservators like this public-law body who cares about protecting cultural monuments that they will have something to say. So just at the reconstruction, the restoration of such significant cultural objects in the Republic of Croatia should have this one feeling that by shortening the procedure, it is exactly what you said to the monuments of culture and in the Republic of Croatia. And therefore, for such monuments, I certainly agree with you, you should take very good care of it through confirming the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51006	New replica and respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51007	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Bačić, my replica, goes in this direction towards the relationship between the implementation project, the main project and the special conditions. I may agree in this section when you comment that the solution so far has been simpler in practice, however, when we talk about legal responsibility it was not any simpler, because in my opinion, it certainly is a good solution in which all the specific conditions are defined in the main project, because later on, if the difficulties you are talking about, the designer takes into account all the difficulties that can arise when the project itself is implemented and if significant deviations occur from the specific conditions later, it is not really clear who is responsible anymore. I myself have witnessed litigation of which more participants in the construction were not clear to them whether the designer was responsible, was the performer responsible, was the investor responsible, and who in the end was the supervisory officer? Who's responsible? So often these litigation disputes ended with their simple arrangement let's all take part of the blame. So to conclude, I think this is a solution in which the main project must meet the specific conditions, and the investor and the designer are then under this legislative solution agreeing on whether to install an implementing project and they take responsibility for any change that will be later on in the field in terms of specific building conditions. There you go. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51008	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51009	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Žagar, the main project as a basis for construction and under the current law was also a necessary prerequisite for construction. Only the main project was carried out after the relevant administrative body issued a decision on the conditions of construction. And it can't be an idea project that doesn't represent an investor compared to a major project that is more important because the fact that it won't be made right away is more expensive than the fact that it wasn't obliged to make it under this law. That's what this is about. That the idea project was to get a building permit, and then make a major project before the construction began. Because the investor has to make it anyway. Therefore, it is a solution that is faster and simpler, less costing, less costing changes in the process of obtaining a building permit. And that's the current solution, the current law solved it. This law in existence, I agree with Madam Minister, requires changes, accelerations, but unfortunately we are witnessing that in the basic part of this law, which includes the largest number of buildings in Croatia, there will be few hydropower plants, few other buildings, and many more private, small housing facilities up to 400 square meters, the situation will be complicated. And that's less what I'm talking about, but the architectural profession wrote about it and made it clear. And I agree with that that every job has a phase of how it ends. And why is the ministry skipping here? You can even read that in the ministry's answer to the questions that have come
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51010	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51011	I'll finish now, Mr. President. The public hearing is not responsible. Look, it's not answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51012	Thank you very much. In the construction process there are eight subjects involved I studied it, everyone has different interests. All 8 have different interests. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the SDSS club and the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51013	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the Minister of Construction and her associates. The subjective assessment, therefore, is to be commended, is a rare opportunity for the minister to come with, or the minister to come with, his complete team, or the most responsible people in his ministry. What I'd like to say in the introduction for us is at the SDSS Club this very important law. We waited for it to be brought, to be on the table for discussion because through these legal solutions that are now being offered to us in these 170 articles are therefore the assumption that certain anomalies, certain legal vacuums and certain difficult life situations in which a certain category was present and I'm talking about people who were in the category of returnees, who were in the status of people whose house needs to be restored, who were in residential care. They had a problem solving their status. By resolving the status of your property in other words. So I thank the minister for giving us the opportunity to say these problems to her a while ago, to bring them to this institution and to see that there is a lot of it in a very good way, for us acceptable way in this legal text and accepted, formed through norms, and we think that this is one good basis for these problems that I am going to go through, which are definitely still happening on the ground, to solve. So this law creates a good legal basis for us to do a job that is very interesting for people, which is the legalization of our property. That's a good point. I will pass through this law only through a few partnerships old and new solutions offered by this law for the simple reason that many people will not have the opportunity or will not be willing to read legal solutions but hopefully through the monitoring of this debate there will be some new knowledge in which way easier to solve these problems with the legalisation of property. So the previous law when it came to legalising family homes, we had a situation that users of the housing restoration programme who were primarily returnees to the area of special state care had major problems in legalising family homes. Although their houses were from the restoration of their homes, however, they were considered in principle legally built to prove the legality or legalization of these houses to be unclear, complicated, demanding, and often very expensive for them. It was necessary to obtain and implement this legalisation process a series of documents that took time and money, etc., and I have a basic fact the house was destroyed, the state was renewed, the state was subject to renewal and the thing had to be done and such an object must be legalized. So it wasn't a pretty logical thing to be. Especially when we spoke with the minister pointed out the problem that is happening in some areas, I specifically talked about the area of Baranja, the legalization of objects or houses that were built before '68 in a technical sense, it appeared to us as a problem because it was necessary to prove the time of construction of these objects before a certain date in '68. There was no way to do that because there was no such thing as that famous video, the plane that was being operated by the JNA Army at the time and located somewhere in the archives in Belgrade. One banal thing, but it was a burden on people. We see now that Article 175 of the law of the Ministry has tried to solve this matter. I think it's a good solution to find out that all the buildings were built before '68 and the Priors were legal but the time to determine the construction must be proven with several documents, including this aircraft. So that's a good solution, and I'm asking a practical question here, so people know if this critical mass of footage has really been provided now, if it's de facto that it came to us in the Republic, is it distributed by the competent offices so that people can call on these documents tomorrow so they can legalize their private houses that live in 50 and over years. If it is, then it's a good thing that here you should say a little bit more clearly which are the other relevant documents that are replacement documents for these cards. We also talked about article 177. I think that we have 181. We talk about situations where the legality of the building needs to be proved, and the documents for this are destroyed or gone. Of course, I'm talking about war situations when in the midst of war horrors many have lost their basic documents, and even some of the offices that are officially dealing with it, which should lead to the loss of those documents. We see that this Article 181 is well solved where it is simplified or said in which way the building permit can be obtained new if it is destroyed with very small with the minimum documents of cadastrian copies from a cadastrian operator and proof that the building permit is destroyed or not available, thus obtaining a replacement document which can legalise that facility. It's a big thing for people who are still in areas of special state concern where there's practically no catastrian operative yet formed and definitely people lost all their documents. We talked about housing in Article 177th about several major problems, so in particular, the returnees were beneficiaries of housing which were assigned building material to rebuild the house under the PPDS Act and were asked to submit a request for legalisation of all documents required for large costs. So they got construction material from the state, rebuilding houses in the PPDS and having an illegal facility that they have to legalize. That was here until today's situation is like that. As long as you have another situation, the users of housing who, according to the model from the renovation program, got it from home they didn't have to do it because these facilities were considered legal. Logics said things that all those buildings built by the state as one of the subjects should be considered legal. I guess the state isn't investing in illegal facilities. Therefore, this Article 177th question is settled, and the two categories of construction are even. Therefore, the assumption is that those who have received housing according to the PPDS model and those according to the reconstruction model now have legal facilities. Here, of course, evidence needs to be collected here that they were in the rebuilding program by the state and that they are passing out a useful permit, so to enter into one procedure because the outcome of the permit assumes a series of actions that these people have to do. And that's what it is now, that's what's asked the question. We created this bill of conjecture, a formal legal assumption that these objects are legalized but we still left people on the ground to face the cost of leaving once and twice in the cadastre, in the garter, and then the commission exit, so the record, so determining the actual state will take a long time so I'm only here cautiously. I'd like to be denied by life situations but in any case they're people who are old, who are weakly mobile, who don't have the money for all these things. We did create these assumptions but we left one, one administrative indetermination and space that administration then this whole thing leads in another direction. It's kind of our principle not to comment but one warning about what might happen here. And today, about that, we have the next situation on the ground. Therefore, requirements for the legalisation of houses under the PPDS Law of the housing care programme continue to be resolved to this day under the applicable law and on the burden of these people that I was now talking about, therefore, on the burden of returnees who are already living on the edge of social existence. We point out the latest example from the municipality of Plaški, where compensation for the illegally built building is determined, I am talking about a PPDS amounting to 4 thousand 918 kuna on the burden of home care users to which it was assigned, and it has been awarded construction material for rebuilding and rehabilitating the house, according to the PPDS Law. The state restores his house with its material, treats it today as an illegal facility and it receives a fine of 5,000 kuna for an illegally built facility. It's something we want to point out that is beyond these legal norms. So, you did create a certain formal legal assumption that this thing is being arranged, I'm talking about the administration's actions in these concrete things. We could also ask me why these cases and legalisation procedures and it was known that this new legal solution would not stop and why this better solution did not wait. The question in this Interregnum can also be asked between the adoption of an old law and a new law, and what about those who, according to old regulations, have legalized themselves and exposed themselves to one of the great costs. So it may be unrealistic to expect, but we suggest that the ministry find a model to make it easier for people who have legalized in Interregnum and who have had certain monetary expenditures in some way to make it easier for them to compensate. And a few more things, a few thoughts about this new one, which is proposed in the law, is probably the need to agree with the European Union's gains in Article 21 of the energy quality of the building, quite clearly that this will be a new thing for us, that it will be a new financial burden for both individuals and local self-government. Because if it is an obligation for all public purpose facilities to have energy certificates, kindergartens, schools, health homes, etc., the question is how much this will affect the budget, the extraordinary costs or expenditure of the budget of local self-government, as it is all related to a certain deadline. So these buildings don't have the obligation to deliver an energy certificate immediately, or to make it, but in any case until then, they don't have the ability to put that property into legal traffic, which is also one thing to think about, in fact, whether you might even refer to it in one particular debate of the constitutional category as far as we can limit the traffic of private property by conditioning that this facility has or does not have an energy certificate that I am above all saying a new thing in our practice to which it will take a long time to adapt. The deadlines for editing the facades of Article 115 are very interesting, therefore, in any case for the facilities that are in the area of the business of housing should be supported in any case that these facilities must finally be completed, we are a little skeptical when it comes to the obligation that within three years private houses have to edit the facade, we know in what state of the economy a part of the population is located, especially the special state care of the PPDS. We don't expect people who live in Lica who don't have a job to do to end up getting a house rebuilding, we don't expect to punish them now if in three years they don't finish that outer facade and they haven't existentially arranged their lives inside that house. So, in that category, it might have to be a little more flexible, so that's the fifth category if I got the building right, maybe I'm wrong, I don't know, correct me. And finally about this, one question we had was the legalisation experience when certain private bureaus experienced it as a particular monopoly position, it was a rental job, even the state couldn't even affect the amount of funds, the legalisation tariff whether this would be some kind of monopoly job, certification, and one question is also whether the state would be able to control the price of these jobs if there was now Chamber policy, and so on and so forth and all together, it creates a relationship where these people who deal with such a business will determine it on their own on the burden of the user. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. In any case, we support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51014	You, too. Thank you very much. Club of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51015	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates. First of all, it's good to see you this much. I think yesterday you were even more complete, one part of the team is missing but it is certainly commendable because it is also an example of how to treat the Croatian Parliament. I am sorry that the debate is not united and I think it is the minister and that those who have suggested that the debate be united that they were right, however, which is there. For by any law of these three laws you speak ye cover both the first and the second and the third, they are intertwined. After all, we had one instead of three laws, so it's a shame that it wasn't a united debate and it didn't all start not yesterday afternoon but this morning in a united debate, but it was sometimes the intrepid opposition that didn't need. It's commendable that this is the first reading, you know that we rarely meet here with two readings, so we say, let's take a breath, if there are some mistakes and if there's some illogicalness, if there's something that's inconclusive, it can be corrected until the second reading if there's good will. But what we heard was encouraging from the presentation of Minister Mrak Taritash, that there was nothing against smart proposals, especially those experts. I'll immediately relate to the debates that we've heard before by comparison. Imagine what the public notebooks would say if the government had made a decision that some of the services that had been used so far had to be abolished. They'd raise the castle to the sky. And you know that, I don't know, we'll probably, uh, we'll probably need a little more confirmation at the public notebook that we're allowed to go home. So here and here. Before Mr. Bacic said that the profession, architects are asking for the return of what was in the previous law, an idea project. I'm very pleased he's not here, especially he's not here, and we know why he's not here for small objects, and it's one of the great newspapers in this law. The laws need, and that is why we are here, to make it easier for citizens to come to their rights and to live as easily as possible. This is one small thing, one small thing, and I've read what architects are, all their remarks, they've written amendments to the law, and I don't agree with them. I'm no expert, but I see, I don't know why... a 100-square house, 100m2 or 50m2 needed an idea project. I agree entirely with the supervision of the construction, however, one to start with illogicalness, in perhaps me as a layman seems illogical, and that is the situation that if you are authorized, if you have a company you cannot control your facility, you cannot build a project but you should ask for another authorised service. It's like a carpenter can't make himself shoes to walk the street. And what happens then, I'll do my fellow project, he'll make me, and as we do, we'll do everything, we'll just sign each other. If we said we shouldn't check the project anymore, that the referents won't check, that every project designer is responsible for the project, and the ministry is going to do the controls, then we have to trust so much because we know how the services are done to you, you do to me. So a set of construction laws, one discussed yesterday, the one about spatial planning, will allow for the end of the agony of those who want to build. And immediately to connect to one comparison or saying, I'm not rich enough to buy cheap. What is being insisted on making a facade on houses within five years is exactly, not inappropriate, but an appropriate remark that I just said or compared. For what? Because building a facade on your own house will make keeping the house much cheaper. And I wouldn't agree that those who go to build a house are the only ones who miss the facade. When you go to build a house then if the facade is planned then the cost of the facade counts. Well, I don't think you should buy a super modern kitchen, but make a facade. Therefore, with the vast majority of the provisions in the law, I fully agree and I think you're ministers with your team on the right track. It's hard to believe, everything the minister said in this campaign and everything that will be said here today, when compared to the practice of the past, the intentions are fantastic, excellent, we waited and what I think Mladen Delic would say to my people is possible. The Minister says it's possible. It encourages her sentence that she will not fit in this law, so the laws, we often bring together good laws, but after that they become a dead letter on paper because they are not controlled by their implementation, and that is exactly how the law will be implemented and how they will be brought to life and how they will affect everyday citizens. So if you come to the counter with complete papers that can be collected in a month you can get a building permit for simple projects in one day. And here are your permits, there are your seals, your seals, your flies, whatever you want, and that's what you don't believe. What I was saying about the project, the surveillance, it's the same energy certificate. In law, it is normal that the law does not need to write it, but the minister did not explain it and it is not in the preamble of the law that explains how many of these people are in Croatia who are authorized to issue certificates, how many we have trained because they are there, are very strict conditions who can do it. Do we even have those people who can do that? And the other thing is I'm asking as a man who lives in a 90-year-old building in Zagreb where big procedures are needed, we're co-owners of a building, the building hasn't been established even though it had to be staged long ago, so the extended deadline seems to me by the end of 2016 or the 17th year. Many co-owners of this building have no money, we cannot borrow and cannot, as Minister Linic says, sell, sell his apartment because he is worthless, because you have 15000 apartments in Zagreb and no one has any money, especially not to buy in an old building that is expensive for maintenance. And now that I want to, if I want to sell that apartment, I can't sell it because there's no building certificate energy. This is one big problem that you will encounter in the city of Zagreb, especially in all major cities and smaller cities that will especially have people having problems living in such buildings. You have to offer us a solution. What if I want to sell an apartment in a building that's not on the record, which doesn't have an energy certificate. What do you do? Wait when? 20 years, 30 years. That's what we lay down, and those regulations, they're inconclusive. There's no solution here. I hope the Minister will explain. With the deadline for obtaining a building permit, which is for our opportunities for a small revolution, one of the most significant newspapers is the non-conditional building permit by paying for municipal and water contribution. And it's the same to say hello. Under the proposal for a law on the construction of an investor, all obligations to the state must be met no later than 8 days before the start of construction. Yes, revolutionaryly for us today is here in these Croatian spaces is the electronic unification of all the spatial plans the minister spoke of yesterday, and the records of the requested and obtained building permits. Information on the database will be an extraordinary tool for both inspectors and citizens whose right it is to know. It's getting into another law that we've already discussed. To be informed about spatial plans, building plans, new buildings are the right of every citizen, and there we have experienced a revolutionary shift. And now at the very end, and hopefully I'll still have opportunities in replicas to ask or explain some things. Which is a real threat to the implementation of this law. Just what we were just before, the sooner I said what the minister said, the red tape again, the bureaucratic slowness again, because the minister doesn't think 24 hours a day about how she's going to suppress the intentions of red tape, and bureaucracy is thinking 24 hours a day about how it's going to be purpose for itself and how it's going to complicate what needs to be simple. There is always this one but, although guaranteed by law, the procedures for obtaining a building permit should be done very quickly not only by education, but also by those penalties that are provided here, if the referents do not do their job well and if in that chain all those in charge of doing their job quickly and well do their job. And one of the important questions is that I work in the field, and these are building inspectors who will get help from communal directors. We heard from the minister that these utility directors who have 700 and something has a hairdresser, there are also waiters who probably couldn't get a job in their profession, so they were forced to look for another job. But here you can see that we as a community, as a state of volunteer that we receive professional jobs or what should be a profession we receive people who do not have qualifications. Now the minister says we're going to need quite certain for the communal directors to receive new people. What's going to happen to these people? Whether these people will qualify, whether some courses will be published, whether they will get cancellations, how they will be taken care of because there is still no solution for these people to be sent to the street. It is very important that these people really have the power to close the site on the same day, to issue a solution to the collapse within 8 days and then after the crash solution is issued to bring it down on the ninth day. If we don't do it, illegal construction will continue to flourish. This is gonna be a dead letter on paper, nothing's gonna happen. And when are we gonna see that? We'll see about that the day the law comes into force and the first building to be shut down that way. And it shall be brought down according to those statutes which are in this law. Here, so much to start with.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51016	Thank you, too. We have replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51017	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, with a large part of your presentation, would agree and support what you said. However, in the part where you express your disagreement with the position of architects, I disagree. In fact, what I have already said several times is not cost more than cost. This will be shown in practice when implementing this law. There's a proverb that says that what smart knows at the start of a fool knows in the end. Let's all be smart so that all we need to know at first determine at the beginning, and let's not live in error, in the illusion that we've come to an end, that we've solved the costs, and then we'll figure out now you have to get back to the beginning, and you'll pay a lot more than you'd pay to immediately do an idea project. Such a delusion except for the idea project is also a communal contribution. We may, by skipping, or by adopting, by determining the obligation to pay for a municipal project after the construction permit has been issued, create an illusion that we have issued faster, and even the investor, I think, in relation to the situation so far, has gone much cheaper. But he won't be able to start building immediately after the execution of the building permit while he pays. Only in cities and municipalities of this law will we complicate the situation so that they can make their basic incomes that we don't even know it. It's the same comparison, let's just say we're going to go quickly, it'll come cheaper, we'll give you a license quickly, but then we'll only have to give us permission to see that we now have to get back to the beginning as we're going to see that we should pay a communal contribution before we start building. It's about the same level.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51018	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51019	Dear colleague Bačić, we agree that we disagree in that section. You said we'd complicate the construction process. I don't see what we're going to complicate. I think, as one same comparison, we've complicated, let's say, a referendum by collecting 700 thousand signatures, and after that, we're giving the Constitutional Court a question as to whether it's constitutional. And then the Constitutional Court finds that it's not constitutional and 700 thousand signatures, I think it makes sense. I'm no expert in this area. I here, like most colleagues, send political messages. This message today is that this is acceptable for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the municipal fee needs to be paid, the municipal contribution should be paid. But what were we yelling at the administration, what were we yelling at, why were we unhappy with the laws? Because it's been said building permit should wait a year, it's been waiting months. Now everything will be done to get the building permit issued as soon as possible. And now we're unhappy because we say smart knows at first what a fool will find out in the end. That's not true. This, the idea project was purely formality. Have you ever built a house, have you built something where you needed some paper to take right away and say it's pointless that I'll throw it away, that's what I paid for. This was just, ask please, we'll come to a settlement where 100 houses were built and ask people who built houses that were their idea projects. Copy-paste was that. They were just holding it together, only someone was taking the money. And now that you're taking money from someone's pocket, normally the architects aren't happy. I think we should protect the citizens, not the individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51020	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51021	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a truly respected colleague I agree entirely with your debate. First of all, with the emphasis that what the minister said was that this law must first of all define openness, transparency and accountability. And especially that it must protect above all our citizens that within this part they must realize their ability to build. Not only that, but we need to fight hard for both investment and investors. And that's where you mentioned the three costs you're looking forward to. This is primarily the energy cost of certification, the cost of making facades and communal contributions. I'd just say that in that part of it, this law takes care of that. And you asked for certification. It ultimately costs about 1000 kuna for the apartment, 5 to 10 thousand kuna for the building depending on the size and essentially worth 10 years. There are a lot of high-quality certificates that can do it right now. About the cost of the facade, too, as a certification, this is essentially also a positive EU flow. We still have to do it, not only because at this point in time, we also have this energy efficiency, environmental protection, and finally after that facade when it's done, it's both less cost and maintenance. I would like to highlight something in particular, which is that all the certified and facade funds from the EU Fund, i.e. funds from the resolution ministry and agencies, can be obtained. They need to be used, and that is the help that can be said to be an important cost reduction. On the other hand, around the municipal contribution, the communal contribution is the unit of local self-government. And if the mayors and commissioners want to help their citizens investors, then they'll put the payment of the municipal contribution to the wars. And if they don't, they're going to have to pay it all at once, but they're going to have to pay for such an act of resolution or war, or it's a one-time condition that you can go towards a building permit later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51022	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51023	Here's what we finally agreed on. You said the certificates will, there are qualified I trust you. I don't know, that's why I asked the minister how many there are. I'll repeat the question, how will the certificates issue me a certificate if I want to sell the apartment? You said there was a way to rebuild buildings not only by means of construction. Try to get those funds. Secondly, you need 30 depending on the degree of protection of the building from the position of the building in the city of Zagreb you need to invest your funds, so the co-owners of the building should invest their funds. I think it was the ratio of the building where I live 30 mi 70% of the city of Zagreb, I don't know about, it was a long time ago when we asked. 30% for the restoration of a building in the Vatican, the Zagrebers know what the Vatican is. In the Vatican, there's hundreds of thousands of you in which to blink everything on the tenants might turn out to be a few thousand, it's an impossible mission. And on the other hand, says Mr. Linic, I'll do it again, so sell if you can't live. So who? I can't sell because I don't have a certificate. One closed circle. You have to offer a solution for that. So you don't have any money, what's it gonna be? Kidnapped apartments, kicked the tenants out? I mean, you can't keep a condition where there's no solution. What I'm telling you right now has no solution. The second one wasn't staged. And if the building were to be staged then parts of the building could be sold together. I mean, there are a lot of problems that are insecure at this point, so I hope to get an answer from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51024	We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is next to the HNS club and the respected representative Petar Baranovic, the first part and second respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51025	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Ministers with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Right away, the HNS club will support this law for the reasons that we have supported and we will also support the law that was under discussion last night, although it is equally and perhaps even more attractive and important. We will support it because this law goes into a few basic objectives, it is one thing to make this process more transparent, the other to make it cheaper and faster, more enforceable and third, to clearly define powers but also responsibilities that have not been clearly defined so far, and the responsibilities of individual participants in the overall planning and construction process have not, of course, been spoken. Some of the newspapers that this law adopts are, for example, the application of information that allows citizens to control the overall process of their subject through computers and Internet access, to get the necessary information, no longer need to get in the car and go from office to office, to lose hours, to lose working days, to keep things far more accessible, much simpler, and thus much cheaper. The acceleration of the process of building eliminations on individual cases and local permits of course makes us absolutely logical to conclude that the construction of citizens or investors is one and the other are de facto and de jure investors and citizens of entrepreneurs the whole thing makes it cheaper. We've been picked up at the HNS Club for something better and more practical classifying objects or categorizing objects. So far, the approach to categorization of objects is based mainly on the difference in the number of squares, and it has not been referred to in the different uses of objects, so we have come to a paradoxical situation, let's say that the lower category has an object which, given its purpose, should have much more complex conditions and be more categorized than the usual warehouse just because it has less squares than that warehouse. Also, what I welcome in this law is a clear division of powers and responsibilities. This law provides for the responsibility of a designer for a dedicated project. The dedicated project, with its seal and signature, guarantees the regularity of the project, and the revision no longer needs to be, nor is it obliged to go into the details of the projector's work, which, of course, indicates that the whole process is speeding up and that one audit can process a much larger number of items and not create those supplies that are in certain cases, for example, I will list the city of Sibenik when we came to office, we were welcomed by 2,600 transferred objects that were not solved because of course the process of solving a single case lasted much more than logically and which is meaningful. There were speeches and comments on whether to prescribe the making of facades and complete completion of the facility before obtaining the necessary permits. Of course, new facilities should prescribe such a practice with the practice we have had so far should be stopped not only for aesthetic reasons that are not irrelevant, especially in tourist regions and then you pass along the road and your tourists are driving and watching series of houses which from the terrace are still what we Dalmatins say to the Tondini or concrete iron and will be born small so another floor will rise. We have to put an end to that. We are part of Western civilizations, and certain even aesthetic criteria must be incorporated into the legal regulations of ladies and gentlemen. But what's much more important, and that's, say, building a facade that's not just an aesthetic detail, but it's a detail that goes in the direction of the building's completion, lower cost of exploiting buildings, or lower costs and heating, which goes towards building an object in which no small funds are being invested, and makes it more permanent. Let's go from profiling ourselves to a nation of responsible people who start and end up. Any unfinished work in any context cannot be acceptable if we want to raise the criteria in this society. There were speeches about the collection of the municipal contribution, whether before the construction permit or after the construction permit. This collection of the municipal contribution would also be given a lot to say about the responsibility when certain decisions were taken on the municipal contribution to local self-government units and against the funding needed in local self-government units. ... In the context of the legalisation of objects, local elections have been acting populistly, and decisions have been made to reduce the municipal contribution to 20, 30, 40 kuna, only we have not yet paid those who have played the law to legalise their facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, when we made such decisions that we made people who were building objects by law, we paid communal contributions actually to the status of fools. That we made fun of them. Therefore, communal contributions would lead to a very serious debate in this House and on how and how to deal in the future and from the position of the leaders of the units of local self-government. However, this law stipulates that a municipal contribution must be paid no later than 8 days before construction works begin. Therefore, whoever started the construction permit, who prepares the project, who goes into construction, will pay. It is important to pay and it is even more important that the person who prescribes the height of the municipal contribution is responsible for his citizens and not just for his ambition to be re-elected. Because it will be very interesting to monitor the realisation of income on the income items of the local self-government units concerning municipal contributions, now that they are in place and unblessing decisions on the outreach of the municipal contribution in order to meet those who have not paid most of the municipal contributions because they ignored the system because they knew that they could pass more cheaply. For the end. The architects' association has a very clear motive. A very clear motive to rebel because this law brings down their incomes, and this Law introduces a much stricter line of responsibility and conditions in their business than they have so far. Architects are people, of course, like everyone else, some do their job highly professionally, some don't do it professionally. And those who don't do it professionally must be in a system in which they will carry on their unprofessionality the consequences. I leave the rest of the debate to my colleague Ivica Mandic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51026	Madam Vice-President, the Honorable Minister with his associates, I would say, in the follow-up to this debate, that this Law is on the trail of editing and state of affairs in the construction sector. What is most important is that, in the process of arrangement of the ministry and headed by the minister, there are complex problems that begin with legalisation because the previous governments and previous ministries have been trying to amend the Law on Legalisation of Legally Built Objects on five occasions to improve the process, speed up, unfortunately, it did not occur. With the arrival of the minister and the team, we have come to submit 820 thousand requests for legalisation of space in the Republic of Croatia. Here I list the steps that are necessary in cleaning up the space. Under number 2 after this information on the number of legalization facilities, the ministry has made an inventory of the situation in space. After the situation in the space, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction shall work on the information system of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. These are all steps that are important in the effectiveness and functionality of this Law and the application of this Law and then the enforcement of the Law in reality. After... comes the turn of a state-run space management strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all documents brought by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, a relevant legislative body tasked with regulating the state in which we live. After that comes the e-authority where we will take this process of acceleration, publishing and building permits almost to a minimum. And what's most important in all of this is what I've listed in these steps so far is that the public is spotlessly informed, that the public is also about this Law that is before us, these three laws, that over 10 round tables with interested public interest, with interested units of local self-government and with interested persons who run the business of organising and editing this space. And what is most important, informative and that is available on the website of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning throughout the course of this monitoring. We think that's a good thing. This is all I mentioned in these steps, they bring the following: simplicity in the process, faster, cheaper and responsibility. Here about these three first ones I wouldn't talk too much, but I would certainly say that this law introduces responsibility, I would say with three challengers, responsibility from the designer, responsibility from the referent who gives consent, responsibility for the inspection. If we want to have a system that is effective, which is responsible, then we need to connect these three responsibilities and that everyone is responsible for what he's done. So far, it has been the case that the only responsibility was given to a state or unit of local self-government. All the others in the process, and here we said that there are eight who charge for part of their services, were not responsible, nor were the designer nor this, even though the one... who gave consent, in the end no one was responsible. Here you know exactly who is responsible, so in the design of the main project, an authorised architect is responsible to act under certain rules of spatial order, detailed arrangement, and he is obliged to make and answer for such a project. The referent confirms other conditions but he's responsible because he gave it. Therefore, if we consistently implement this law, it will work. I believe in the high-ranking tasks of the ministry headed by the minister that they will be able to fully control and keep this system under control, that it is in function and protection of space and protection of construction and other things. Here when we talk about the framework of these laws, these three laws will then say that they are based primarily on the old Law on Construction and Spatial Planning, then the Law on Construction Products, which are ultimately in line with the European Union directives and I think we will certainly have a lot of things to do to fully respect the recommendations of the European Union and the Law on Architecture and Engineering. I think it's the laws that give up the details of how we should act. What I would say with all this speed of procedure, is that it is an integral part of each building and its completion, from façade to the environment, because in such a way for new buildings in any case we are taking care of the preservation, protection and promotion of the environment. And what has often been controversial, what colleagues who disagree with this proposal have mentioned in terms of the collection of municipal fees and water costs, it is precisely clear and contributes to investors. The HNS will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51027	Thank you very much. We have replicas at the exhibition of colleagues Baranovic. First colleague, Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51028	Thank you very much. We have replicas at the exhibition of colleagues Baranovic. First colleague, Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51029	Dear Vice President, Minister. I'd like to rephrase Mr. Baranovic for a moment. I mean, with that kid being born, what they say in Dalmatia about me coming from Dalmatia, I wouldn't exactly agree with that. Unfortunately, many of my fellow citizens worked so will be born small because they belonged to the category of those who could never get a social apartment and were in a difficult situation and had to resolve their own housing issue and therefore there would be a small one. I don't think that's worth making fun of. And especially when you say that we have to go towards profiling the nation responsible for the construction of facades, I've made my remarks on the board about these facades and I'm still going to talk about it, but we can't say that our people were irresponsible all those who hadn't made a facade out of their irresponsibleness or because they didn't want it to look nice to them, so they didn't work the facade, and after that they were irresponsible. They did this out of their misery, necessity, poverty and tragedy, that they did not get a social apartment, did not belong to that privileged category and did not have opportunities, and unfortunately today we live in a difficult time when the standard is as it is and when we cannot expect for sure that the possibilities of people are such that they will be able to create an object immediately and that they will have it. We know what the cost of the facade is, I know it's small compared to the price of the building, but I can't accept this to say it was a nation of irresponsibles so far, and now we're going to build a nation of responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51030	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51031	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, your colleague Sanader is your right to accept or not to accept in any case. Well, it would be interesting to take a meter and measure the square of these objects they built in the indifference, so we'll come to the conclusion that the average square of such objects is 200 square meters, i.e. square meters of useful area and more. So much so that it was done for it and only because there was no money. Then it would be interesting to look in the yard and see what branded car is in the yard, whether it's a modest car or maybe it's outside the Mercedes house. You and I live in the same neighborhood and we know the truth, and the truth varies, from what you said were really people, there were really people, and there are more and there are more of them, and unfortunately, there will be those who needed them, who didn't have the privilege of having them once when they shared apartments assigned a social apartment, but there's also a hoodlum and there will be them, and there were those who played the system and criteria. In our undertaking to force this nation to evolve in every way, I think it's the most normal authority of the bill's legislator and it's for every praise. Otherwise, just for the end, neither do I personally belong to my family in those who have received social housing, but we are used to responsiblely and ultimately to do with our own hands what... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51032	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51033	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. counterpart Baranovic, you said it was a good provision that the municipal contribution would be paid eight days before the work began. I, and you have experience from local self-government just like I do, I'm not quite sure because it's going to require another extra effort in control, so you're going to have to go out again to control whether someone started building and whether they paid for it before. Okay, there's that part about the construction site that has to be done. How much legal we'll do when the inspection comes. But what I've reported for the replica is, in fact, your claim on the reduction of municipal contributions related to the legalization of the facilities. Well, you're right that there was a kind of punishment for those who had built before and who paid for the municipal contribution, even though we had to go back a little not a year, two, three, five, but more so remember that there were all kinds of laws where they didn't pay, so they paid, so there were all kinds of constructions. And now we're getting into a situation where we want to legalize objects, but we're coming into a situation of legalization at a time of terrible severe crisis. And not that there were almost cases that were paid, but there are cases that meant from the budget of the regional, local self-government minority still helps to pay for this municipal contribution and that penalty, because simply people in particular in rural areas have no theoretical chance of legalising objects because they are practically less valuable to them than they have to pay for both that penalty and the communal contribution. And there is this reason, so there may be some reason to look at Croatia as a whole rather than just partially.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51034	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51035	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, the answer to this first question is who will control whether there was a start of construction on behalf of the local self-government asking for money 8 days earlier is in law that will be in order after this law. So, I guess today during the day. This is the downgrading of certain powers to municipal directors in local self-government units who will be very easily able to inform their superiors about whether construction began or recorded all the beginnings of construction in space. In this way we give them concrete powers and an even more concrete function in the units of local self-government because so far it has been realistically looking disabled, and in some other segments it has remained disabled. But it'll have to settle some other laws. As for the legalisation of the facilities, it is true that legalisation occurred during the severe economic crisis, however, I will give my personal opinion on the problem. That was supposed to be done the other way. It should have been possible for citizens to pay such an obligation, to break that obligation, but not to lower the criteria, and not to send a message that people who worked legally, who paid municipal contributions in hundreds of cubes sometimes depended on the category and type of construction, we sent them a message that they were fools because not everyone who ignored the laws, people who did it because of poverty. It's a lot of bozos. It would be interesting to look at the quality, the appearance of certain illegally built objects, to assess their real value. Today, such facilities are legalized at 20, 30 kuna per metre cubic, and they have enormously high value compared to people who paid for, say, 100, even 150 in the city of Sibenik 6 years ago in the first category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51036	Damir Jelic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51037	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Regarding your analysis of legalization, you obviously did a communal contribution, and you did it correctly because at the local level there were both right and left in such things, and everyone made similar conclusions. However, we have not done much in the field without serious analysis. So when you say a message to fools or to go around the law, it is possible, but in that analysis, be more specific, obviously you do not have those experiences. I will give only one example of the area of special state concern where our, at least in the Karlova region, Croats who really have nothing to do with it. And with them the logic of reducing the communal contribution had to go completely different with some other problems that we could hear here today, so I would just supplement your analysis with these things that it wasn't exactly a message for fools all but that there were people who had entered the force of opportunity because of what was happening in the war, in problems that were incomprehensible, and there was also a local community that had to show sensitivity in this way. So I share your analysis to one level, but there are specificities that I want to point out to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51038	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51039	I agree with you in your findings, and I thank you for the supplement for the exceptions to objective circumstances that should be respected. So it's absolutely realistic and there you're absolutely right. However, the principle problem of those who did so years ago, before even before the war, even in cases where they were building on social land, or sometimes social land today owned by the Republic of Croatia or units of local self-government. We have cases like that. So, the mangupa has been and the mangupa will be precisely determined by the laws and efforts of the proposings to supplement these laws through novels we need to establish a system of normal criteria in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51040	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives of counterpart Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51041	I welcome you all, especially the Vice-President of the Parliament, the Minister of Construction and fellow representatives and MPs in the Parliament. Through my priestly and pastoral work, I was so involved in the process of building church facilities that once an engineer told me that I missed my profession. I said I didn't, but that's the kind of time I have to deal with and run things, get my licenses out and stuff. For the construction of the parish house in Kaštel Sućurc in one year I was 95 times at the Institute of Urbanism and... for construction and construction permits. It was hard to get a license, and all previous preconditions as a field, a convenient location, everything was fine but there were political reasons that could not be obtained that license. Now we're going in the opposite direction, we're giving licenses and we're making facilities where they're steep, where they don't fit, where they're actually embarrassed, not in accordance with the construction tradition in Dalmatia and the city of Split itself. So, one and the other ideological approaches make mistakes. When it comes to construction, one principle note, regardless of the conditions for improving the work of obtaining permits, our people said if you want a man to have a happier life, let him build a house. It is regardless of administrative procedures difficult and demanding work. The second thing that's been expressed is the caution of this law. As good a will as there is to move things and offices differently and better for the benefit of citizens and investors, I must say that the obstacle will certainly be in an administrative apparatus that makes it difficult and imposes its standards in order to work as little as possible and has a secure job. As far as independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament are concerned, we will certainly support this proposal of a law that goes in the first reading and we are pleased to go in two readings, not to be adopted by an urgent procedure, in the hope that they will be responsible for either working on boards or in this general debate in the assembly to listen and try to install into the final text of the law the remarks which have been made here and here. Our administration, unfortunately, is massive and I have one experience of a man who worked at the factory of St. Juraj, cement factory in Kaštel Sucurc. He said that 5 of them worked in the management section, ran accounting and all other acts and that the factory employees were about 300. Today we have a situation that the number of employees in the administration and the number of employees in the factory itself is even. It also follows us in state institutions. Let's say the former mayor knows that there are about 430 employees in the county, in the city of Split there are 450 employees and we multiply the administration but it does not become more efficient, fairer and faster than slower and ineffective. Therefore, in principle, on the occasion of this debate, I note that state institutions should work to rationalise the administration in all sectors and make life easier for the citizens and to make it easier for the permits that life means. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51042	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51043	Dear fellow Grubisic, you spoke of a moral and ethical issue, you were actually talking about the ideology of construction or the ban on construction. I'd say that to this one of yours about the mentality of construction. There was a talk earlier, there began to be a mystification of the facades, whether or not to impose the completion of the facade. Just try to get two pictures closer. There are large, huge villas that, for example, when you ride to the sea, you can see large villas in these large suburban villages, unpronounced with many rooms and Mercedes in the yard. And you have, say, a small house in Međimurje filled with gardens where flowers and little Opel Corsa are. It's a matter of mentality, it's not about that. The least of the problems are the facades in this law, and I think one of the best decisions is just to make it. When the house is built then you need those spikes of yours and you'll be born a diet I don't agree with at all, etc. Because I think it's a matter of mentality and ideology. That's where I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51044	Answer? Comrade Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51045	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's a respected colleague of yours you said you worked on objects of sacral definition we can say so and I know it's very hard to get licenses there because there's always a conservative and protected objects and it's all hard. How do you think it's just hard to get a permit in, say, a few miles of nogostairs or 10, 20km of water or a drain when you have to solve tens and tens and hundreds of particles in the property, what do you think that's just hard? And if that kind of thing doesn't define itself in a special way, it's gonna be hard again. And now I'm connecting what was and the debate before that these projects that come to us in infrastructure are basically very important and dependent on this law that we're going to make because if we're going to solve these issues with this law to facilitate this property relationship process, then it's going to be a lot easier for us to make decisions. So there are even more difficult cases that are being carried out and derived from sacral objects and objects that are protected there are those infrastructures that are very important to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51046	And Ante Sanader replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51047	So the correction for the record, it's not 400 employees in the county. It's 200 employees. But it's not the people who work in bureaucracy who hire them. So often here in the debates, everyone locks in and out on red tape and people who work in the administration and these people fight for... like anyone who hires we can look for that responsibility and not attack people who work there. It's not their fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51048	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51049	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the law and its first question, the 194th article. But what matters is how much of this goes down in the building in the Republic of Croatia. Viewing the figures of the past few years is also important legalisation, but looking at the construction segment and the total revenues that were 2011. 44 billion and 820 million and their decline by 6.5% in 2012 to 41 billion and 900 we see that the less interest of people is in building but also state investment. Looking at the GDP of the Republic of Croatia, we can say that 5.8% is just a building. Construction is an important segment but it is also an important speed and operationality of obtaining permits. Often in local self-government units, we have had examples and opportunities to see certain investors give up after making conservation studies, and conservatives stop them in construction. The length of waiting for individual documents in the process itself was also a clear problem. But looking at the length of the license for everyone is imperative to get it in one day, but looking at these legal solutions but also at the practice where the length of the license is much longer then we can say that there are more problems in our system, not just the issue of our legalization of 820 thousand objects in the Republic and the question at this point whether we have enough capacity or not for that legalisation. Is looking at the counties, watching units of local administrations that are shut up precisely with the topic of legalisation, we can ask ourselves whether they will be able to successfully solve all the problems and all the questions that will be raised in the coming months, in the coming years after the adoption of this legal solution before them and whether they will be able to meet the very needs of our fellow citizens. At this point in time, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I am interested in how many tight procedures the architects have so far been related to their responsibility in certain projects, as well as to the powers given to them in the future I do not know that they were there. Therefore, the abolition of that commission for the sake of beauty I think will be a problem for us, sometimes it has been a limiting factor for investors, but it is our architects that someone has to control before the permit itself or the final solution. It is clear that this alignment is with EU legislation and their directives, but we feel well that our citizens do not live like those in Germany, that they do not receive such things as those in Germany and that there is something called tradition, there is something called helping a neighbor or family building. It is clear that this defines both design and construction all the way to an administrative permit but we also often had an example that projects to remove certain buildings were also a problem, as well as non-compliance with inspection supervision. Therefore, there are problems that local administration units feel and I'm afraid that in the coming months and all citizens who want to sell their real estate will feel the problem, normally the financial one first, and the second question is how many energy certification companies there are on the market. It is clear that in the end there will always be a question of local administration units that must address the issue of permits and the implementation of all laws. The question was just before, and my colleague Bačić mentioned the tailor, but we all know when we don't go straight to the surgeon's desk when it comes to medicine, but there are procedures and also an idea project according to this location permit, an idea and space check, and also an implementing project on the implementation of more important details means construction, quantity, but also the position of the armature. I know this problem well, but I've had more problems with individual ministries myself, so I'm going to give you an example now. For example, building a swimming pool in the city of Osijek where we sought the position of the Ministry of Environmental Protection should the Environmental Impact Study or not where renewable energy sources are used. We've been waiting for six months, we've often called, but we haven't received the answers, I'm just considering it for expertise because the problem wasn't in the project. I can also say that I know well what utility directors do in the field, which is their expertise. And I don't think the communal directors will be able to control these procedures, and because of their expertise, they're also competent in the control process itself. But often our investors working in urban areas always question the conservatives, the credibility of the study, and the compensation of the conservatives themselves. This is what we need to deal with further, which is why we need to strengthen the infrastructure because we also have European funds coming in. It will not be possible to wait long for the necessary permits, for the necessary implementation of the projects and just... which we have often had the opportunity to see on the ground that certain exemptions cannot be made and relate to an important infrastructure that has been drawn up in individual plans of the local administration unit itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fundamental question is what are the reasons for the adoption of this law and it has always been the custom to respect both those solutions and those suggestions that come from local administration units through the debate itself. We expect that through the first reading and the suggestions that we will give, which we will present, which you will get to think carefully because right now the units of local administration feel the very problems in the field. If competition is to be increased, then the law needed to formulate differently in order to pass legal and financial security to investors, for example, certain administrative procedures should be abolished and turned into maladministration. Also do not involve neighbours as parties in the process, increase the number of buildings for which no act is required, increase the number of simple buildings. The freedom of artistic creation is also guaranteed, it must also be guaranteed to architects. Just before, it was a matter of architects. It is clear that we often feel the problem of an investor coming and wants to commercialise a particular particle with as many squares and that then the architect is pressed right between the law of the possibility of the particle itself and the pressure of the investor. If the architect doesn't do it for sure, the investor will no longer use it as an architect. Therefore, the very control of the project by both the sides and the commission for beautiful but other institutions has always been welcome as a suggestion in the process of realising a particular project. The abolition of an idea project for a large majority of procedures is unacceptable because the proposal is to prescribe an idea project or an idea solution as part of the project documentation obligation and to issue a local authorisation as an irregular act on the basis of it. The suspension of the implementation project as a mandatory part of the documentation at the site is technically unacceptable because without the implementation project as a construction site of the documentation... Important requirements for construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The suspension of project supervision is also highly unacceptable and is contrary to individual documents. The abolition of copyrights also, the opinion of the designer who designed the idea solutions and we will have examples of where we are now going to the main projects and we already have the idea solutions that exist before the adoption of this Law. In a unique way, the calculation of the gross and net surface for all processes should also be laid down, and a simple, uniform calculation of the volume for the purposes of calculating the municipal and water contribution and the removal of the analytical statement for the calculation of the measure of the building, for the calculation of the surface and volume, should be taken of the net volume area. Just before, there was a question and a communal contribution. Most units of local administration have just provided the possibility of regional self-government to pay the municipal contribution in more wars. The first war was usually up to 30% of the amount, and I believe that investors are coming out and that they need to be nurtured in the next time just so they can close the financial structure as well. But normally, in these plan sizes, the local administrations plan their incomes, income and expenditure side of the budget. In the technical review, there is no longer the mandatory opinion of the designer, architects, that the building was built in line with project documentation and the main project. About the architectural success I am a river, it was once a problem but I think it wasn't bad to have opinions and them, meaning professions that made certain suggestions about the project itself. What we feel as a problem is that there is no understanding of the social needs and the lack of resources of our citizens is being introduced within 3 to 5 years for the completion of the external part of the family house and yard. We know during Austria-Hungarian times when Slavonia and Baranja were quite rich that people could arrange their properties and that it was prescribed control. But in today’s day, I think it is important to prescribe it right in urban areas, tourist resorts, individual cities. But I think they're in too much of a hurry when it comes to rural spaces or some places that aren't touristic. Because our people living in Slavonia, Baranja, most of them tend to scrape a roof over their heads, but it's always a priority that they can produce something on their own land and only then decide on a facade. But at this point, it is evident that they can live hard and even harder to edit the facade from what they produce. Therefore, we think that the 3-5-year deadline is too serious for our Slavs and Baranjas, as well as for people from all over Croatia. Therefore, I believe that the municipal order can also prescribe certain city cores, tourist settlements, protected spaces not only for the construction of new properties but also for the editing of fronts where there are frequent places and important places. Therefore, we believe that in all Croatia in all and rural areas this should not also be done. We don't feel that this legal solution reduces bureaucracy, we don't feel that the speed and operationality of obtaining a permit will be somewhat higher because it depends on a lot of things that should also be edited. Therefore, the HDSSB club will not be able to support this law. We think there's a lot of these changes to be made. We understand that it is necessary to comply with European directives but that this should be done in one flexible way in the environment in which we live, that is the Republic of Croatia, especially I am talking about Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51050	Thank you very much. We're on our way to replication. Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51051	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you were talking about the role of the local self-government unit. Of course, in that part you have experience because you have met with it by acting on those levels. You were also talking about the role of communal directors, teaching this law and implementing this law in that second part. You were also talking about probably local self-government should say something about this law. I hope that this law will not, in that express procedure, come faster to the second reading and final adoption than that the association of cities and associations of municipalities will have the opportunity to implement it once again as a final proposal after the first reading of the debate, give their comments, their proposals because it is largely and largely related to the functioning of local self-government. And what's the role of local self-government today, I wouldn't want it to be any further. I have a good example. Here's to asking citizens to build some houses in my town in Križevci we sent an inspectorate to report that we have complaints of citizens about illegal construction, unmarked plates, boards, etc. We've received an answer to send concrete pictures. We sent concrete pictures, and there was no answer after that. After that, we also wrote a letter to the Minister where we warn, but there is no answer. That's what it looks like in local self-government and state services. I just hope, I think the communal directors can do it better, that local self-government can do it better, I just hope that with the transfer of jobs to local self-government, and that part of that money that's now leaving for civil servants who need to do the job. Or the inspector's jobs will end, so they won't need them anymore, so give us, have them give us that money, and we'll do the job without a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51052	Thank you. Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51053	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, you have enough experience in local self-government units, but I believe that municipal directors and their expertise and knowledge, but the work they're already doing will not be able to do this part of the job when it comes to inspection supervision. But it is evident when it comes to ruins by units of local self - government that even when inspection controls were established, the property owners did not act accordingly. So I'm going to give you both an example and a city of Osijek that had and funds secured, but you can't enter the property of a private owner and remove certain things if they threaten our citizens. But what's often happening to us, it's just ex-AUDIO or now DUDI or whatever it's called, that the owner of the property means state and that he's jeopardizing our residents, the communal directors are also recording it as an inspection, but the state is doing nothing. That thrombus is a really limiting factor, but I would say a great risk to those who walk through those spaces. Comrade Hrg, you are right to more and more centralize things in Croatia, that in Croatia what has been announced is not really going and therefore I express my concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51054	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51055	Dear colleague Bubalo, you said one sentence if artists are guaranteed artistic freedom then freedom must be guaranteed to architects. I probably didn't fully understand your claim, so you'll probably explain in reply to the replica. Something probably investors dictate the architect's solution. However, fellow Bubalo, there are artists who dictate solutions or the market or directors or publishers and who comply, but there are also uncompromising artists whose performances, images, books and even banned, and yet how they work and how they fight for freedom, by their actions, by their uncompromising struggle. I don't think it's necessary to talk about it anymore. The architects will have as much freedom as the freedoms are fought for, they won't have a pillow of freedom. However, among them as well as some artists, there is a great muse to worship, and that muse is their money, and therefore their money limits their freedom. And this doubt of yours whether the inspection control will be able to perform the communal directors, I share your suspicions. I have also wondered in the debate whether the hairdressers, not underestimating this occupation, honorable occupation and many others who are not professional in this area, would be able to carry out inspection and perhaps not then the building inspectors in a subordinate position when everyone can and that the minister will probably explain what is meant by those 700, 800 people and how they will, with which tools they will do it and with which knowledge they will do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51056	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51057	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, I did talk about artistic freedom but also about freedom when we talk about an investor who dictates the process and exactly asks for a commercialisation on the facility. And that's why I stressed that it was those who were talking about something nice. on the profession, they often put the architect between investors and what is really important for a particular real estate and a particular project. You spoke, or I mentioned about the tight actions. I haven't heard of some kind of tight procedure in the case of those who have signed everything that a single investor has been looking for, and it's called a project. The architect or engineer is also an artist, and the architectural work is also an art.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51058	Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51059	I thank Madam Vice President, my colleague Bubalo, and it seems to me that in your presentation you have expressed similar, I would say very similar attitudes that I have held here during the morning and which indeed point to the shortcomings of this law and in the part where you spoke about the idea project, in the part where you spoke about the project, and we particularly agree in the section when you mention and talk about the communal contribution. Namely, you were the leader of the third largest city in the Republic of Croatia. You yourself know how much infrastructure equipment building land is necessary, quality collection of municipal contributions. I therefore agree with you that it was possible for this law to resolve this in another way that would allow the investor, at the beginning of his previous documentation, when he must provide funds for the start of construction and when he lacks funds to bridge that time with a simple agreement between the unit of local self-government that charges the municipal contribution and investors. He doesn't have to charge, I want to pay a communal contribution right away. He was able to sign an agreement with the local self-government unit and then in wars, and such cases are very large, and this law can also prescribe within what time limit he can pay. In this way, we will agree that there are and there are many because such examples are very many, investors who, if they have not now paid for the municipal contribution and should make an effort by the local self-government unit to make efforts through executions, court proceedings, etc. I don't understand why in this way, this bill does not make me but the government creates such problems for the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51060	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51061	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, you said nicely that this law is flawed and has a lot of inadequacy, and that's why we said on behalf of the HDSSB Club that we are against this law. But you also mentioned the implementation projects that we think are important, because we often talk about playgrounds or some university library, so when we combine what is needed for playgrounds or a university library, then we can say that we are concerned with such a legal solution. However, we believe that the income of local administration units is a communal contribution. Therefore, the units of the local administration are logical to decide when, at which point and with which interest will be charged by the municipal contribution. But I can also do projections over the next year or two days depending on the height of the communal contribution itself. Therefore, the units of the local administration should be left to decide as they have so far. Up to 30% must be charged when the license is issued, and the rest must have an agreement and can be charged in wars. This helps investors greatly, because it is imperative that we have as much work in the building as possible. Because I mentioned earlier that the construction sector is falling year after year and we're recording the flood statistics of the construction sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51062	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51063	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I've heard a lot of words inadmissible, unacceptable, so you've put yourself on the side of the local self-government unit, you've tattooed on investors who dictate, and in fact it shows that you weren't obviously an investor, so you don't know what problems investors have to get into the paper, the license, and to invest, and we all advocate investors. I think the state with new laws and local self-government particularly regulates with its spatial-planned documentation, detailed plans and conditions and cubics of building on all particles on which investors have the legitimate right to work. We just want to simplify the whole story and raise a level of responsibility that hasn't been up until now. Look, the execution projects, we all know more or less that they've been working and so on. Why? Because most of the larger objects asked for certain changes. What's crucial is we all know in the building in the front row is statistics and there are licensed people for that statistic. What he'll do inside the building investor let him, he invests, he takes credit, he takes risks. Let us assure him that all those who work the projects are responsible for any possibility or situation to misdesign, respond and be assured that no one will be wrong because he is aware that he is losing his license and that he is responding both materially and criminally. Let us allow the facades and not just for energy efficiency, but so that if the building is built it is really complete and completed and let us not stop investors. The architects can manage within the framework of the law, and that is ultimately their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51064	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51065	Thanks a lot, buddy. I would agree with you that units of local administration define spatial plans and clearly know what can be done in certain parts. But you also mention facades. It is not the same that there is a facade here in the city center of Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka or in a tourist resort or it is in a village where nobody actually passes except the locals and where someone wants to stay, make a roof over his head. Therefore, local administration units should edit it in a communal order. Whether or not they're going to ask for a façade or not, therefore, the investor himself also often speaks a little earlier in the replica about the investor. Let the investor decide whether or not it will end, but surely it is everyone's desire to finish it. But it's known that there are places where people are weaker in property. But also when you talk about individual projects and what I just said about the commercialization of individual projects, you had examples because of this commercialization that it was in projects and rooms without windows. I hope you wouldn't like to live in such a room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51066	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51067	I'd like to replicate this for you, Mr. Bubalo, about the communal directors as well. I think the communal directors can perform that function, perhaps not those who are employed today, but if they are prescribed by systematizing other conditions that they can perform that function, and that is particularly important because of decentralisation. I see here one sign of decentralisation to be given to the local administration one part of the business because I see no reason why some inspectors and State Inspectors would manage what local self-government can. That's why I support that communal monks can do that. It's not right here to insult them so that hairdressers can't be communal monks. I think they can really be, they have a sense of beauty. It's the hairdressers who know what's nice and can, in that sense, satisfy maybe these jobs they're doing right now. And I support absolutely this with regard to façade and communal order because I don't think it's the same Split Riviera, Zagreb Ilica, the Republic Square and some last village. And I especially think it would be correct for the Minister for Second Reading to prepare something about the Construction Act in those rural areas. The Minister's talking, she's not listening right now, but here we are, we should give her maybe a request together to the ministry that in these rural areas still, to define these simple buildings, to get closer and help rural areas. That it is not the same to build in a village or encourage people to return to their economies family and village. And that's why they should be able to build, through a second reading of the Construction Act, those in those environments more easily, that these simpler buildings and this... adapt to these needs of villages and people living in these rural areas. And I couldn't agree more with the facades, Ilica and the last village in some rural area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51068	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51069	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sanader and I have jointly advocated decentralisation and as mayor but since decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia does not come, especially not fiscal. Obligations are being transferred, and the budget of the local administration units is getting smaller. But when you talk about municipal directors, then you know well that there are some municipalities that do not have sufficient fiscal capacity and that do not even have communal directors. That's also another question. Just as the local administration units had to introduce the fielders, no revenue almost came from the fielders. So, when we talk about facades, they can be prescribed in this order, not one of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51070	And Drazenko Pandek, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51071	Thank you. So in your debate, you referred to a provision that stipulates the obligation to place a facade on objects. So I'd like to point out, then, that I've come to terms with these provisions that I've been suggesting, as far as I'm concerned, is not in the first row of aesthetics, which would be concluded by your debate where you say that these facades should be primarily mandatory in some urban environments, in the heart of cities. Racio of these provisions is primarily energy efficiency. Therefore, in addition to the fact that, of course and aesthetically well-looking, the investor, i.e. the builder, i.e. the owner of such a facade, will have a significant savings in energy consumption clearly that the state to which I appeal therefore to the team in the ministry and to the minister to consider in some inter-resor cooperation and to make it easier for investors and owners of the facility to finance such facades. That certain fiscal incentives might be considered. But in any case, I think that initiative and that proposal should be supported. It has a higher economic logic, I would say, because our economy can therefore find resources to rebuild, i.e. to place new facades while the energy we import and affecting the increased balance of payments deficits we do not have in Croatia, and it is certain that this measure can affect at a certain higher economic level, I would say, a reduction in that deficit. So I think it's good and it's necessary, but in any case, we need to find a way to make it easier for investors and property owners to borrow, whether in some other way put these facades and the possibility of putting facades on their facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51072	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51073	Thank you very much. When it comes to facades, imagine the case of a Slavon who is currently working and who has taken up credit and who is going into the realization of the project. In a year, he's out of a job, he can't repay his loan, and then he still gets fines because he hasn't arranged the facade. So we're gonna kill a man. This should not be done by this law, it should be prescribed in a municipal order, but it should set the difference between the village and the city, between tourist spaces and not tourist spaces. Therefore, local administration units can do it nicely. Croatia is not Germany, it will take some time for me to believe we will catch up with Germany. We have to be optimistic, but when it comes to this legal solution, it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51074	The word was requested by Minister Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51075	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. After the clubs I'll just refer to a few topics, and this second I'll leave you a chance to finish. Indeed, we are in the ministry, and it is extremely important for us in the government that these laws go in two readings for a simple reason because any well-intentioned suggestion in the context of the law and the framework is welcome to us. On several occasions, a suit and tailor were mentioned, so I would refer to it first. Namely, my late father is a tailor and I know very well what a suit means even more than I know how to sew and sew, so I'm a period of my life and sewing, and I'm an architect, and then I'm very sensitive to architects and an architectural profession. And let's demystify the idea project. When I studied architecture and after my study of architecture and what my teachers taught me was what the design process was, there was an idea solution, it was a suit for rehearsal. An idea solution is agreed to the investor whether or not it is or not, so it is digested three, four, five times suit, but when we agree that it is the suit we end up with, and we turn the idea solution into a project that we move on with. When has an idea project been introduced into our legislation? 2007. by 2007 there was no idea project in the laws. By 2007, a gentle idea solution was mentioned. Why was it introduced just in 2007? I have one hot table here, the most reported beginnings of work were 7.5 thousand in 2007, and then it fell in 2008, no matter how much together, today in the first eight months we have reported 3 thousand beginnings. And it was logical that in that great expansion when there was an expansion of investment, when there was a lot of demand that then one of my professions stood up for the position of being an idea project in law. The idea solution, of course, has always been an idea solution. My fellow architects, my colleagues, were at my house on several occasions and we talked on several occasions even on Tuesday before the parliamentary boards, and I absolutely accept all the suggestions, all the discussions that before us the Act on Architecture and Engineering activities, that's the law we have, that's the law for which we set thee up, that's the law that we delivered to all the chambers and told all the chambers to discuss, you see, in the building there were five chambers, geodetics, architects, electricians, engineers, and I forgot the builders, but here I remembered. We told all the chambers to discuss, it's a law that defines your activity. This is the law that defines the procedure. And when someone convinces me that our architecture in Croatian spaces has experienced great expansion, great success and that works that could not have occurred by 2007, and since 2007, have been created on a fundamental idea project, I will say at the same time that the law must be an idea project. I say it very openly and clearly here, I said it very openly and clearly to my colleagues. Ideal solutions as an integral part and the prerequisite of an idea project, of course, but where is this defined? In the Act of Architecture and Engineering, which will also come before this respected House. New law amending and supplementing the new law, where? In the Regulation on the content of the project which is equally delivered to all chambers, the proposal already has a rule on the normative part to be read. So, I don't mind if someone convinces me that in Croatia's architecture such great success has arisen since 2007, thanks to an idea project that wasn't possible until 2007. An idea solution yes. 10 idea solutions yes, but when we agree which idea solution it is, then the main project and everything else. The certification, there's been quite a heated discussion here on the subject of certification, so I'm going to look back at something in this time that I have on certifications. The certification obligation is in our legislation since 2010. what it is, therefore, is a commitment and we have applied it so gently. By entering the EU, the commitment is really important and important. So it is no longer whether or not I would rather than have to, we must because these are EU directives that we must apply. That certification means we have to have information in which energy class is my apartment, my property. So when I sell my apartment to someone who buys it, I have to be clear what they buy. If he realizes what he's buying in terms of ownership then he must know that he's buying my apartment that's energy class G, D, C, so if it's the same price he'll choose to buy. There are 600 certified certificates in the Republic of Croatia. All the list of authorised certificates is on the Ministry's website. Equally frames and appreciates how much certification costs and how much it can cost on the Ministry's website. For apartments up to 50 squares of heated space there should be no energy certificate, above that should be. But not that you're going to take care of it so we can have it then, but I'm the only one who needs to know what I'm buying as a buyer. The same commitment is in the case of sales, it's not an obligation I can live in my house as long as I want if I don't want to in which energy class I don't need to know, but I've been repeating it in the legislation since 2010. All new houses that have received useful permits since 2010 have had an energy certificate. One day when I have an energy certificate, it's worth 10 years or if I've improved some energy properties, so my interest is different. And I'd just like to refer to a special geodetic background. The special geodetic basis was introduced in 2007. It is an extremely good material that has served us to obtain local permits and obtain building permits. The specific geodetic background is only one small problem, the specific geodetic bases are being created. serve as the basis for issuing the local authorisation and, following this, confirm the main project. And special geodetic bases end up in designer drawers and in our cadastre drawers. 120,000 special geodetic bases have been made since 2007 and they have not been recorded anywhere. By this law we call it a little different, we call it exactly what the geodetic profession asked for, but this is the law we say next. When it's done, it's official duty and records in the catastro. Now catastran this hour since the state geodetic administration is in charge of the ministry is agreed to record all these 120,000 special geodetic bases paid by citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are standing somewhere in drawers and we need them in the space management system. And finally get back to the architects. I ask you nicely, you know very well the process that we have been through and I look a little more intensely and Mr. Bačić knows what process he went through when he passed the Law on Legalization and who was against legalization and what profession he absolutely spoke against. Likewise, according to the latest indicators of our Employment Service, there is one profession that has not been registered at the Employment Office. I think you know what profession I'm talking about, I'm talking about architects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51076	Thank you very much. Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51077	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, obviously we didn't understand each other when we were talking about an idea project. This isn't about insisting on an idea project if your fellow architects had work to do. But here we are talking about an idea project to reduce costs for foreigners, investors, because by looking for special conditions on a strong document that is three to four times more expensive than an idea project, which is because it will eventually not be in line with the specific conditions in its subsequent change, and certainly wants to collect more than an idea project has been done. That's what you wouldn't want to get the wrong idea that we want to favor someone down here with investors, and these are primarily ordinary citizens who approach the construction of their own buildings. As for the special geodetic background. The special geodetic background of everyone in the construction process enables everyone in view of the topographic depiction that is on it, there are easier designs and there are easier and later excavated and everything that is simpler, excavated and everything that it pulls behind it. And I'll tell you that it's simpler to enter a building into a land book. You're saying that the geodetic profession supported a geodetic project if you consider it a geodetic profession to be the State Geodetic Authority, then, the State Geodetic Administration and my colleagues should have said a long time ago what it is... The project and they haven't said that yet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51078	Thank you very much. Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51079	So maybe I should simplify and say what we have today and what's foreseen by the law. We have a situation today next. I'm making an idea project that I've defined everything I should have defined and gone to a conservative who then tells me that this idea project is worth nothing but to replace windows like this, a roof like this, and everything else, we have today. In the future, based on the data from the spatial plan, based on certain ideas solutions and ideas, I go to the conservative, the conservatives give me special conditions. I respect these special conditions and go three times if I need to see a conservative, make a major project, and on the main project I get the conservator's consent that that's it. And then with that main project, I get a building permit, I do that, and I get a used permit, and I no longer argue with any conservatives or anyone else. We have an idea project today, we get a location permit on an idea project and we come... confirmation from the main project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we get here... Confirmation of the main project I changed my mind so it wouldn't be like that anymore, what's going on? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to make an amendment and an addition, a new idea project, go to change and supplement the location permit, and so on and so on. The future is next, you and I, as a designer, you as an investor agree what I want with this solution that costs the least possible get in accordance with the spatial arrangement document all the special conditions. I consume these special conditions and make them into the main project. When someone with that seal that we all love checks out the main project, that's it, and that's my safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51080	Jozo Radosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51081	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you make this set of laws a lot simpler and make the whole system more logical and build and spatial planning and then control. Well, so is this idea project you were talking about. Namely the ideas and the project are two completely different things, i.e. most often in life very far away from each other, the idea is free, it can be artistic and it can be rich and the project is a very strict document that must be handled. The one who introduced the idea project might be, therefore, a contradiction and... The defacto when you know what the content of the idea is and what the content of the concept project might have had good intentions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe he was protecting some partial interests. Both professional and professional interests, what we call a speech of the profession, can also be partial against the general interests of society and the achievement of certain jobs. What Bačić was talking about, maybe it was a motive, maybe the motive was the cost reduction, but as the idea mostly because we are not perfect, it couldn't be a project then there were these changes of the idea project, not only in the phase of reaching the project but especially in the project realization phase, which probably made this construction process more expensive than that of the idea project from the beginning, and not all the possible consultations you were talking about were done. I therefore fully support your position that this should be different and clearer than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51082	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly. She's not present, so she's losing her right to argue on this wheel. And then it's up to counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51083	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with your associates. Regarding any problem that arises in society, the view of this problem depends on which position we look at this problem and of course these positions also create different visions of problems and detecting problems and different solutions. It is not the same to observe the Law on construction from the corners of local businesses, from the corner of investors, from the corners of state offices or from the corner of the ministry. But I think the most important thing would be to consider everything, of course, but most important to take into account observations from the investor angle. The construction sector should be seen in a broader context, in a broader context because it has a very important impact on the overall economic situation in society. The number of construction permits issued in Croatia has been significantly reduced year by year and this data is alarming and it points to the necessity of amendments and procedures and laws. The minister said the law most changes procedures, however, it needs to be seen if it is looking at all the problems. He's seen enough of them. I will highlight some that may appear in practice and are not covered. For example, the investor gets a building permit, pays a municipal contribution, gets consent all and previous and later those final consents and for the technical examination is being prepared, but HEP will not connect the electricity and water supply, the local company will not join the water because there is no money to dig up the access channel.... It's cases, it happens very often. We will connect you immediately if you bear the cost of reconstruction of the existing water line because they need expansion, and when they gave permission and when they took the money, they didn't say that. It's in 50% of the cases and there's no solution to such cases. And I always build myself up, honoring exceptions where there are always extraordinary and professional people and businesses, but we should have solved where difficulties are. The investor is a company, building several buildings on a building particle, extracting a special particle for the access route, selling all the floors, parts or houses or buildings, and remaining the road owned by a legal person. That road that's a single building particle he can sell to anyone tomorrow, to a racketeer who'll stop coming tomorrow because it's his property. I think you should seriously consider, that it can't be if the road is public that then he must be publicly well. An investor, if he won't single it out for public good, can't get a building permit. And we have cases where it happens. We have to prevent anything from selling out all the apartments, selling out all the apartments, and the road remains owned by him. He can blackmail and treat customers tomorrow, make their lives miserable. We generally had a new law, a new injustice. The law on legalization is a typical example of that. There is always an honest and good man in Croatia. You are miserable to be a good and honest man in Croatia, pay taxes, pay contributions, be a responsible social being and pay exclusively the penalty and he gets hurt. Whoever opposed the law built and mocked everyone else, raised a five-story beach without any contributions, where without building with construction inspection, with a view of all the structures and political and ministries of all, we say now it's all legal, pay someone 20, someone 30 kuna. Two, three or five are down, and 100 grand isn't down. So how will the children of those whose cottage was torn down be the only one in the whole city to look at the Croatian state in the end. To treat our own people in such a way as to discriminate against our own people? That we treat investors so discriminatoryly? They asked before Mr. Bacic if he ever invested? He says he is, yes, I am. I threw it to him, and so did I, that God gave it to me that I never did. If God had given that I had never built anything in Croatia, because the one who once built it was hard to get into such an adventure twice. Those who need to change the GUPs, the PUPs, all of them can get a permit at all times and they have won, and those who have paid neatly are also waiting for the connection paid. It's time for these things to change. I think this law will help, too, enough. But a little bit of illogicality. Article 23 where the regular review of the heating and cooling and air conditioning systems in the building is carried out. It is said that the owner is obliged to keep 10 years for each established review, even where the review is required every year or every two years. Why keep something for 10 years, if he has to every two years. It is logical that it must be kept for 10 years if every 10 years as provided for in Article 23, paragraph 1, but not for all, so I would ask that it be corrected until the second reading. At the same time, who can when empowering persons for energy certification is indicated who can't get all the powers. I mean, if he can't participate in the public procurement of a person who would contribute to investment or economic activity to economic growth and can't participate because he has outstanding tax obligations, then he shouldn't, nor should he get a certificate from someone who has outstanding tax obligations. And I think that any legal solution that is given or allowed to work on behalf of the State would be a prerequisite for having neatly paid taxes and contributions and that would also be incorporated into Article 33. Article 49, when a natural person who is an investor is able to carry out the entire main project himself, I think that this condition should be thrown out that he is a first-timer, and that everything remains because a first-timer, for a first-rate, is a demanding job. I often warn here that someone outside the political circles persistently as if there was an invisible lobby, an invisible hand that pushes some first-rates and some high school in a high school. I have a need to stand up to it. It's not the same as being a graduate architect of architecture and a first-grader, it's not for comparison, and I can't do the same job and I shouldn't. I'd like you to consider that if possible. Infringements. I read them carefully. It's mostly about the investor. Just an investor, but if it's supposed not to connect the facility to water and electricity without a building permit, how come there's no violation provision for whoever's doing it? Please, let it be implanted. Which is the state of association of the building and does not have a construction permit on water and electricity. So we have hundreds of thousands of such examples. And not to provide for a misdemeanor provision for that, and for the investor, 100,000, did he start investing in the project? Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much. Lock up a replica and you'll continue.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51084	Thank you very much. Kresimir Baranovic, replica. Excuse me, Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51085	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51086	And there was Kresimir, too, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51087	Probably my much more famous last name inspired you. Dear Marić, it was interesting to listen to your presentation in the part where it actually gave the same conclusions as my presentation, and it is about the benefits we have given people have some social sensitivity and appreciation moment but I think we have made a huge mistake, and it is about making the cost of communal contributions for those people who have ignored the law and built it illegally. And you have very well concluded what kind of message we have sent as a society to all those who have respected the law often detached the last funds from the family budget to comply with the legal provisions of paying for the municipal contribution. However, I must tell you that one thing you have failed to notice is what damage has been done now to local self-government units as well as to the construction sector. During the exposure yesterday, someone noticed that public investments and investments resulting from the work of units and the taking of units of local self-government in municipal infrastructure, in equipment, are in building facilities. A large part of the investment in Croatia. They were financed from a municipal contribution collected in a manner prescribed by law and collected serious funds while collected on correctly defined tariffs. Now that we're raising, we're pre-election, I'm going to call it very directly, and I'm going to truthfully make this joke out of the collection of communal contributions, I need to use that term. We have now questioned the functioning of local self-government units and the filling of budgets and budget items from the position of municipal contribution. Now we will have a situation where items of income will be filled with 50, 40 or 30% of the amount compared to previous times. And the builders who have so far lived on these funds will lose their jobs. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51088	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51089	Thank you, dear colleague Baranovic. It's not that I didn't remember, I didn't have more time and I respect the vice president. But when you talk about contributions, I don't think the amount of contributions paid corresponds to the level of infrastructure building. And for one reason. Because it wasn't spent on purpose. And no one answered for that. Contribution, fellow Boxtija climate-headed, of course, is not the same, from every corner is different, so not every municipality, every city, every municipal but there are cases that not even in a small amount but in a larger one where the contributions paid for the construction of the infrastructure are paid for the salaries. There is no responsibility and with all due respect to local self-government local self-government is often the biggest obstacle to investment, often. The director of the waterworks in some small community is God, Sheriff. It's not in each one, but there's also where the sheriff is and where you have to beg him to join you... Never, but I don't know if anyone's being punished for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if any surveillance engineer was denied a license to convince that the facility was built according to the main project, and has anyone ever run an analysis of whether it was actually built or otherwise? Is the isolation of 12cm Styrofoam in the main project or is it 5cm? That's why, both here and here, infringement provisions on them and withdrawal of the license should be installed. But there's no predicting surveillance at all. When did someone come in and run an analysis? And drastic punishment predicted for those who didn't respect it? Is it really an arbitration that is intended or not, and is not in many cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51090	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51091	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So said Mr. Maric, by passing the Law on Legalization, an honest and responsible man suffers. I appreciate your performances always, and I must admit that you really always advocate access and principle of honesty and accountability, but you belong and you sit in benches, you belong to the HDZ Club during which these unfair and irresponsible actions have just taken place. So hundreds of thousands of illegal objects were built without the state doing anything. And not just in that area. Many unfair entrepreneurs did not pay taxes, so we came to 51 billion unpaid taxes and contributions, and the state did nothing, the Tax Administration did nothing, the HDZ government did nothing or did not do enough to prevent this dishonesty and that injustice, and the suffering of an honest and responsible man. And when this government introduces order in all areas of life and therefore in the area of construction and everything, it does just that so that no honest and responsible man will suffer and that in the future in this country live equally and responsibly before the law and that... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51092	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51093	A colleague of Radinovic's most legalized facilities were built during the former state. The biggest riot in building maintenance stems from buildings built in the former state. The largest number of those who do not pay the reserve is from those who received the apartment socially and later bought it for a minimum price. Of course that's where the injustices were done. I am, and I don't like to talk about it, but when you're already working on order and honesty, I was at the firm working in the former state and the only one who didn't get an apartment because I didn't have only one condition to get an apartment, and that's membership in your Party. And when you introduce order, it is not the introduction of order to forgive hundreds of millions of kuna taxes to certain privileged entrepreneurs and natural persons, and to close cafes by ferry or by buildings for 150 kuna determined not but by a determined surplus or missing in the register, rather than an unpaid tax. It's not the introduction of order, it's new discrimination and new dishonesty. Where is the right to come and forgive someone 100 million kunas and continue to work as if nothing had happened, or a billion kunas or three billion kunas, as there is a case? And now he's going to compete with someone who's doing business neatly and paying taxes for his entire working life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51094	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51095	Dear counterpart Maric should be reminded that it is precisely the law that allows the connection to illegally built buildings that Racan's government has adopted. That's when they introduced one chaos, a mess, and that's what needs to be remembered. When we discussed the Law on the Legalisation of Improperly Built Objects, I said, I think it was then Minister Vrdoljak, that it was a moral and ethical issue, above all a moral and ethical question. You spoke of justice and injustice, that here it was done by this law was done many injustices. You're right when you say a lot of people built it illegally with money, where it shouldn't have been. The hotels, the big buildings that they rent and didn't narrow them down. What's it gonna cost them, my God, is to put as much money in their pocket as possible and buy the uglier car. And those who make money in these illegal facilities and now the state is investing in them and they say we're going to bring it down, what someone said before almost doesn't give any money to beg them, you legalize it, we're going to pay you legalization, and we're going to reward you for what you've legalized. I mean, it's a big comedy we often do here in the Parliament, actually a comedy that grows into a tragedy, so I guess it's a sign of a tragedy. Yes, by correcting when we helped those who illegally built there are a lot of people who couldn't, who didn't have the money, who were building out of pure necessity, but that should have been well prepared, not put all of them in the same basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51096	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51097	My colleague Vuksic, often when I analyze the laws, I see that they are more tailored to individuals than to society. Well, I can tell something like that here, but I'm trying to make suggestions as much better as possible. I didn't want to look back at who he was at what time he was bringing, when you said that Racan's former government had brought it, but whoever brought it is bad no matter who brought it. The amnesty of those who have done evil is the richest layer. It's not analyzed whether someone made something out of an emergency or out of an obstetrics. So if you analyze who didn't pay taxes in Croatia, who doesn't pay electricity, then the first thing to do is to get a pension to go to the post office or the bank and pay for electricity and directing. He doesn't pay the directors in my entrance the richest person, he doesn't pay for the stairs, we don't have the instruments that won't pay the reserve, let alone co-finance the internship. This law doesn't help that. How do you solve these problems? How do you get someone to log? He's the only one who's been taken away from his property. He doesn't arrange the environment, he's taken away his property, he doesn't arrange the facade, the city builds a facade for him, and he sets up a invoice. Find solutions to those hoots that have destroyed this society and that continue to destroy this society. And here's the Strategic Investments Act today at the Government is another one that does so to discrimination injustice and it's for individuals. Imagine the strategic interest of Croatia is a shopping mall, so these strategic interests have destroyed us and brought us to the stick as we are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51098	Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51099	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague, unfortunately, you have said with one conclusion that it is the experience of an investor to build something in Croatia and unfortunately you have said very difficult and bad and that you should not work in Croatia. Especially in Parliament, we should not say anything because we have to do everything to attract investment in Croatia to build something. I'd like to say as I say in Slovakia for 50 years when big investment started, here was such information in the paper the other day that an auto consortium came to Slovakia and within a year provided over several thousand jobs in Slovakia. But he doesn't get it right away in a year. 166 hectares of land immediately received support, incentives, roads were built even an industrial track to them and I believe then that authority which you yourself said was an ingenuity from local and national level. The investment was not dealt with by any mayor and the chief dealt with personally by the prime minister. Now there's these strategic investments and construction laws where someone can make all the old ones you said possible. And that we're doing a construction zone, an entrepreneurial zone, then the one whose property this property is... allow 10 years for him to call on whether it's his property or not to sell at a price of 5 euros per square or 10 thousand euros per square because you can't vote him. This Construction Act makes it very possible now and let's get people to start building something in Croatia. It's not this year's fault, we've been building nothing in Croatia for 10 years. These laws certainly make it possible for us to discuss them yesterday, today and further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51100	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51101	Thank you very much. I came back from Germany last night, you know what they call bureaucrats in Croatia who work to issue construction permits? The concrete heads, and some wooden heads, that's what they told me to call us. For a reason, they're used to everything, and they're not used to it anywhere else. But this is one proposal, so you can see eight days predicting the law that a valid permit must be issued from a technical examination. And what if he doesn't? Will the head of the outpost at least be removed? Is there at least going to be a review? There's no law. The Minister's gone, I've studied none. Placed as head of inspection in one place the one under whose supervision while in power was built 10 facilities illegally on the beach. The building inspector is always the same, and with their blessing we have brought Croatia into this state. The worst thing there is we're pulling to the surface to arrange society, honor with exceptions again, always have to be fenced, honors with exceptions are there if we weren't like that we wouldn't have survived. But let's give one indication that we'll try to eliminate those, where there's a violation provision that they'll pay the person responsible for issuing a valid permit within eight days that they'll pay 30 thousand kuna fines if they don't. And we have a misdemeanor provision for the investor 15 of them 100 grand or 30 thousand kunas if he didn't accidentally report a sign or something there. There is no responsibility of the administration, and nothing seems to protect us from being irresponsible, and that irresponsibleness has cost us dearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51102	And Vice President Milorad Batinic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51103	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maric, your debate was not to say right-hand politically colored, I would say sooner if it were from the heart and objective. But when you mention the Law on the legalization of injustices done to people, they should never be generalized. Namely, this Law on Legalisation allows many people who, even before the 1990s, were forced to build buildings, upgrade but also those who had upgraded buildings after the 1990s or even built simple buildings, auxiliary buildings. And when we went to the offices, then the state administrations said, you just make, I have an example from my own place, you make, and then we'll come in and measure, and then we'll figure it out. It's not done to this day. So, of course, there are also those negativity and it's hard to law, any law that can be fair to all, as you say. What happened, which was that this law, in which case, did not apply, or the last deadline for submitting the Law on Legalisation if it hadn't been, if it hadn't coincided with the date of the local elections, would not have come to believe me to reduce the amount of municipal contributions to that facility, would have remained identical, would have remained the same. Of course, that's the part that the law can't influence because then and there was this debate in the Parliament that the state interfered in local self-government affairs. However, every responsible mayor, chief, city council has failed to say this petty, low political urge, and has raised points on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51104	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51105	Thank you very much. Vice President Batinic, so I'm avoiding color for credibility, but we can't say that the government can't do anything. The government can do anything. The government could pass a law prohibiting the reduction of contributions to, during, and that period. She could, now, pass a law to put an end to the economic crisis that hit Croatia for the next five years. Such a law can be passed. But the law must not be passed that would further discriminate. And of course I agree that there is no need to generalise, and I'm not generalizing, but the law has generalized. The law predicted that it was the same to build without permission a barn in Babi's beam and in Makarska on the beach hotel on five floors. And the Law on Legalisation had to provide that some objects should never have been legalized or legalized. The law on legalisation should also provide for the property of all those who have illegally built. So it would be non-generalizing rather than sending segments to individual ones. If someone bought the companies, illegally built and failed to make a profit and did not pay the contribution, and the city center made an illegal building. Legalize it and place it in the same basket, in the same treatment as someone who is somewhere on agricultural land outside, not on an island, not on an island on agricultural land, but in Slavonia or in Lica on agricultural land or in Clay. This cannot be treated in the same way by law or in the same way by law. That's why I was talking about the injustice of that law and he ignored it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51106	Thank you very much. Now we'll set a break by 3:00 and the first in the debate will then be a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51107	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] For individual discussion of Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, this Construction Act has a number of provisions under the European Union Directive. Surely there are provisions that make it difficult for us to process, which will also collect the outcome of the necessary documentation, but we must adhere to them. A number of provisions want to simplify the process of documenting, we also support this as well as the tendency to inform the entire system and spatial arrangements, as well as the outcome of the necessary documentation. However, the provision and the article of the law relating to the municipal and water contribution, which I speak first of all from the position of the unit leader of local self-government, and I believe that the others, regardless of which party we belong, will agree with, a provision saying that the investor is only required to pay the municipal contribution, and the water contribution under specific regulations will be another provision of legislation that makes it difficult to work in units of local self-government. We know that the communal contribution is strictly dedicated income, which means that it can finance the construction of new unclassified roads, public areas, public lighting and cemetery. I think it deserves special attention because it is not an income from which neither the representation nor the manifestation nor the personal income will be financed. A short time ago, we heard a colleague, Marić, mentioning such cases, I am sure that the revision not only makes an observation but also acts on that basis so that there is almost no such thing, if not that it will be processed in the way that it should be done. I think it's inadmissible for the Construction Act to hinder each other's construction, construction and investment in municipal infrastructure. So far, investors have been coming to local self-government units, asking for the urgent outcome of a solution to collect municipal contributions and make payments. In this way, the construction of infrastructure would slow down, and nothing more significant would speed up the process of obtaining building permits, and cities and municipalities would be left to pay certain amounts through the implementation of the bill. I wonder if it would go the way it's done again as in recent days when these executions have to work on personal incomes, and if the amount of 40, 50 and more thousand kunas how to charge it to someone who has 4 and 5 thousand kunas or what's a far bigger problem, that's when investors start the documentation and build a multi-state facility, sell it, and then simply disappear from that area, to whom they charge a municipal contribution, to which the sequestration of property can then go as units of local self-government. I think it was unnecessary to change that article, and I believe that in the second reading to please all of us in local self-government units, we will be able to read that again the obligation to pay the municipal contribution precedes the outcome of the permits. I would like to remind everyone that the maximum municipal contribution in 2010 was 180 kuna, then decreased and now the maximum is 138 kuna. I would not agree with colleagues today who have said in the debate that local self-government units have significantly reduced the amount of income communal contributions due to pre-election promises and that, of course, many of them will very soon resort to re-changes of their decisions in order to have as much revenue as possible on this basis. The city of Vodice has freed certain categories since 2008, and such a decision is made to this day so that those young families who first resolve their housing issue for those who have been in Vodice for more than 10 years have a communal contribution of only 8 kuna. We only have this maximum amount for multi-state facilities and not those built for tourist purposes, but only again for sale. This way, I am afraid, will significantly reduce the amount of funds charged, and a smaller amount of the proceeds means less investment of local self-government units and certainly another fall and impact on the construction sector and employment in construction. Anyway, the amount of funds collected over the last few years has been reduced, so if we go back to that in 2010, which I mentioned when it was possible for 180 kunas to be charged at a cubic meter, and now only 138, let's remember that the VAT was 22% at the time. Now we have VAT 25%, cities and municipalities we know are not free of VAT or have the right to repay these funds. Then a square meter of the new asphalt screen cost 80 kuna, and now we have 120 kuna. Meanwhile, there are a number of obligations on certificates and atheists. I wonder how much new investment we're going to have on this basis right now. In May 2013, we brought amendments and additions to the Water and Association Law, and we also threw out how you say made it easier for investors. From which resources we will build these new waternets. So now we have a problem with the collection of the communal contribution, and we've already lost another income. When we talk about the communal contribution, let us not forget that these funds are essentially cities and municipalities that are preparing projects to run for European funds. We expect a lot from them. So that's the amount we can design with, get out the permits, and we plan to co-finance the part that's left to us. So, if we get 80% of the remaining 20% from the European Fund, I wonder which funds the city or municipalities will settle from so that they can monitor the construction. So here I am once again asking you on behalf of all units of local self-government, all colleagues, mayors, heads of our budgets, our citizens who each year expect new paved streets and new enlightened streets for which children go to school, and on behalf of new projects to consider and re-establish a provision that would precede the outcome of the confirmation of the main project or building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51109	Thank you. Otherwise, the municipal contribution is calculated according to areas, not social category or something else. You can't put the opposites of the Law on the Communist Economy. Then the city council made the wrong decision. Thank you. We have two final hearings on behalf of the clubs. The first reported on behalf of the HDZ club Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51110	I thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Ministers with Associates here at the end or at the end of the debate on the Construction Act I would only like to repeat on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club and before the Government directs us to the second reading of this set of Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in the sub-supervision and the Building Inspection repeat those views that I think we made this morning during the debate, which the Government would like to perceive, to listen to them better than we did here during the morning and that in the second reading of the law, such ideas are then realized. In fact, we remain in the position that for investors the opportunism, especially for smaller investments, is for buildings that you are in Article 5. The law classified the third and fourth groups to establish an idea project instead of the main project as the basis for the construction permit, and then as is the case in the applicable law and prescribed before the start of the construction, the investor shall determine the obligation to design the main project. That's one thing. And the other thing is that for really complex projects, complex projects are defined by law by the creation of an implementing project, not to be optional, to be mandatory for those investments, those buildings that, according to their complexity, complexities require the realization of the project before the start of construction, and certainly also later because of possible disputes that occur between investors and performers in order to strengthen the position of one or another of the participants in the construction. The second thing we want to point out, which is somewhere in the media today, I'm reading that it was partly dragged into the government's session through this second one, through the Final Proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects. It refers to the central government's relationship to local self-government. We believe that yesterday's proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction where implementing spatial documents are prescribed to be produced by the Government, or the County, and more for those premises, it will not be in the jurisdiction of local self-government, that this is a kind of marginalisation of local self-government in part of the powers guaranteed by the Constitution. When we add, in addition, that they are no longer a party to the procedure as prescribed by the Construction Act, then this frustration and marginalisation of local self-government will be very much expressed in the days following the adoption of such a law. And a third thing. We understand your approach to ease the investor's financial costs, reduce financial costs at the start of the construction permit, and then, after the execution of the building permit, if it moves into the realisation of the loan before financial institutions, to include in that loan a municipal contribution so that it can pay more easily to local self-government units. I believe that if that effect is to be achieved that can be achieved and in a way that determines that the investor is obliged to sign an agreement with a local self-government unit which will be obliged to pay a little or a reasonable period of time to pay a municipal contribution if then, only later, through the outflow of the credit and the funds with which we will continue to build, then subdue the obligations to local self-government so that local self-government is not forced to engage in judicial proceedings in order to collect the funds that belong to this law. And in the end, you seem to me at the end of your presentation today, also mentioned the profession which thanks to the laws that have been passed by one of the few that have been passed at the Employment Office very little lately, and I think that we can also count the members of my profession and it seems to me that we can be proud that as politicians we are contributing to the profession, although we are not in politics but in politics, and that this contribution to this profession, and to architects and geodetics, too, is to the full benefit of Croatia when we talk about spatial planning and state-building in the area that we have contributed to the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings where indeed your profession and my profession have found quite enough places to work. And although some of these laws dispute, it seems to me that they will still make a significant contribution to the arrangement of the territory in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51111	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the HNS club Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with fellow Members, dear colleagues and colleagues. Finally comment in a few sentences what could be heard today during the debate on this law. This law is one of those laws that I will allow myself freedom to assess goes in a different way than any previous law, which is that in this law, in criminal provisions, that part that provides for sanctions for inaction or failure covers all participants in the process. Few laws that have been written in Croatia have been touched by conjectures for the unconscious work of bureaucracy, for the unconscious work of those who have state authority. During today's debate, counterpart Maric asked who would be responsible if the facade was not installed I don't know the isolation of 8 but is installed from 5. It is very clear in this law who is responsible for what is responsible and, unlike many other laws in this law, all parties are called upon to responsibility with the stated very clear conjecture. Money fines, deprivement of the right to work. Not only are they responsible and not only are investors or performers responsible, but the supervisory engineers responsible for the quality of construction are also mentioned, the auditors responsible for knowingly doing their job. So, all the participants respond. They are clearly precise in this law of power and clearly specify the responsibilities. There have also been talks about that provision, which, since the entry into force of this law, will be built, provides for a time limit in which the facility must be fully completed, including both the facade and the environment. That's the thing that's prescribed for the general good and that's the thing that's basically prescribed to finally get us in line. Because only clearly defined and prescribed laws bring order into the system, and everything else opens the way to improvisation and self-will. Building a house without a facade is the same thing as building a car without a door and then waiting for you to fly out the open door into a ditch in the first turn. Building a house without a facade is the same thing as building a ship without a high-quality deck, so as much as you spend building that ship, I guarantee you that after 15 years that ship will be a wreck. Giving people the chance to work houses without a facade is actually doing them harm and giving them the opportunity to act irrationally. The communal contribution, the question of whether to charge it before the start of the construction or to charge it before the issue of a building permit, I think that according to my personal and our court in HNS, it is a completely missed matter. It is important that the municipal contribution be charged. It is important that the system is arranged and that it does not turn its head from the cases that happened in Sibenik that a particular entrepreneur built a huge facility for economic purposes without any paper and that a state-owned company signed a contract with the same entrepreneur for the same high-rent facility six years ago and that the facility did not have any papers at that time. This clearly normaled state cannot afford itself. And that is why we in the CNS believe that such precise written laws, which clearly determine both the powers and the responsibilities of all the participants in the process, contribute to the legal arrangement of this country and to bringing Croatian society into order. About what happened when making decisions at the local level, starting from fundamental law, the right of local self-government to have a certain autonomy in acting in the area of Sibenik-Knin County would be given a convenient essay. There were ideas, and I'm not even sure they weren't implemented, in which different tariffs were determined or different tariffs were to be determined between so-called so-called. Homemade and nutritious. So domestically in one constitutionally arranged state, they had to pay one tariff for the same facility and the same category, and the furets or newcomers who had just arrived and started building had to pay another tariff. There were descents not from 180 to 135, not 138, but 135, but there were descents from 135 to 15. And finally, when it comes to the collection of funds for the municipal contribution at the end, only when the facility is built then begins the obligation of the local self-government unit to bring in the municipal infrastructure. Therefore, whether it was paid before the start of the construction or at the building permit is important to charge. We'll support this bill and it's good that it's in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51113	Thank you, too. Finally on behalf of the Minister's proposal, please choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51114	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's really about me telling the basic laws that give us the instrument of regulation, of governance, of state in space. fixing the situation in the area with which we started to see the opportunities and discussions opened, so we started with the legalisation process, then we continued with the report on the situation in the space, the adoption of laws whose obligations were before Croatia's entry into the EU with this set of laws on spatial planning, the Law on Construction and the Law on Construction Inspection, but that's not the end. There are two other important and important laws that have been mentioned in one way or another in these discussions, namely the Act on Architecture and Engineering Activities and the Law on the Community Economy. With these laws, we will certainly come to this respected House early next year, and that job of fixing the situation in the area as far as we are concerned will be completed by the fact that when we come to this distinguished House with a strategy of spatial development and a new spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, this set of laws has an exceptional importance. At no time did we doubt or doubt that it would go in two readings if they had to go in two readings, they were worth enough for all of us to have a debate. As we've already had an opportunity and I told us we've been in the classic most classic public debate this whole spring. My colleagues are here with me, and it has already been said that last night was a stronger composition that there was indeed another colleague who was not presently available for a very simple reason. Today there is a large assembly of the Chamber of Electrical Engineers and a colleague is there to present the laws before the Chamber of Electrical Engineers. We have not only talked to the professional public but we have checked these laws from the thesis and with the complete public as it was said here, as I was saying in the introduction, there is no one among us who either did not build or at least had no desire to build, so he was interested. The law on spatial planning and the Construction Act is based on five essential elements. The first element is the public system. Already so loosely mentioned ISPU, ISPU is a public system. Any citizen of the Republic of Croatia can receive information at any time and see what is planned in the space. So the second element is the availability of information. I repeat once again as when we talk about real estate most important in real estate sites, locations, locations. In this business, the most important information is information, information, information. You must know from the beginning to the end of your procedures what and how it is planned and what is waiting for you on this road. There was also talk about red tape, there were also talk about people who work but really for any investment is the worst situation when investment is launched and when you tell someone at half the game that you're not playing sports dictionary football, but let's say it's a handball game, which happens to us that regardless of small, medium or large investment, every investment is an investment. Halfway across the street, you tell someone you've been joking and he thinks it's football, but it's actually handball or worse basketball. Clear procedure, clear procedure must be from beginning to end. I start by building my own house if I'm building my own garage, if I'm building a factory, I need to know what's waiting for me on that road. Jurisdiction, clearly defined jurisdiction. I suggest that once again when you leave the law or when the law is in front of you in the second reading, I warn you of the provision of Article 93. At the outset of the law in Article 4, we defined buildings in five groups, and in Article 93, we said who was in charge of issuing licences. And there was often mention of the authority, the authority of the city's municipality. We have now said in law for state facilities is a competent state but we have also given the opportunity to transfer the possibility of issuing permits to other cities and to the municipality alongside the county and large cities for a particular group. Group 4 and 5 are your garages, these are objects that have no special conditions but only the terms of accession and we gave you that possibility in law. Whether or not it depends on the ability and the equipment, but it is within the law. And I'll be back to finish the participants. The participants are an investor. The investor pays, the investor gives funds, an investor with funds opens his investment, an investor throughout the process at the end of the procedure by means of his means, regardless of whether he is building a garage, a family house or a factory, so he invests funds. The participants are projectors. The designers are architects and builders and electric engineers and engineers and geodetics. Participants are auditors who are once again really looking into the most complex situations. The participants are supervisory engineers, the participants are performers. And we're coming up with a responsibility. The responsibility of all of us who participate in this procedure. the investor's responsibility for the investment to bring her to an end. The designer's responsibility to design in accordance with the regulations. The responsibility of those who issue permits to issue permits in time. If they didn't betray, they should have betrayed, why didn't or betrayed what they weren't supposed to betray. Why did they betray you? Or betraying what they shouldn't have betrayed. Why they issued, so five basic topics are all these three laws and public systems, availability of information and clear procedures, jurisdiction and so many times mentioned responsibility. I'm really, I'm using this opportunity to thank you for the debate, it's good to discuss it, it's good to discuss it another time. Yesterday when I went to the Parliament this afternoon, then I met my colleagues on the stairs and I said, "Please read it all again." Now it's time to put things into the law that your colleagues can tell you is some kind of problem, that it's some kind of a failure. We don't do the laws for reasons why we can boast that we passed the law, so that we can say that the law is beautiful and beautiful. We're working the law for our citizens. And it is an obligation to really enable our citizens to get licenses quickly and easily and efficiently. Because if that's the way it's gonna be, then we certainly won't have and we won't have a debate on the 820 thousand demands. Because even for 820 thousand demands, there are a lot more buildings to hide. Legalization is mentioned on several occasions, I mention it very gently. For me personally, there's one thing that's actually the essential value of legalization. And the essential value of legalizing the awareness that real estate must have all the papers. We take great care when our bank card points out that it doesn't happen to us that we're one day without it, but we didn't exactly make sure that the real estate we have, that we're going to inherit or that we've already inherited has all the papers we need to have that we should have. We don't dare drive a car without proper papers, but if we have real estate and it's a serious property and it doesn't have the right papers, it's less disturbing. On the subject of legalization, I have indeed crossed the whole of Croatia on several occasions, and what is my basic value of legalization, the lady who is an aunt in kindergarten has stood up and she said, just to tell you, the children have been playing between four and five years old, they've been building apartments in the zoo and now one has said I'm building apartments for elephants, the other said I'm building for lions and this one said I'm building for giraffes and I'm legalizing myself. So the success of legalization is the awareness that what we have must have papers and we need to have arranged papers and this law and this set of laws will allow all of our citizens to come more easily to these papers in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51115	Thank you, too. The Ministers have two replicas. A colleague of Dinko Buric's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51116	Thank you, Madam Minister. Not entering now after such a long debate in the details of the bill itself has already been said in the name of the club. You've mentioned very well the importance of these regulations here when it comes to investments amongst others. And I'm going to give you a concrete example of how often bureaucratic as people say, obstacles can cause problems where they shouldn't be. In particular, I will give an example in our town of Belisto we have interested investors for not small investments in our terms of several tens of millions of euros that were the prerequisite for changes in spatial plans. And one of us, we did the procedure, everything's fine. And then, in the end, we almost came up with one problem that could stop the investment. And it was probably a discrepancy between the ministries, and I'm saying this in order to remove those obstacles later. There has been one guideline from your ministry since April, while you were Deputy Minister of 5 April 2012, which speaks of targeted changes and additions to spatial plans. When it comes to targets. In which it was literally said that when the changes were targeted, then it is not necessary to go into the width to make it simple for me to say it. And that guidance has kind of simplified the whole procedure. We're sticking to it, and we've approached your guidance with changes, targeted changes, so we've changed and... And then we got a negative answer from one of the institutions that she asked us to just make it look like it wasn't about targets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also have to thank them for their understanding because it has been removed, but it is likely that such problems will arise. So I would pray, perhaps it would be a good idea to send this guidance to all the interested institutions that are in the process of making these spatial plans, whether it's spatial or urban plans, so that we don't come into it anymore. We were lucky, so here we were able to solve it, but it's possible that such problems might happen in the future. So I suggest you freshen up again or maybe even update this leaflet of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51117	Thank you. Thank you, answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51118	Thank you very much for having the opportunity to respond to this, your remark, there are indeed a number of instructions that we had to give simply to facilitate the procedure. Yesterday afternoon we were in this distinguished House with the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and it was indeed a very constructive and good debate on what and how and how. And in this law there are elements in which to do so so that such cracks in the future will not be needed but will be able to apply the direct provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51119	Thank you, too. And the next replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, you said that the paper and improvement of this law in the part where cities that aren't big cities will get the opportunity to betray them, to have their offices, to issue certain permits for garages and similar things. I think it's an easy one, an improvement, yes, but I think it's also a slight discrimination because this article of Article 85(2) says that those who have those powers so far, and these are smaller cities than large cities, some will continue to do these jobs. So, in fact, these new cities that are about to enter one unequal position toward another. Perhaps you should consider a variant to allow cities and some relevant gravitating municipalities, if agreed, to take over the work of performing a building permit office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51121	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51122	So this suggestion, that is, this counsel today was quite impossible because the law clearly stated what and what jurisdiction it was. We've been there in certain arrangements with the Ministry of Administration, so all we can do in that sense is improve, make ourselves more flexible, and we'll be happy to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51123	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51124	Proposal for a Construction Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 467. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, it gives the following conclusion: - a proposal of the Construction Act is accepted - all objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 3 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51125	We continue with - Proposed law on construction inspection, first reading, PZ No. 468 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You've received reports. Is it on behalf of the proposer? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Now I have to take a deep breath, say, uh, and get started on a problem that we're all happy or reluctant to talk about, but our present is a construction inspection. It's not good when a construction inspection comes into your field, it's not good when it doesn't come and you're never sure what's good or not good. We have two inspections under the law: urban and construction. When, as I have already mentioned, last spring we set thee up, and in terms of what and how we want to have in the future, what kind of inspection we want to have, of course we have seen little of what problems we have, what problems these problems are, and to see how to create as we ourselves have opportunities and see, the procedures to be quick and clear, transparent, effective and really important to be all in the function of our citizens. We have decided that the urban inspection should not be done today, but the Ministry will have an extremely strong service to oversee the entire process of adopting spatial plans and, of course, on a spatial basis as an act. We've talked to very many municipalities and cities, experience with commissioners, mayors, heads of the office, little exchange of experiences, and a lot of them pointed to the fact that we have communal directors, they're on the ground every day, today these communal directors, when they see that something is being built there's no way to act except in certain cases, and it would be good to transfer some of the authority to these communal directors. So that we could even make a point and decide what to do, we went first to do an analysis, and we found that at the end of last year, we were looking for all the analysis and we found that, by the end of last year, we had 674 municipal directors. Then we went to the 674 communal directors to see what our professional preparation was, and of them 56 is high professional training, 103 more professional training, 509 medium professional training, and 6 are actually just with some qualifications. Of them is 100 construction professions. Then we went to see what this meant in relation to our 556 units of local self-government, municipalities and cities. Then we actually saw that out of 556 municipalities and materials 163 there is no municipal director, but there is a contract with another municipality so one municipal director works for two municipalities. And now we're going to see what that means in the county. Most municipal directors have Split-Dalmatia County 104, and then the City of Zagreb is 85 behind it, so Primorje-goranska is 62 and now I will not list it in order. But most of them are in Split-Dalmatia which, on the one hand, may not be surprising, they have 55 units of local self-government, but it's obviously also good teamwork. And then we went to see what these communal monks can do, I can do, and in all our surveillance procedures on the ground, let's make sure we do it right. When I was talking about the Construction Act, then I initially said there are two things that are as important to us as state, so to us that manages space. One thing is that the buildings and buildings that are being built are made in accordance with spatial planning documents, so with spatial plans, the other thing is quality of quality and appearance. So that's something we have to control. What does this procedure look like today? I like to tell stories for the simple reason that we all know what they're talking about. Today someone starts to work, build and inspector comes out, on the ground finds two kind of construction workers not to say like from some joke, then they ask him what he's doing, then he says they happened to be there, the malts aren't in the tourism, so there's something else they're doing, then which investor, he doesn't know what investor, I think that's the present. And then after about questioning some three, four months we establish ourselves as an investor, then a solution is issued, then that investor of course avoids getting that solution. Then somehow, somehow, we can get the investor to get that solution, then appeal procedures are re-emerged. It's been six months, and thank you for asking the house is I can really do it and say the house is under the roof, the investor is not still building. So that's what we have and what we all know we won't. I've really mentioned it on several occasions, and I'm using this opportunity to mention, for me, the collapse of the last variant. I'm an architect, I've been educated, and I've done my working life in a way that I can build, not crash. The demolition is the last, last version. But you're just sometimes not in a position but to use that last method and the most unpopular method. What have we decided in this Construction Inspectorate Act? We decided to share the authority of construction inspectors and communal directors. To give communal directors who are on the ground more powers than they have today in terms of supervision in terms of the issue of a solution. We decided that when the building inspector gets out on the field, I'm going back to that ISPU again. The ISPU when you look a little bit more closely, then there's this icon that says e-inspection. If this icon is the way it's supposed to be, and we do everything we can, then you'll see where the inspection was outside and you'll see which building, on which plot it's been controlled, made an insight and determined that something is not done in accordance with permission or without permission. What will the construction inspection do in the future? When it comes out on the ground or methods that are like this seem impossible but are absolutely possible when you have a condition then you can get the data, satellite every two to three months that happens. But let's just say that we're going by that old, common method, out on the ground, and it's found that someone is building on a space where we're not allowed to build, in the space where we've protected and said there's no building in that space. The inspection comes out to determine that this one builds, makes a solution. After eight days of doing so, he moves the property. The assumption is that in that case we move into the start-up phase of construction, in a phase of just foundation or basement, because it's about real estate, it's about building where a man can't get permission and can't build. When he comes out and finds out that he's building in places where it's possible to build, where it's possible to get a permit, but here's the thing that really pisses him off on time, the inspection will come out on the ground and find that someone's building without a license. It will not collapse, it will give a period within which a licence is to be issued and there will be fines prescribed by one other law which, depending on the natural person, may be up to two average gross salaries per month. That's about your gross salary at this hour somewhere around seven and a half thousand. So, monthly up to 15000, and compared to the legal person, it's up to 10 gross wages. So, a month's significantly higher amount and then it'll come out one time, so this one won't have permission, he'll pay the fine, and then another time, and then the final sanction after he really doesn't want the license to be removed. But that's the last, last, last sanctions. So the important difference is someone who's building on a space where there's no way to get permission to remove it right away, and not wait for the house to be under the roof and put out of these previous stories of facades. And those who can get permission. The communal directors will have the possibility of acting on other procedures. We say it along the fences, along the halls have the possibility of action on a private plot. We are tasked with the following: the full work of municipal directors will be monitored, we will monitor solutions, we will monitor not only in the formal part, but also in the informal part, in the part that is in relation to education, compared to monitoring work, compared to seeing what is happening and thus actually having a uniform practice in the field of Croatia. Maybe I didn't make myself clear enough or maybe I should do it again and say it again. One of the important things about these laws is that the same way licenses are issued in Zadar, Petrinja, Osijek. In the same way, a building inspector should act in these areas, in the same way solutions should be issued. We do have a case today that according to one methodology, one office, another office, third office. So, even the practice and even the way it works. The same way when you read the Construction Inspectorate Act you would... construction inspection controls the quality of construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we in this story with illegal construction actually focused on whether someone has a license or not, whether they're building a permit or not. When I started working there long ago in this section of management, then they were building inspectors whose assignment was to go to the construction site, to control the certificates that they needed, the declarations they needed back then. They were paraphrasing when someone cut out at the start of the building, paraphrasing that it was done properly. So they followed the construction process. The construction process should be monitored not only for the present but also for the future, because we are obliged to build according to all the laws, all the rules so that buildings of adequate values are built then some other values are left for the future. And there's one topic that's in the Law on Building Inspection that appears here I'd say in every law we've got some newspaper, so we've decided on a newspaper in addition to this newspaper, so we've decided on a newspaper, and it's tied to the ruins. There are a lot of mayors, a lot of mayors or deputies among you, everyone in their place, in their town, in their municipality, regardless of whether they're by the coast, so these ruins are because people have moved away and are no longer taking care of their property. In the City of Zagreb you have really parts of the city that are abandoned and where the drug problems are without talking about parts of the country that have the trauma of war destruction where the houses are left in a state where they're very dangerous if I don't say something like this, a jeep is threatening to actually collapse itself. This law defines what a ruin is. Of course, the ruins can't be culturally good. As soon as it's culturally good, it's absolutely off. And the possibility of a solution is given. The way in which this solution is brought and the possibility that municipal monks, or municipalities and cities themselves, are removing the ruins and thus actually moving from the space of what is their burden, and one day when the owner will come, he will sign on with that burden with a certain fee. So this whole set of laws is about the problem of spatial planning, it's about the problem of building. He does not leave any of us indifferent because each of us, on his own example or example, faced a problem. We're all aware that during this period, a long period of time, so it doesn't last five or ten years, but it takes a lot longer, and some things that we shouldn't have happened in space. We think it's still possible to control it. I'm taking this opportunity to say something I forgot to say. There, on several occasions, was mentioned on February 15th, '68. Indeed, we base our legislation on the date of the video by February 15, '68. In the state-of-the-art process, we've determined that we don't have all the cards. We've determined that we have a small part of the country with cards, and an inadmissible area without cards. Then of course we know everything and we knew that these maps were located not only in our country but in the area, so they are owned by a military Geographical Institute in Belgrade. We've done all the diplomatic activity and everything else we've done to establish contact. Then let me tell our story that it turns out that these cards have nothing to scan for, and then we got scanners, so we got those scanners one in Macedonia, one in Montenegro, two in Slovenia. So we got them there, and then they said we'd give the scanners, just do them, because we need tickets, too. Mostly all that story was on the line every day and very good contacts and absolutely good will. We've got about 3300 catastrian municipalities somewhere, we've got for more than half a ticket we've got them. Some cards are in good shape, some cards aren't very good, but we're now georeticating them. At the time when all this is finished and defined, we will announce what on our web portal to deliver to all our monasteries. So it remained one debt from one there was on several occasions on February 15th, '68. the years mentioned. But why does it matter? It is also important in relation to the conduct of a construction inspection because in all laws and in this law everything that has been done until 15 February '68. the year is considered legal and there is no jurisdiction anymore then or the conduct of a construction inspection. So these maps are extremely important, extremely important for building inspection as well. And here's only for the end, no matter what the construction inspection is, I have to say that sentence, when they first came in, I was very interested in it, as I was curious about nature, and then I saw one without knowing exactly what location it was. And there's one thing that got me caught up in it, which is that that map showed a neat settlement and a surrounding area and the surrounding area was a farmland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51127	Thank you, too. We have reports of replicas. The first one was Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51128	Thank you very much. So here are the communal directors and the jobs that should be taken over were already speeches and in the previous debate on the previous law, and I personally think it shouldn't be bad and that it could definitely contribute to a better order. But what is certainly not very good, and what should be better done is in fact one overload of municipal directors because when you presented data on the number of municipal directors in certain counties, then it is seen that it is one disproportionate and sure that we cannot look at Croatia in such a general sense globally and thus assign the number of directors per unit of local self-government because there are not many directors in some units of local self-government, and in some units local self-governments have already taken over the role of traffic directors and have already received a certain part of the work that they did not have before. That's what I'm saying here on a concrete example in my town in the Cross. So it's just a case with me, and it's likely in many other cities that the existing two directors who are and traffic directors simply won't be able to act physically and they won't get to do these jobs and there's gonna be a problem. At the same time, we see that the urban inspection to say so is being taken over by the employee ministry while the construction inspection remains. It means that in nature, the number of people working on it will increase. And you really should see that if local self-government takes over some of the jobs from the inspection work now, that really one part of the funds is being transferred to local self-government, it's going to have to be decentralised because there's going to be a new employment of municipal directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51129	Thank you. Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51130	Thank you very much. So when I was talking about the number of communal directors, why was I talking? In order to make a decision at all in order to really transfer a part of the business to the communal directors, we had to do an analysis and see what we had on the ground if such a decision was possible at all. So as you can see from the bill, we've decided to do it, and there are really some problems that are serious about local self-government of financial nature, and we can see that the solutions that they're going to make and the charge that we're going to see are going to the funds where local self-government is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51131	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51132	Dear Minister, on a good example, you have denied when they say that the opposition only deals with politics in the House that it can only be criticised and that what you are and this exposure and before the presentation, we know when ministers speak to us who are full of knowledge and who answer questions. We can agree with the answers or disagree but certainly appreciate what you do here today and even part of those discussions we thought we understood from your presentation, you gave us advance answers to some questions that are rare in the assembly, and it is rarely heard from my mouth. But you're not the only one, let's just say when there was a set of Mr. Milenić's laws before Lex Prkovic, now we're going to watch it quadruple glasses and I'm going to put one more glasses on when I suggest something before Lex Perkovic we unanimously in the Parliament even had the debate almost destroyed and I don't think anyone was against those laws we single-handedly accepted those laws. So these questions you've given answers to before we've asked because it's not a single, united debate, and these are the communal order that people rightly suspect is determined. You've told us the condition that some of us better know and how we should be. Now the law is that means to enable what should be. I again warn of one thing, don't forget our mentality, our services, and that we and the most wonderful ideas are ready to make fun of the mockery.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51133	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51134	Thank you very much. Well, Reverend Minister, here I am going to add these two replicas to Mr. Horg's replica in fact, as far as the communal directors are concerned. I get the feeling they're becoming a hook for everyone in that local self-government. We've already imposed their obligations on them during this government. We heard the traffic section, they had to go to school. So through the Noise or Noise Act, we again made a commitment to the entire summer from 1.5th to 1.10th of the year, running through our tourist destinations, to record those who are loud, noisy, and looking at this bill, I think that this communal director who, fortunately, was working without a problem would be able to fill his 24-hour working hours if the state would act in this way. And it writes nicely in this section whether it is necessary to secure the funds means an assessment of the resources needed to implement the law is not necessary to ensure in the state budget anything. So local self-government actually got the i.e. Communal directors still got one job they should do for free. He won't want to do it because he's doing perfectly well for his 3.5, 4,000 kuna what he already has in power and this will be just above it. That's why I say this statistic great, she's okay she recorded the state, theory is also great, but I'm afraid in practice we're going to fall on the exam just on this proposal if the state doesn't want to pay for it, and I think it should pay if it's in her interest to bring the situation into order. If we haven't been there since 2000, we've had an action called citizens organised monitoring elections. Here are some citizens who are then organised to oversee illegal construction, but we offer them financial compensation for it, so who reported it and reported the case to be well rewarded by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51135	Thank you. The next replica here we have the answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51136	Yes, indeed, communal directors get more work than they have now. We have two options and two variants, so there are always two variants. One variant to say don't need communal monks to do it can be done by construction inspectors who do it today, and another variant is which can be defined in this law, which is that you see criminal provisions that these fines that are monetary and which communal directors pay go into the budget of units of local self-government and be... or they increase wages or employ new ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51137	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Minister and I liked this picturesque display of your actions in relation to certain moments, and it is absolutely acceptable for me to have this icon clicked even if the millin house grows. But what I'm trying to say is that something's confusing me a little, which is when you say it says today if someone starts building, and I ask who, who builds it. In my midst, Madam Minister, I don't know for the last year and a half that anyone's been building, that anyone's been working, that anyone's building works and people are fighting for a naked existence. It can't, it doesn't work, it doesn't build. It's just circumstances, 35% of poor people live in catastrophic conditions. I agree with you that you need to ensure people's obligations, bring citizens in, secure fast construction, absolutely agree, but I'm asking what, what and how. And then we go back to what we had yesterday about energy and environmentally acceptable vehicles. We'll soon have very good environmental conditions because people don't have to drive with what, they don't have tractors to fix, etc., they have nothing to build with here. As a result, these inspectors and communal directors are at stake. I'm gonna have to fire my communal director, I'm responsible for that. First, there's no building anything, second of all these traffic obligations that have been to regulate what if someone brings manure off the road, there's no more, so he has no more to do. In these circumstances, I believe that these laws are good intentions, all that stands well, but I think in practice it's a little harder to operate, Madam Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51139	Thank you, too. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51140	Well, really, our experience is that we like to build, we love to build without permission, it's our special pleasure, so I'm just using this opportunity to tell a story that was this spring. The inspector was, our inspectors were in the field, they were tearing down houses that were built after 21.6/11, there was a word somewhere around 20 constructions started, finished the story and left. That when they went away they all figured out we weren't going to come back, let's build on, and then after a month they went back to the same area or two months and found 20 new constructions. So much for that, so we like to build hard and we're a little nervous about getting our licenses out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51141	Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51142	Your Honor, Madam Minister, there is only one thing I would like from your presentation that I think is particularly important here. I find it a good solution to give greater authority to the communal directors. The fact is that the communal monks, regardless of what it will be in practice, are probably problems that we can't predict right now, but the fact is that the communal directors became people that no one is afraid of, who had no authority, who were only most of them, I would say that I would have fulfilled the obligation of the local self-government unit to have a communal director, and that he was in practice unable to take any measure to solve any problem. The proposed solutions are not likely to cover everything, but they are a step forward and will need to be followed well during the implementation of the law in which they are headed and how to improve this. So there will be opportunities in the debate on this bill to give further suggestions, I hope that some will be accepted to change something, but one of the key points of this law is to give greater authority to the communal directors, and I think it is to units of local self-government and to solve the problem locally of great importance. I agree with my colleague Milinkovic and in the part he said, we have problems in Croatia today and with who will build, but she is right and the minister when she says there are also those who like to build. And you fellow Milinkovic, when you mentioned it, then you could have said the same vividly that it reminds you of that sad joke, our patient comes to a doctor and says you're going to live another six months, and the patient says but of what, Doctor, of what. So he's not worried about the situation, he's worried about the economic situation. But it's just paraphrasing all of this. I believe that the bill that regulates this way is positive and will have a positive effect in our area in all units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51143	Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, you were talking about the ruins, removing the ruins. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. How are you going to do it in practice? So the owners of these facilities are mostly outside the Republic of Croatia, under number one, you have no outstanding property-legal relations, who will come to you to remove these objects and how the one who removes such a ruin will be charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51145	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51146	To answer immediately so we don't forget so that it doesn't remain irresponsible, so the burden on the grant excerpt and the turret, as it is now. The state's attorney's office is putting a burden on whoever's in the garter. ... The moment someone shows up or anything, they'll get rid of it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51147	Thank you. Do the representatives of the board want to take the floor? Here's my colleague Ronko, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51148	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As I had already said twice before, we held a session on October 1st, it was the 22nd session and the basis of Article 93. We held the Rules of Procedure as a parent working body, and in the opening presentation we united the debate on all three legislative proposals. The Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction has therefore joined the creation of these proposed legal texts governing the area of construction and, instead of the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, it is proposed that this area be regulated by three laws. The law on construction inspection as presented to us on the board is adopted for the purpose of improving and quality of the arrangement of a valid system and ensuring more effective control of the state of construction. It is therefore proposed to increase the effectiveness of control of the situation in the area by giving authority to local self-government authorities responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy. Therefore, they carry out supervision of construction of buildings for which no building permit has been issued and the procedure in case of illicit construction is simplified. As regards illegal construction within the building areas, we are presented to propose the possibility of issuing a crash solution with the possibility of delaying the permit for construction and, in the event of refusal of the possibility of leaving, it is possible to collapse the built object within 2 weeks. In the domain of the construction inspection, the authorisation remains to determine the legality of the construction, use and maintenance of buildings and to carry out expert supervision of the construction and supervision of measures to comply with the laws, other regulations and rules of the profession. There is also a process of construction and quality of construction, i.e. the use of materials for construction. And this norm is actually a very sensitive area, given the regulations on construction materials that the EU has brought and which should be fully respected. In the debate that followed, and there were representatives of Green Action, representatives of the Association of Architects, Mr. Kartalić, in the debate that followed, the question was raised, i.e. the question, with the competence of the communal directors for the professional performance of the business based on this proposal, or the implementation of measures in the context of the conduct of the communal director, and the answer resulted in the fact that the communal directors that it is being heard and just before 674, according to the bill, are given greater power and greater scope of affairs, and thus is expected to be more operational and more successful. As one of the problems of this legislative proposal, it has also been pointed out that budgets are not foreseen for the implementation of the law without which it is said that the successful implementation of the prevention of the occurrence of illegal construction should not be expected. Articles 11 to 25 governing the exercise of inspection and the conduct of inspectors raises the question of the relevance of the decision and, in the case of the inequality of the decision taken by the supervisory engineer and the building inspector relating to the quality of the built-in material in buildings, of course, the question arises whether the inspector has the right to close the construction site in such a case. It has been assessed that the text of the proposed law gives more authority to the building inspector than to the supervisory engineer, although he is a member of the professional chamber, has the right to use the seal with powers, and the seal means or implies permanent education and training during work until the inspectors of the ministry do so and in some ways do not have to do so. Here is so much from the debate, and after the discussion was held, the Committee on the Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly decided by a majority, 6 for, 2 for and 1 abstention to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion: - a proposal for a Law on Construction Inspection and, of course, all the objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate are addressed to the Proposer for the final preparation of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51149	Thank you, too. On behalf of the other committees, does anyone want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a club debate. On behalf of SDP Representatives' Club Zdravko Ronko. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51150	Thank you very much. I'll keep going right now. So, as we have already said in the previous two proposals of the Law on Spatial Planning and the Proposal for a Construction Act, we have stressed that the still applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction is in some way unsightly, largely unsettled because of its scope and unsettlingness, and therefore it was proposed to divide into three parts, i.e. the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction and the Law on Construction Inspection. The biggest newspaper in this proposal is that the proposed Inspection Act increases the effectiveness of control over the situation in the area by giving authority to exercise supervision over construction of buildings for which no building permit is issued and for simple procedures to the local self-government unit authorities responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy. And that's the fundamental intensity of the law, so that part of the ingenuity is passed on to the communal offices. We support this provision as well as other proposed solutions especially for the ruins where it is now truly defined as determining what the ruins and the procedure for making a solution based on which municipal directors can and can remove that building. It is also an acceptable model of the work of a building inspector in an area where construction is not allowed and where the inspector brings about a solution that collapses within eight days. And that where construction and construction are allowed without permission is given the possibility of obtaining a permit with a fine and such an option is given twice. But if there is no permit after that, the building continues to collapse. What does that mean? It's very simple where building is allowed to collapse is the last variant, where it's not the only option. It is also precisely for the reasons of speeding up the procedure but also for the responsibility of the inspector in the course of the inspection procedure that an acceptable solution or better said is acceptable and a solution to the abolition of the right of appeal to an inspection solution and the regulation of legal protection by the Institute of the Court of First Instance. In the end and the fine itself and their proposed purpose 20% for the offices of county and cities, 30% for municipal equipment of cities and counties and 50% for the state is not a bad model only maybe the figures should be little done because the state is still receiving VAT from architects and geodesys, and local self-government units do not participate 1%. However, the SDP Representatives' Club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51151	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDZ Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Ministers with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is the third law proposed by the Government of the Law on Construction Control. If the government seemed to me and could somehow convince us of the reasons why it separates construction from planning, it seems to me that this law is somehow then logically this Law on Construction Inspection should logically be in the Construction Act but a clear attitude and it is the right government to make legal legislation the way she thinks it is best. It seems to me that the fundamental reason for the adoption of this law is in a certain way to bring down certain powers from the state level mainly from the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and their officers inspectors to the units of local self-government or communal offices. I have to say that this is clearly legitimate even though the formulation that is entered in the evaluation of the existing situation is a little clumsy. There, if I'm not quoting now, I haven't taken the law with me, there's talk about it in view of the unpopularity and unattractive interest of the building inspector often times neither architects nor builders want to go into inspectors, and then we'll leave it to the communal directors. I'd paraphrase that no one's going to the sailors, no one's going to the building inspectors, so let's leave it to the communal directors in local self-government units. So what I'm saying is, are we doing this because we don't have enough inspectors because it's here as it says in the explanation of the request for unpopular interest, unattractive interest, and then when we don't have others because we don't have enough inspectors to leave it to local self-government units. But it seems to me that it's a little bit in a certain way and contrary to what we were saying yesterday and this morning. Yesterday and this morning, we disbursed local self-government units when it came to their powers in spatial planning and construction. We've given them certain powers when it comes to urban planning, which we've now given to the county and the government has taken for themselves objects and projects of national importance. They are neither a party to the process when construction permits are issued on their premises, but now when it comes to the costs of new obligations and then the units of local self-government are a reliable shareholder in such a business. So on the one hand, we centralize powers and take them from local self-government units, but in this case, at least I don't see it from the law. We're not going to give them for the jobs that municipal directors are doing now to local self-government units for the costs that local self-government units are going to have when it comes to the work of communal directors. It is quite certain from what the municipal directors will do that they are in a certain way slowly becoming a kind of construction police for less and less complex works in which they will edit. A colleague of the Box with the right of Madam Minister asked, and you know it very well, especially in the area of the Adriatic Croatia and everywhere where the catastrian municipalities of their catastrian operatives are based on the measurement of Franjo Josip, how unregulated the land book or grantovnica is, as much as on certain parcels are listed on a hundred and more natural persons who have long died or died in overseas countries, often on a plot of 6 to 8 squares is recorded over 200 and 300 in the rule of emigrants or dead persons, etc. And precisely on these facilities because these families are displaced around the world are especially to say down in southern Croatia many abandoned places, numerous ruins that have remained after them and these ruins today need to be removed and this law prescribes it and it is given in the jurisdiction of the communal director. I don't know how you said there would be a record of such a property that over a hundred registered landowners, when it would be a unit of local self-government that would have to remove such a ruin at its expense, when it would be charged I really don't know. And I have to tell you that if they're officials, and they're going to have to, because it's the law, they're going to act in cases like this, that's going to be an added cost to local self-government units. And otherwise, the question arises of this financing of these jobs that we've given to the construction inspection with this Act. At the same time you prescribed a sentence for the lack of external appearance of the building, the fine of Article 59 seems to me. This fine whose income, is that the income of the state, is that the income of the state budget? So when a municipal director prescribes a fine, is it the revenue of the state budget or the income of the municipal budget? I don't have to admit it, I haven't read it so carefully, but I haven't read it when it's issuing mandates for the municipal director whether it's then the income of the state budget or the income of the municipal budget, the budget of the unit of local self-government. So there are a lot of doubts and great challenges that you have to address, I think, to another reading. And you should have, too, if we went into a system like this, then in a certain way in dealing with a communal director with a construction inspector bar in a section where the right to appeal is spoken of. The right to appeal does not exist in the conduct of the building inspector, but the right to appeal exists in the conduct of the communal director. I think that both actions should have been evened out, should have treated one and the other when it comes to the behaviour of the building inspector and the communal director. It is also selective in the event of order to remove buildings built outside the building area or in a specially protected area, that the execution by means of a third party is ordered, and in other cases the execution is forced by fines and the enforcement by a third party is not resolved. So for sanctioning illegal construction, it's not the same offence for investors. I think there's also an inequality in the approach here. Furthermore, in the case-law of the construction inspection procedure so far, it has often been very doubtful whether it is possible to order the removal of a building whose construction is not in line with the documentation in the day of the inspection solution and without compensation to the investor. So it seems to me that we also need to be very careful here, whether it is possible to remove the building because it has not been brought into line with the documentation and if it is not done within the prescribed time limit, whether immediate access to such a building from the aspect of property protection is legal until the end of the law. I know that this court and administrative practice has often made such solutions that such a provision in law could be controversial. And one more thing I also want to say, we are with this law dealing with the issue of the organisation of a construction inspection, until this law solves the issue of jurisdiction and definition of urban inspection. Employees carrying out urban inspection tasks are now becoming clear, will likely be deployed to other jobs in the ministry, but the procedures conducted by urban inspectors under this law are being suspended. Is that a good solution? I don't know. They certainly acted on reports when certain spatial planning documentation was not drawn up in accordance with the law when certain doubts existed that some plans were not made properly and there were urban inspectors in the process, and now we are suspending this law. What is the fate of these plans, which there is an open suspicion that they are not built with higher labour plans, or according to the law? This law also does not resolve this, because you have written that the procedures implemented under the so far applicable Law on spatial planning and construction carried out by urban inspection are being suspended. I think it is not a good solution, that those procedures that have been initiated under the applicable law, in which the procedure for determining the validity of certain spatial and design documents is open that should have been suspended under this law and under this law which has been passed and the laws that we have discussed over the past two days will then be acted upon when they are adopted in law and if adopted in this way. Here I will end up with the fact that it seems to me that the Government is here in that part of it unworthy when the units of local self-government are abolishing the powers that they had under the existing laws in the section relating to the regulation of spatial-planning documentation throughout their territory that now this Law on Spatial Planning and Construction was given to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to solve their own..., that it is given to the counties to solve urban planning of the counties, that in this way we do not give great faith to the units of local self-government when it comes to spatial order but we give them faith when in these works unpopular as the conduct of construction inspectors then we believe that for the sake of the state and business that the state has done so far they will know it. And since it is very important, we will not provide them with financial resources, local self-government units, for such actions, and even when they impose the mandated penalties, the revenue is the state budget, not the budget of the unit of local self-government. I think these are questions, Madam Minister, with good wishes and the will to stop fast, energetic, effective, illegal construction. That now the digital orthophoto map since 21 June 2011 has helped us a lot, as well as building inspectors, to determine whether further illegal construction took place after that day. It is certainly a document that will help building inspectors but we still have to stop this illegal construction. I hope you will be helped by municipal officers who are employed in local self-government units, but these issues of unequal relations in the conduct of the municipal director and building inspector are not good. It's not a good unequal approach to removing buildings at the expense of a third party. It depends when the building is built in a protected coastal area or outside the building area and at another location. We're also incredible here. So there are these questions that you need to make at least in a legal sense equalized in both security areas if you can say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51153	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51154	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić agrees fully with your debate and this story with the communal directors is simply missed for me knowing everything I've learned so far about their experiences. And that's another proof that the Ministry's office can't feel any or specific life on the ground. And these people are really daily in very unpleasant or awkward situations not only in the matter of forgiveness, the problems they have only on public areas where the municipality has jurisdiction or issue those concession approvals during the season only in the coastal part, and we have heard where there are the most communal directors. There are them in Split-Dalmatia, there are them in Primorje-Gorski, not to count the City of Zagreb, Istria. And there's them because that's the problem. We have a lot of traffic problems. There's a lot of parking, lots of cars in the season. We have a fact that many who get concession approvals don't respect those same and do something that they can't do. Then we gave them the obligation to take care of the Noise Act, so they're up all night with the police because the state doesn't want to deal with these sensitive things anymore. These are the things that concern local self-government. And then we write, for example, Article 51, they have the right to order these measures, remove the ruins, remove the building, remove the frontal damage, coordinate the procedure in space, remove the procedure in space. Well, it's not even a building inspector, it's a real-school building inspector. Who are our communal directors? There's a driver in my community. And he managed to solve all these traffic parts that he had to and could as far as the public surfaces are concerned. For this, I think it takes some knowledge. For writing records he's no longer in the field he's not a communal director, he becomes a clerk in the office. If he's going to write one quality record that he's going to spend this. So practice will be inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51155	We have an answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Boric said that you were in an earlier replica and had now reiterated that the municipal directors under the law every day receive a growing job and units of local self-government because of this they do not have additional income, which already burdens the poor state of the budget of the local self-government units. Although the word communal officer himself suggests that he should work on a commune, on communal grounds, he is now working on the basis of the Law on the Communist Economy, that is, the decision on the municipal order of local self-government units and on private parcels orders removals when individual wrecks, construction kicks, etc. are located on these parcels, in private parcels, and it is now based on a decision on communal order and private ownership, not only on the commune. I would agree with this approach if by lowering power from state level to a local self-government unit that ministry could calculate in a financial sense what it would mean. It is clear that it is not easy to determine the amount of funds it is, but since one other law limits how much funds in local self-government can be allocated for wages compared to the original incomes of the local self-government unit, there is no room for new employment or because there is no funds and because the amount of wages that can be spent in the local self-government unit is limited. So the municipalities here can't hire anyone new we don't have any money and they're given new powers and they have to act on it and the incomes are the income of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51157	Thank you. And the next replica Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51158	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague Bačić in the end about the distribution of powers and responsibilities of municipal directors and building inspectors. It should be noted that construction inspectors are largely responsible for the state of construction. It should also be said that there are not enough of them, that they are not paid enough, but that they have enormous powers that they did not use in most cases. Now, I don't think they should be called communal directors if they're going to do what they're going to do, as foreseen by the law. Well, the communal director can't rank as a building inspector. The law does not specify which conditions must be met by the communal director from professional training. If the certification person has just spoken in the Construction Act, it must meet certain conditions and what authority it will be given to have professional training, work experience, how it is given here to a communal director who performs entirely other tasks at a much lower level than these are both professional and responsible, and there are no specific conditions. I think the powers have been decentralised and the funds have not been decentralised in how to enable and finance such a project. It is the easiest thing to decentralise powers and continue to leave centralised resources. It doesn't even fit the name community director for what's supposed to work with this law. And we should have a much greater preparation and professional and working experience and certain professional exams at least in the rank of a construction technician, not... a communal director who cares about dirt and eats some honest burden on the road or about removing some unnecessary things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51159	Time. Thank you. We have a colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're right, colleague Maric. This project the ministry decided on was legitimate and I think we could also support it if other aspects of such a law were solved, and that was prescribed what should be done by a communal director who should be trained in preparation. I agree with you, you're absolutely right. It is not appropriate now for a person to do this work at the level of local self - administration and to call a communal director when he performs the work of a construction inspector at local level. I think it is clear to everyone that it would now be good for the ministry to consider how and in what way to determine and call the communal director, but what is also important is how the funds to the local self-government unit for this job provide in what way, clearly to introduce additional burdens and mandates that such a building inspector of the local level will write and prescribe and inform them to be then and the income of the body in which he is employed. That's what I think, perhaps, in this way, we might be able to further strengthen this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51161	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51162	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with deputies and assistants, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a basic regulation governing the conduct of construction inspection in the Republic of Croatia. It has so far been based on the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which prescribes the implementation, conditions, powers and measures to carry out inspection supervision and obliges the participants in the construction and the parties to the inspection procedure. The foundation of this part of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning has led to the creation of a draft proposal for a new Law on Spatial Planning and a new Law on Construction, which each in its section is governed by the area of spatial planning or construction, instead of the current law on spatial planning and construction. For this reason, it is necessary to regulate and coordinate the conduct and implementation of inspection supervision of construction because it has so far been governed by the applicable law, which will now cease to be effective by the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction, and therefore it is necessary to adopt the Law on Construction Inspection. The construction inspection law shall be adopted in order to improve and improve the quality of the system in force and ensure more effective control of the state of construction. The construction inspection shall have the authority and authority to determine the legality of construction, use, maintenance of buildings and to carry out expert supervision of construction, as well as to monitor measures to comply with the laws of other regulations and rules of the profession. The proposed law lays down the following questions. First of all, the structure of the construction inspection is defined as a building inspection as an internal structure of the unit of the ministry and as a department for inspection tasks that has district offices in Zagreb and Split, as well as a regional unit in county headquarters. The following questions are also defined, in particular, by carrying out inspection work on construction, use and maintenance of buildings and the implementation of expert construction supervision. It also controls the construction and implementation of procedures in the area which are not built for the purpose of protecting public interest in the implementation of laws and other regulations establishing the administrative areas of construction and spatial planning, and also identifying issues in the professional process is the construction process and the quality of construction or use of building materials. This standard is particularly a sensitive area, given the rules on building materials that the EU has brought and which should be fully respected. Where there are essentially all the competences of an inspector there are not too many dilemmas or too many questions in my opinion. The question again is whether inspectors and inspectors arrive at all that is within their jurisdiction to carry out. The question is whether it is able to write first of all all all all those criminal provisions that have been defined, whether it can find an investor of illegal construction within the building zone, write that it is collapsing or passing the permits, if it is outside the building zone to determine that within eight days it is removed. The question is also that... damage to the front, roofs and many other things in your jurisdiction. When we define that there are 125 building inspectors in Croatia, and in total so far when we have analyzed more than 60 thousand applications since 2009 it is at an annual level of about 6 thousand applications, and when we look at an average of 6 thousand for the start of construction and some 6 thousand for transport for the removal of illegal construction. And now there's an interesting question about whether or not we're going to hire new building inspectors, and we've heard it's not a very big push for the job itself, so I guess there's more reason. We immediately know that the building inspector is guilty of anything he does. If he didn't do what he did in his duty, he's guilty of that part, if he did, of course, then everyone condemns him for punishing him here first and foremost, the poor people, the poor man, and he needs to see what and how to do most recently in that part. Well, the solution in this bill is one thing: it is proposed that by giving authority to the administrative authorities of the unit to the local self-government, primarily the authorities of the... economy. So this new construction inspection law introduces newspapers with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of control over the situation in the area under which supervision of construction of buildings for which no building permit is issued, i.e. the main project is taken over by the administrative body of the local self-government unit and responsible for the activities of the municipal economy in which the area is built. That's what we can say,... would be communal monks. It would also exercise control over the removal of ruins, the removal of damage to the existing building, the implementation of procedures in an area other than construction, other than mining works and buildings, the completion of a building with regard to the appearance and arrangement of a building particle and the implementation of building ban decisions that a representative body, as a unit of local self-government, makes under a special law, of course by means of a solution governed by the municipal economy. And now, as was the question about part of the building inspector, whether or not the communal directors need it, whether or not they will arrive and are primarily qualified. I as mayor can say here with many experiences that municipal directors in these parts will greatly increase the size of jobs because we really have to say the municipal director on his back is wearing a really large part of the municipally arranged part of the basis of the Law on the Communist Economy. And most often we have one or two communal directors within the unit of local and regional self-government. It's also about the practicality of it, because then if you hire more of them, and you need them, then we're the mayors and the mayors because we're increasing the number of employees in local administration units, we're increasing costs and other things. On the other hand, the same thing that applies to inspections and within their own ingenuities also they, if they don't do something of course, are guilty to the citizens, and I know from experience if they do something then those first neighbors and citizens also want their justice. I have an example that when we were getting a communal director uniform, then a little bit of a joke said that uniform must contain a target on the back to make it easier to hit when someone comes in. Indeed, it is really not easy, and in that part we must keep an eye on it. But when we talk about the ability of the communal director for professional training on the basis of this proposal, I believe that the communal directors are qualified for that part of responsibility. Above all, here is this information that we received from the minister that has 674 communal directors, of which we only have about a hundred people who are building professions, which is mostly this profession which is very much the most suitable for municipal redistribution, but all of them by law must have state expert exams, and until you finish and until you prove yourself on all these jobs then there is a certain certificate of expertise for doing these jobs. Of course, it should work and be further educated, trained, and then it must move not only on to the authority of us in the units of local self-government but even the county, and especially there needs support and ministries. We have a situation here that really certain municipalities and cities, municipalities mostly, and they don't have municipal redistribution. These are the municipalities they have, above 3,000 people, they have little budgets, they do not have the means to hire a municipal director, and at the same time it is very difficult to find a professional person in their area who wants to deal with it in some way. When we talk about inspectors and communal directors, they're related to coefficients based on civil servants and these coefficients are 0.95, 0.98, 1. and when you're looking at the base, it's not even any motivation of what you're telling me today to do this kind of work. Yes, there are also in law the possibility that more local self-government can use one director in that part. Here I can... my example, the town of Lepoglav and the municipality of Bednja, we have such an employee of a communal director just for that part of doing business. Of course, what is also said, units of local self-government according to positive regulations should not only have a communal director but should have a director who would edit the state of transport, which would also edit the situation in agriculture although we also have agricultural inspectors here as well as construction here. But let's be realistic in that part and fair to ourselves, we have to do it because any development, the basis means local self-government doesn't have if we don't have an orderly state in space. If we know what we have then we can see what capital that is, what resources we have that we can include them in some kind of development component of our city. If we're not going to do it or in any part of it, to make a situation in space, then we made a joke that we could introduce a third category in that part, which is bad neighbors. They and the records of the inspection report are the ones who have the most application and who solve problems the most. And there's a suggestion that we really need communal directors, professional, trained but of course we really need to finance it. Let us propose that, indeed, all the misdemeanor measures carried out by the communal director should be the incomes of the local self-government unit. Of course, that should be brought into line with the Ministry of Finance in this part. And that would be good, and that would be a means. What is coming from this side can only be used for the education and work of municipal order, i.e. to raise the municipal standard in a specific area of the city or municipality. I would like, above all, to point out once again what the results are, or the consequences of this law. I would like to point out once again these expectations are that the measures proposed under this Construction Inspectorate Act will result in an increase in the efficiency of control over conditions in space, by giving authority to exercise control over construction of buildings for which no building permit is issued to local self-government authorities in charge of the affairs of the municipal economy. I would also mention this, however, to speed up the process in a way that abolishs the right of appeal to an inspection solution and the rights are prescribed, the legal protection of the Institute of Appeal by the first instance of the Administrative Court. And another thing I have not heard is that it has been mentioned but that the provisions of this law, which is prescribed in Article 24, are that there will be a web site on the Internet to record and publish information that an inspection solution has been adopted for the purpose of illegal construction, ordering a certain inspection measure and a classification mark, the manual number and date of adoption of that solution and, on the basis of an inspection solution which suspends the inspection procedure or execution of the inspection solution, deletes these data from the information system. So there are generally no names and names, although people should still see who did wrong in that part. They have particles, or they're all connected to the location. However, the transparency of such decisions and the measures adopted by this law are very important. In the end, the HNS Club is very supportive of this proposal of the Construction Inspectorate Act, the first reading. We hope that after these discussions, there will be the highest quality proposal of this law, and all in the finality, it will be possible to say that we are... society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51163	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mirela Holly. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Davorin Mlakar, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister. I answered here first with a desire to commend the fact that there are ministries in this government that will allow the laws to go into two readings, not to be adopted by an emergency procedure. And I think we should take this example and stay in other ministries, and here I thank you for giving us the opportunity to talk a little longer and more seriously about all these laws. Secondly, I am pleased that in your opening presentation you have also provided some statistics, the data of the analysis that you have done that can help understand your ideas and decisions, and also the adoption of this Construction Inspectorate Act. I did not report under the first two laws, although I have suggestions in relation to them, but I did report for the construction inspection law because it seems important to note that there is now one tendency, it is more of an opportunity issue than the legality of the regulation, which is that certain services in the ministries are particularly separated by the adoption of specific laws on them. You're not the first, unfortunately there's a law on administrative inspection. The question is, is that necessary? Especially when you read the contents of the law and then you see that it's a law that speaks in the main section of the ministry's work, and then one ministry specifically draws out within a special law. I don't think that, given our otherwise legislative initiative, it's very commendable because we have too many regulations anyway, but it's not an objection that should say anything particularly bad about this law. However, there are two or three observations here, so it's a good thing that the first reading that I'm thinking about or the comments I'm going to make here is, and I'd like you to think about this second reading of the law. The first or most important is in Article 23 which you have arranged for the decision made by the building inspector not to make an appeal but to refer the parties to the administrative dispute. This in other words means that you refer them to the administrative courts, and this is one in a series of laws that further now determines the jurisdiction of administrative courts for a whole series of proceedings that will certainly burden the courts further anyway. And we won't gain the efficiency of the resolution, I'm afraid we'll bury the courts, I'm afraid these courts don't need another such procedure without leaving you the possibility of making an appeal that is otherwise guaranteed by the Constitution the right of citizens. But then you showed that other thing that you actually centralized the service and that you don't have a body that would solve the complaints, since all these inspectors are now de facto solving in the first degree above which there is no body that would solve the complaint, and then you refer them to the administrative dispute. I think this is a bad solution and I believe it would be much more quality and in protection regardless of the desire for efficiency because it is not guaranteed by this. I would bet today that administrative courts will be relatively slow to resolve because they are gaining greater and greater jurisdiction and it will simply be impossible to solve in some way, so let's say a reasonable period of time for all those cases to be found before these courts. The second objection is to the fact that we have been aware or heard for many years about the fact that you have not received enough candidates to escape from these jobs in any way. This job was certainly embarrassing in its part, perhaps that is why and given the salaries in the state administration, it was not surprising that people had chosen jobs of less responsibility or less sensitivity, and for the likely higher salary with those qualifications they had. In this way that you now hand over one such profession and knowledge that she was supposed to have in order to do your job in quality, that part of that construction inspection to the communal directors is that I have listened to your analysis of the number and their professional preparation, and I think it's wrong to assume what inspection jobs would be and what conditions should be met by the people who perform them. You said and I'm afraid that all of us not only anecdotes but also tragedies from our own experience could be brought here by discussing both construction and construction inspection, you said that sometimes when you started to deal with this business that construction inspectors had been following the construction of the facility from the beginning, I believe that they were only one wheel in a series of those responsible for getting 820 thousand legalisation requests, which means that they were either unmotivated or prevented from doing their job properly. But of course those in their numbers and with their powers that they had could not prevent everything that was so special an inspiration for all Croatian citizens was when the buildings were built. So I would conclude with a few things, one is you have commented in the Construction Act that according to your proposal those who will submit requests that will be incomplete will not at all come to the possibility of considering these requests, and I will warn here and I am surprised that you did not get this from your collegiate ministries remarks, which is that such a way of regulating the procedure for issuing a permit contrary to the General Administrative Procedure Act. it prescribes exactly what every official who receives the request must do to complete the send to the competent authority, etc. and in which case may refuse the request if it is not completed with the necessary documentation. So you can't really talk about the Construction Act without changing the General Administration Act. But I believe that's all the questions that can be corrected by the second reading. I would stay with the finding that it seems dangerous and not exactly a quality solution to rule out this law to appeal to building inspectors' solutions and to point them only to administrative disputes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51165	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I only replicated my colleague Mlakar because you said it was excellent that two readings that this bill was in two readings because I think the practice of passing quality laws should be in two readings. Only two readings can make concrete proposals, detect shortcomings, and not negative ones have attitudes but a desire to improve the legal proposal. So here's the point of the desire to improve really is one remark. The word monk in the spirit of Croatian means a person who observes order and maintains order, and the inspector in the spirit of Croatian means a person who oversees the implementation of the prescribed rules. Thus, the director of this bill provides that he oversees the prescribed rules do not correspond to the name of the director. I think it would prefer the name of the municipal inspector and that, as well as the building inspector of Article 10, it is arranged that the badge will be issued under certain conditions provided for by the regulation to also determine that the municipal inspector requires certain conditions to be issued to them by the flag of the communal inspector, under which conditions it is to be laid down by the Regulation but to be called for the work they do. And that everything that is positive financially resulted in his work that income is local self-government. I think if someone had a better suggestion, but I think they'd be more suited to the name of a communal inspector than a communal officer, because order only maintains order and observes order, and it doesn't monitor like the inspector's job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I only replicated my colleague Mlakar because you said it was excellent that two readings that this bill was in two readings because I think the practice of passing quality laws should be in two readings. Only two readings can make concrete proposals, detect shortcomings, and not negative ones have attitudes but a desire to improve the legal proposal. So here's the point of the desire to improve really is one remark. The word monk in the spirit of Croatian means a person who observes order and maintains order, and the inspector in the spirit of Croatian means a person who oversees the implementation of the prescribed rules. Thus, the director of this bill provides that he oversees the prescribed rules do not correspond to the name of the director. I think it would prefer the name of the municipal inspector and that, as well as the building inspector of Article 10, it is arranged that the badge will be issued under certain conditions provided for by the regulation to also determine that the municipal inspector requires certain conditions to be issued to them by the flag of the communal inspector, under which conditions it is to be laid down by the Regulation but to be called for the work they do. And that everything that is positive financially resulted in his work that income is local self-government. I think if someone had a better suggestion, but I think they'd be more suited to the name of a communal inspector than a communal officer, because order only maintains order and observes order, and it doesn't monitor like the inspector's job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51168	Thank you very much. You gave me the opportunity to say once again, but I believe it is not a wise solution for the municipal directors to become really not want to offend anyone, little building inspectors. That's why I was talking about how we couldn't even find construction inspectors because of the sensitivity of business, quality, high or higher professional equipment that was prescribed for these jobs. We now hear that of all the communal directors that we counted in the Republic of Croatia, I don't know if the minister said she had a high or higher professional equipment. We of these people who decide on both your property and the spatial planning of everything that we have already ruined with spatial planning expect that the communal directors will be able to react to the mistreatment to say it in general. And in our most common understanding of the affairs of the communal directors, it is to monitor whether you have parked partly on the green surface, whether someone has taken out the trash in front of his house in a prescribed or unlicensed manner. I'm convinced that the serious work of a construction inspection cannot be carried out by a communal director and I would never go after it. And there are dislocated and district units where you will also have building inspectors to transfer their part of the jurisdiction and part of the business to the communal offices. I didn't want to get into the story at all that the question of whose income the penalties that the municipal directors will charge for and who will pay for the additional engagement of these public directors is likely to fall on the units of local self-government but I'm afraid the revenues won't. So this whole concept is actually centralizing these jobs. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51169	We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for my dear colleague, Danesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51170	Thank you very much, Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say a few words about some of the provisions of this bill, given that it goes into two readings so that perhaps in some articles we can formulate some things more precisely. First of all, here in Article 2 of this Law, surveillance tasks have been said, etc. The administrative body of the local self-government unit shall continue to be responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy. We know that in rural areas, smaller municipalities are not specially organized in local self-government for the affairs of the municipal economy, but there is only a single administrative department that solves it all together with the communal director. Perhaps you should say more precisely, though, if there is no such resources in small municipalities, there is only one single administrative department. Here in Article 9, we've just heard a lot about the communal directors, and I think for them, the condition of the middle is being prepared by the Law on Community Activities. In my opinion, here in Article 9, it may be necessary to install more precisely these conditions so that deadlines can be set within which time limits would be stimulating for those who do so even after a certain number, or above a certain number of residents in larger municipalities and environments, I think that this should be conditioned with both a higher volume and a longer deadline. That these people can first of all be the expert exam absolutely because they were just well said by a colleague, Mlakar, they are small building inspectors in this regard. Furthermore, Article 5 states the construction inspection is being set up and then it is emphasized which one has in the ministry and has district offices in Zagreb and Split and the district unit in other county headquarters. And here in Article 50, we are talking about an appeal made to a municipal director's solution. The inspector has no complaints, this is clearly said here, but to the solution of the communal director, the administrative body of the regional self-government unit. No matter what the emphasis is on Zagreb and Split alone, but I read that this will practically be resolved in each county, i.e. as a secondary administrative body. It is understood that although not enough may not be precisely said. I would further like to ask one more question about this article 58. Here I must say that I am not getting the clearest idea in the Chapter – Temporary construction suspension and construction closure. In the exercise of supervision, the municipal director orders the investor, i.e. the owner to suspend the construction of the building, etc. and further writes if it is carried out contrary to the construction ban which the representative body of the unit of local self-government adopts under a specific law governing the administrative area. I don't think that's really clear to me what this is about, because if the building of this facility is spatial-planned documents, it's not supposed to be regulated, so such an investor shouldn't get a building permit at all. I mean, I don't know what that means, so I'm asking it a little more like a question. And there are two more places here that are prescribed by the Minister among other things and here under point 4 of the closing and marking of the closed construction site by the communal director is prescribed by the Minister. That would be good if we were to agree to a proposal for these regulations there is another rule here, it is pointed out forward, that these articles may be improved in content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51171	Thank you. It's time for my dear colleague, Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with your associates. So the fact that under the Law on Legalisation of Legalized Objects has resulted in 700 and more demands suggests that this is an area that should definitely be tried to edit. In fact, all these years we've had all kinds of laws, we've had all kinds of inspections, but what's been going on has happened. So the situation isn't good, and the logical thing is that this situation is trying to change. I would like to begin by stressing that these three laws that replace the current law are not only sent to the Croatian Assembly for two readings, which will, of course, enable the quality of these laws, but are the whole laws which, in accordance with EU requirements, regulate certain issues such as the issue of energy efficiency, including the Construction Act even bear the label P.Z.E. but it does not go according to an emergency procedure as it has often been practice here, so if the law were to be passed quickly then it could be brought under P.Z.E. under emergency procedure and brought into one reading. And that's where I pay tribute to the ministry, which the law has decided to put in two readings. I'm just going to point out some things that are notorious in the conduct of our administration and state administration and units of local and regional self-government over the past 20 years that we're not going any further that have fallen for my eye, which is an attempt to uniquely regulate the question of property value or building land, which has been a major problem so far that it's opened up the possibility of completely free estimates and then abuse, manipulation, there was no possibility of valorisation, so the representative body, or local self-government, and even the state bodies have sometimes chosen the Tax Administration, sometimes witches, and sometimes just some special expert who has trained as it suits someone. Unfortunately, despite all the institutions' appeals, they did not do their job then it went so, and it was obvious that it was about playing the rules, and often it was from afar looking or from a close point of view either in the interests of those participants whether they were the leaders of local self-government or the leaders of some state bodies. It is in itself an important step to regulate this important question of property value assessment in a unique way and to evaluate the quality of this process. Another important issue that needs to be resolved here is that this set of laws is resolved, and since the first reading can then be spoken wider is that the documents of spatial planning, building documents are issued by means of spatial plans and spatial order documents that were valid at the time of submission of the request. Since it is even possible for the investor to submit a request on the basis of valid spatial order documents, and then, at the stage of approving its request, the issue of construction documents is changing the spatial plans or urban plans of the lower order, it is not important now and that the investor is then forced to change his documents and his request in accordance with the documents that were subsequently issued. It's something that's unimaginable to happen. And of course, I'm glad that in this set of laws, this illogicality will also be removed, so of course it will increase the legal stability and security of investors, and then it will probably allow more investment than it has ever been before. Speaking specifically of this law on construction inspection, of course it is a very complicated job that reflects probably all our troubles and all our problems, not only the fact that an insufficient number of inspectors wanted to do this job at all but the fact that such a distortion of space has occurred as did this illegal construction that we are talking about here. It's a situation that lasts, we follow laws, we change laws, but everything actually remains the same as anything that means we didn't have the courage or the strength to deal with both the mentality and the weaknesses of our administration and the mentality of the irresponsibility, and then it's the consequence of what we had the opportunity to see, and the space is, of course, a very valuable resource and we really treated it irresponsiblely. And the question that arises is that after this Law on Legalization, some moral questions are asked which, if respected or even justified, would only sanction or bring down 800,000 objects, and of course we can't do either. This whole legalisation process should therefore be supported if the consequences and poor work of the inspection are indeed to be supported. The most talk here was that there was an increase in the burden on the communal directors. So, they're, they're doing a construction inspection only in those cases where a building permit is not issued. So, when it comes to some business that can be swept under the utility business. And instead of now in these matters, the municipal chiefs and mayors depend on building inspection from the central state now have the instrument in their hands. Of course, that raises other issues, but the legislator's fundamental intensities to increase the powers of local self-government units in issues that are particularly important to them and that is, therefore, some kind of upgrade of municipal affairs, which is certainly a good intensity. The questions that have been raised here should certainly be resolved. That's two questions. The question of the training of municipal directors for this yet somewhat more demanding job than is their usual job as communal directors. That's the question to solve. In the phase of the debate on the law or in the law in the second final reading, the ministry can give some solutions that will enable these people, therefore the municipal directors, to do their job successfully on the professional side. And of course that's a question and a cost that will have to be taken out of some items for their jobs. It would be logical that colleagues mainly said from the opposition that profits, i.e. revenues from the collection of those penalties from that level of municipal directors, are income from local self-government units because whenever units of local self-government are increased powers and powers they must also be monitored by increasing the funds for the behaviour of these new tasks and new duties. But the ministry has a chance to think about it all, possibly put it in a legal solution in the second reading. Or regulate these issues with the basis of documents based here on this law, the bill is prescribed by the minister as lower sublegal acts. Therefore, this is a good solution, there will certainly be difficulties in its implementation but the fundamental intensity and fundamental gain of this solution that units of local self-government decide for themselves, with the possibility of affecting this important communal issue for them, this fundamental intention of this Law should certainly be supported. And these difficulties should certainly be tried either in the phase of the debate until the second reading of this Act or in the sublegal acts that the minister, or the ministry, will adopt after the law has been passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51173	Thank you. A respected colleague, Milorad Batinic, vice president of the House, also called for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51174	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers with their associates. Namely, my debate has been offered by the debates of colleagues related to local self-government units, the jurisdiction of municipal directors. I didn't mean to answer, namely I support this law and I commend that it goes through two readings. In fact, it is said that a large number of colleagues have said that this would be an additional burden for local self-government units, and as a leader, I can say in part that for the third term. But there's always that but. What jobs have been carried out so far by communal officials who have been knowingly and under the Law on the Communist Economy doing their job. All this stuff that's now formalized through the construction inspection bill. He monitored the area, monitored whether someone was working illegally, had upgraded it, and then had to make an official note, certified by the head of the communal management department and forward the jurisdiction to the inspection. In one part now he is the first hand, in this second part in collaboration with the municipal, with the construction inspection doing what he had done before. I agree that this is where a certain doubt is raised and I believe that the ministry, or the minister, will find solutions. I have a few suggestions and suggestions, and I believe that they will be supported by other colleagues who have a life problem. Or they will either work or work in the future or know more about the business of the municipal economy. In fact, I definitely believe that a certain intervention will be required in the Law on the Community Economy in accordance with all these provisions, powers, competences defined by this Law on municipal redistribution. Communal order, medium expert prepares. Mola has passed a state-of-the-art exam. Now, rarely who, this statistic is extremely important, only 100 out of 600 and some construction technicians. Why do I say that, in fact, I'm a forest engineer and you know more or less that until a certain period of time, forestry worked very few of the graduate engineers, some of the few technicians, mostly the lollipopists. Then, as he was educated, they were forest technicians, and they were forest keepers. So let's also allow our communal directorship that's been living for about 20 years maybe something shorter to evaluate in a certain part. Whether it will depend now and on the power of local self-government units is whether they are large cities, whether they are smaller cities, municipalities, whether more municipalities together depending on the needs of course and on the financial, fiscal power, who and how they will hire. Of course, it should primarily be seen to start working as soon as possible, to start tomorrow. Therefore, my recommendation goes and the ministry is sufficiently teamed up, quality and I don't think that this is some significant cost on the additional education of municipal directors in accordance with Article 9 which says that the supervision tasks under this law are carried out by the administrative body, means the communal directors who have the powers to exercise supervision. That's what the promoter himself has given himself an obligation, so someone's gonna have to issue an authorisation. Whether it's an administrative department in local self-government units, whether it's a ministry, maybe I'm saying, that's why first reading is extremely important for all details and some doubts to try to resolve. Furthermore, the communal director performs tasks, will now carry out part of the construction inspection, means it and control of space, will carry out tasks and protection of the environment, meaning everything defined by the Law on the Communist Economy. Today, there is not one universal school for a communal director or maybe I don't know, but I don't think that's even a problem, and I believe in some way I'd like to oblige the ministry to take on certain programs, education, schooling through adequate seminars. Because I'm saying, let's build on this law to correct the procedure in the municipal economy a new type of European municipal directors, so maybe tomorrow it's not called the municipal director but perhaps the communal inspector. Dal will be more prepared, he will be high-prepared, depending on the needs of local self-government units. There was the same thing, my colleague Boris, I'm glad he came, so he could hear me, so he wouldn't talk, namely, yes, I agree. In the continent, the municipal director works for 12 months, in the coastal area on the coast works intensively for 3 to 4 months, the rest of his time period is still less. Accordingly, it means place 3 to 4 thousand inhabitants, in the season there are more than 10,000 inhabitants with tourists and the volume of work, of course, is increased, and I think there is always a way, a reserve, that units of local self-government are organised to cover all activities. What's about this construction inspection bill to me, I may be wrong about the coastal area in the season itself, there's no building. So it's built before the season or it's built after the season, so I don't think there's going to be any major interference with the implementation of this law. What else do you say? I appeal again to the ministry, since it has in some way given the obligation to the local self-government units to take over the obligation to attend school, to educate the staff, to organise seminars that through one period of time real municipal directors, even now that function is dependent, not only on the name but also on the person doing the job that has the authority. We have various communal directors, from various environments, various traffic directors. Whether their salaries are low, so they are all low wages in Croatia. It could be bigger. As for the same difference between the continent and the coast, let's look into the context of income per capita units of local self-government. Here we are from the continent one large number, three to five times on the coast of the local self-government unit have higher income per capita, so I don't think it should be a reason if in the continent with income per capita of 1100 kuna we can finance both traffic directors and communal directors and agricultural directors that cities on the coast who use rent very well, whether for some other reasons it couldn't, which have out of 6, 7, even over 10 thousand kuna income per capita. I don't see it as a distraction, probably even a debate going that way. What I will now propose to ministers is precisely because of those environments that do not have that financial capacity to be part of, but it is again the procedure in the Law on the Communist Economy, that part of those units, whether the corrective factor of development, income per head, is that part of the funds from the communal contribution that we know is being deployed, that it can be used for part of the wages of municipal redistribution. And finally, I hope that the intervention in the Law on Communal Order will have more, and that the previous two laws are done accordingly, that this procedure will follow as soon as possible, so that we can round up one integrated whole and that this system can function as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51175	We have reports of replicas on this exhibit. First of all, respected colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51176	Thank you very much, Vice President. Coliga Batinić, regardless of what you consider to be a question and a difference in income between continental and coastal Croatia, this is a question deeper and I believe that if there is a system that is not good that in some way parachuting in a certain legislative sector or activities, we degrade the existing system through legislative activities because this system is based on a certain value and whoever became a building inspector has passed the education system so that he can deal with this work. It's not small, it's not cheap, and it doesn't last for a while. To bring him closer to someone who hasn't passed that system and told him now he can do what you can. If the state does not have the power to upgrade the system, then it has no right to degrade that system regardless of the good intentions that may exist or someone has thought of it. It's a basic question, and then we can do examples like this or something, and then we'll get a problem. That's why it's smarter for me to give it up, because the 100 inspectors we have this way are demoted by me and the rest of them never should if they don't get past the same stairs. Although we seem to notice construction and we report it and write something down, no one can even complain about it. It's pretty simple, but we can't build such systems and that's why we have a problem. And that's why the ministry or the power of the state has to monitor it properly or give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51177	The replica corresponds to Vice-President of the Parliament, respected Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51178	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Boric, I didn't see this as a system degradation. On the contrary, as well as for the citizens, I'm not going to tell the introduction of order, because I'm saying my practice is my experience that the communal directors have been doing that part so far. Now he's legal. What if you're reading article 9 I quoted it, if you're reading other articles is a simple building that's a key word. What are simple structures, and what should a communal director do and how? Now, what I missed might say in the debate I didn't want to raise tensions, but this is one technical law and what I'm looking forward to in this assembly when the technical laws are about what's life, there's just no political charge and you're trying, you need to get off the agenda, no, not at all. Make comments, make suggestions, they'll fit in. And I'd end up with that old saying that whoever wants something will find a way, and whoever doesn't want a reason can always be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51179	Next replica, respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51180	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President and counterpart Batinić, you spoke about the municipal directors and that they are expected to have a mid-level professional provision by law, but that 50% of the municipal directors have even high professional equipment. Sometimes it's highly professionally prepared, or superior to the desired advantage, but sometimes it's not. Depends on the case to the case. The communal director is not a specific knowledge, and therefore, if the communal director has more professional equipment than requested, it is a desirable phenomenon. But if a graduate engineer wants a dental technician's job, then it's an unwanted appearance or a hairdresser. Here, communal directors take over work, professional work, and it's not enough to say that they have high or medium professional equipment. They need specific knowledge, expertise. Here I was talking about trying to get first graders in where they don't belong. Here's work for first graders. This is exactly the situation. There should be specific knowledge here, because monitoring whether something is being carried out in accordance with the legal regulations requires specific knowledge. I'm not sure a graduate dentist would be qualified as a communal inspector at the beginning. I didn't. Therefore, I think that the law should lay down the conditions that a municipal inspector or director should have and that it must be a minimum medium-sized expert preparer and that it is certainly more desirable to have a technical direction, namely a building rather than a high professional cook or a master of science, agriculture or something else. And I therefore think that this should be clearly determined by the law which the expert prepares is necessary and which calling is necessary to carry out such a complex and responsible job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51181	Thank you. The replica corresponds to Vice-President of the Parliament, respected Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51182	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maric, well, perhaps you haven't, I hope I spoke clearly when I spoke about the qualification structure, what is desirable to have a communal director, and to respond to the demands of the time in which we are, that we are a Member State of the EU, that through a series of laws, we accept certain standards and, of course, we have to meet their requirements. I agree with you. And he's not a communal director, he doesn't have a school. There are certain whether it's a construction, I don't know if it's a technician, if it's someone else, whether it's a higher school but certain skills, what I said, and my recommendation was to the competent ministry and the minister to take a number of educations in terms of education, the education of communal ordership against environmental protection. So it's not just buildings, it's all about the Law on the Communist Economy. I don't know 650, 700 people, it's gonna be even more, it's not that simple, but it's not inconclusive, it won't require too much money. Of course, in part, our local budgets will burden it. Now, what kind of situation is currently in the qualification structure of the communal order, who's higher, with high-pricedness, why he took that job cannot define and determine that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51183	And the last replica in this debate, the esteemed Danes Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51184	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your discussion, you have made a very good point of this problem of the communal director, and you have made a certain combination in the various areas that are tasks, and as provided for in this chapter in Articles 31 to 35. You've made a good point because in rural areas I appreciate that this problem or business related to this problem is almost 80, 90% in the competence of the communal director, and maybe 10.15% in the building inspector. Namely, I have to say that in the rural environment where I am the chief in six villages we counted 349 empty houses of which 140 and a few are in ruins. Therefore, I need a communal director who will be able to realize it. Especially a tragic situation where you have two objects possibly even three next to each other. It's one rat fox and everything. It is in our villages in some parts of Eastern Slavonia and Baranja very, very pronounced and very serious problem. And let me also say that there are still 300 and several other objects where only grandparents live. Therefore, in 2, 3 to 5 years, those houses will become empty. So I think that the accent here needs what you've made nice and now and in response to put on that communal director because he's really got a lot of work to do because some of our smaller villages, given the objective circumstances that came from the village, are going to become salsa, and then they need to be arranged salsa, not to be ruins but to be instead of those ruins, the park area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51185	Thank you very much. And this replica corresponds to Vice-President of the House, the Honorable Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51186	Thank you, Vice President. You've also been the head of the local self-government unit for many years, so you know the problem very well. By this law, we give greater dignity to the communal director himself. So, if we look at it, what's the scope of the business that he's doing, what's the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit? To serve our citizens. I pulled the parallel, why the losers? They were from 8th grade primary school, some with 6, some with 4th graded, educated so they could do certain jobs. It's the same, so my intensity was like some kind of historical intersection in which communal rediving should go. So it may be in about 10 years' time that the medium prepares inappropriately for the function of performing the activities of the communal order, given the increasing obligations I will not be told to impose but simply to raise the quality of life standards for us and our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51187	Thank you. Here we will now hear the final word of the Minister of Construction and the spatial arrangement of the esteemed Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here we come to the end of the construction inspection bill. Before I refer to this very law, I would like to mention three more things that were mentioned in the debate. The Real Estate Assessment Regulation was mentioned. Indeed, last night already at the end of the debate, I once again mentioned and said look at the Law on the Spatial Regulation of Article 186(5), which obliges the Government to adopt the Real Estate Assessment Regulation. The regulation is extremely important, it is also extremely important for units of local self-government to act for the simple reason that it will define the methodology that we do not have for the same land two judicial experts who estimate one to 30 euros and the other to 300 euros. That's what you all who are mayors and mayors have already been through. So I'm glad to have another chance to refer to the regulation. The Regulation is one of the instruments that will improve this entire set of state-of-the-art arrangements in space. The second thing that is equally mentioned, which may have been a little gentle in the presentation of the law, is that the location permit is in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning, or building permit, in accordance with the Law on the Construction of Issues in accordance with the plan which is in force at the time of the application. It is now defined in one law and another. We hope that it was no longer our problem to define because the whole system is actually based on one speed and efficiency but what do we have today? It's always convenient to know what we have today so we know what we don't want. Therefore, today the law does not define the plan under which a local authorisation is issued and the local authorisation is issued in accordance with the plan which is in force at the time of the adoption of the solution. Thus, however, the Ministry is esteemed, but the Administrative Court finds that local permits should have been issued in accordance with the plan which was in force when the application was submitted and at any verdict of the Administrative Court, the Ministry shall apply for the protection of legality. The Supreme Court has the same position as the Ministry. No matter what attitudes, it's not good for investors. So, investors are in trouble and I repeat once again when I speak to the investor, then the investor and our fellow citizen are going to get his garage permit, and so is the investor who's going to build a skyscraper. To put an end to this, to introduce security in one law and another is now clearly and unequivocally in line with the plan that is in force at the time of the application, so here is once again an opportunity to repeat it. And Article 58. The Law on Building Inspection, which was also referred to by Honorable Representative Shoja, has to do with one of the things that has been said on committees, and here in the debate may not have been sufficiently observed, and this is a ban on construction work during the tourist season. So in our places along the sea there is a possibility and these units of local self-government make a decision to ban them from performing their work during the tourist season so that this article 58 in connection with this article is now a provision in a law that says that all works are prohibited today, so all works are prohibited during the tourist season. The proposal for a law on construction says the work of the country's and constructive during the tourist season will be able to do some fine works of art and some small crafts work, so that it will not be prevented. So I need you once again because in the discussion there were words to be referred to. In short, as has already been said several times here, we are talking about public, openness, transparency, clear procedures, accountability. I'd like to underline three elements of the construction inspection bill. One element is responsibility, the other element is quick action and the third element is giving all the tools so that it can be done, responsibility and building inspectors. Why have we introduced the entire system of communal directors? For the reason that in this discussion yours has been told. We introduced them because they're in the field because they're really going around today and they're doing some of the jobs informally, and now they're going to do them formally. Their powers are related to those procedures and those constructions that are built without a building permit, as already stated. And indeed this discussion on municipal directors is welcome to us because it absolutely speaks in favour of a decision that should have been considered, but in order for it to work out to the end, there must really be two things defined as it comes from the discussion and we are absolutely aware of it. One thing is education and that education will be done by the ministry, done continuously and the other is financial resources. Indeed, until the second reading, we will once again pass with the resolutely competent Ministry of Finance, and once again we will pass with all other competent ministries to make it clear and unequivocally stated in this law that income from the penalties paid by the municipal directors will be the incomes of the local self-government units because then it has an absolute framework. We are aware of this, we are already in one informal conversation when the bill's proposals were prepared and we are absolutely aware if we are introducing something new, and this is the municipal director we must give him the opportunity to have tools to act, on the one hand to be trained enough to be able to do this job in quality, but also on the other hand the tool to the municipalities and the city that he has the means from which he could realise that these communal directors are actually adequately paid or to employ new communal monks. And until the second reading, we will really do everything possible to create frameworks for such action and for such action. With this law, the construction inspection bill ends this one of our packages. Yesterday was one wish for a united debate. It's a good thing it's not. And today I'm absolutely sure it's a good thing it's not, and on the one hand I've got a chance to talk to you every little bit and tell you stories, and you won't mind giving me that story some time, but I think it's a good thing that we all know the situation together. Our wish from the beginning was, we had no doubt, these laws are extremely important laws, not so that we could boast that we made good laws. These laws are good for our citizens, these laws need to protect space in terms of control of space. All the remarks we've received will be processed once again. I've already spoken directly from this pay phone about some of the remarks we've received that absolutely Bianca can sign not only we're going to install them but we're going to do everything we can to make sure they're built in. Some other things require a little more thought, when we do, we will come before this esteemed House for a second reading and I hope that next year we will all start with new laws together. We as a ministry will be ready for this big venture, we will conduct education and we will be on the ground all the time. Once again, I repeat the best law that is the best law for which we can all agree on both right and left and middle sides of this assembly that is a good law. If the legislator does not control if it is not continuously on the ground, if there is no continuing return from the field as these laws operate, these laws will not be good in their implementation. Our wish is not only for them to be formal but also for them to be good at implementation, to be good for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51189	I thank Minister Dark Taritash. I'm closing the debate. This legislative proposal will be made clear tomorrow during a vote starting at 12,00 hours, and we will continue the session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation No 4/2009 of 18 December 2008 on jurisdiction and the applicable right of recognition, enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to abstention obligations. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-03-0.u51190	Proposal for a Construction Inspectorate Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 468. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the following conclusion is put to the vote: - a proposal for a Law on Construction Inspection - all objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 24 votes in favour and 8 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
