ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40365	Thank you, President of the Parliament. In order to ensure further harmonisation of the Law on Foreigners with the directives of the European Union governing the stay of foreigners, the amendments and additions to the current Act on Foreigners governing the area of entry, stay and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia have been made. Certain provisions on common standards and procedures in the Member States relating to the return of third-country nationals whose stay is illegal should be adapted to the circumstances which will arise when the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union. As of 1 July 2013, foreigners will be granted a residence permit for third-country nationals and a residence card for citizens of the European Economic Area, which will contain the RFID electronic data carrier to which the biometric data of foreigners, papal lines of fingers and photographs of foreigners will be stored. The issue of a new special passport for foreigners who have regulated status in the Republic of Croatia is prescribed, who were unable to obtain a national travel document without their own fault. It is also prescribed to issue documents on the basis of an international contract to be issued to foreigners under the terms of those international contracts. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs will adopt the rules within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the law. In line with the EU acquis, the conditions for issuing visas have been defined and the competent authority for resolving complaints in the second-degree procedure has been defined, the ministry responsible for foreign affairs will be. It also extended the period from 6 months to a year on which temporary stay can be granted for other purposes to foreigners who wish to stay in the Republic of Croatia in their own properties due to health tourism, etc. Instead of 30 days, the requirements have been submitted 60 days before the expiry of the period of valid temporary stay and it is explicitly prescribed that the police administration, or police station, is required to resolve the request for an extension of the temporary stay. In the event that the police administration, or the police station, does not resolve the request to extend the temporary stay within the specified deadline, the State Inspectorate against a foreigner or employer shall not submit an indictment proposal or impose an action ban. Detailed provisions on refusal to enter, or exit from the Republic of Croatia, have been elaborated. Conditions relating to the issue of residence permits and work which annual quotas are prescribed to foreigners employed in crafts in such a way that a foreigner self-employed in the trade of income levels demonstrates by means of independent work. The categories of foreigners authorised to stay and work have also been extended under favourable conditions. In addition to foreigners doing business in companies, which are the promoters of the incentive measures in accordance with the investment incentive regulations, it is also extended to companies implementing strategic investment projects in accordance with the rules on strategic investment projects. More detailed regulation of volunteer work, as well as foreigners who will perform unpaid training in the Republic of Croatia is required. The age limit for volunteers is 18 to 65 years old. An organisation where a stranger will volunteer must take full responsibility for a stranger during the volunteering. For foreigners who will perform unpaid training training, it is prescribed that they must provide evidence of training in a legal or physical person, institution or association that recognises the competent authority according to the activity in which the training exercise is carried out. It is more precisely defined that those deadlines and durations of work 90, 60 or 30 days which are prescribed categories of foreigners who can operate on the basis of a certificate of application shall be calculated on a calendar basis. The rights of foreigners to whom the residence and work permit has been issued are detailed, i.e. they can work without a permit to stay and work. For example. Parties to a permanent stay, asylum seekers, parties to temporary and subsidiary protection, which relate to the duration of working time, the shortest duration of paid annual leave and others, as well as the rights of pension and health insurance, tax relief, market access and goods services, etc., which will comply with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia which regulate certain areas. The categories of foreigners that can regulate permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia have been extended so that, apart from foreigners on temporary stay, permanent stay can be granted to foreigners who have asylum or subsidiary protection. Penalties are in line with the provisions of the Criminal Code. And if you'll let me, I'd just like a few details in these tables, the requested data that were, so, here we are, I hope to share with fellow MPs and MPs. So I'm just gonna tell you for a little while. [[/Intruder President: They come in material form. They'll be divided.]] Foreigners at the approved status in 2012 temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia was approved, so there were 17318 persons. In 2013 17077 persons. There were 14526 persons at a permanent stay in 2012 and in 2013. 14606 people. So in 2012, there were 31844 people on the temporary stay, which was 31844 people on the permanent stay, and in 2013, which was a total of 31683 people on the temporary stay. EU citizens in the next table on the temporary stay in 2012 had 4959 persons and 4085 people on permanent stays. In 2013, there were 5144 persons on the temporary stay and 4387 people on the permanent stay. So, in 2013, a temporary stay, which at the permanent stay of EU citizens was 9531 people. The third table shows the parties, i.e. their illegal stay on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In 2012, there were 6541 persons and 3926 persons in 2013. As regards asylum, the number of asylum applications lodged in 2012 was 1194 and 2013. 676. The approved protection in 2012, which was asylum, was 21 persons, and 14 people were granted on subsidiary protection to have subsidiary protection. In 2013, 4 people were granted asylum and 6 persons were granted subsidiary protection. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40366	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee rapporteurs, the working bodies of the Assembly want to present reports? There's no interest. I'm opening a debate. We're going to discuss it in the counseling clubs. The first is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's Club of Representatives and the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40367	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. The foreign law applicable from 1 January 2012 regulates the area of entry and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. However, the practical application of the law has seen shortcomings both in terms of substance, so nomotechnically and of course that this proposal also seeks to be removed. Here is how we heard and we know this from 1 July for foreigners in Croatia will be worth the same rules as in other EU countries. Therefore, we need to bring these amendments into line with European directives. The provisions on foreigners, i.e. the refusal to enter, exit, the visa regime, etc., are detailed in this law. If foreigners are not able to obtain a national, travel document also prescribed possibility, i.e. issuing a new special travel document, passports for foreigners who have regulated status whether they are granted temporary stay, whether permanent stay, whether subsidiary protection under the provisions of the Asylum Act. Here's the deputy minister who gave us the numbers that tell us how many temporary and permanent stays of foreigners, how many EU citizens they are, so I don't repeat those numbers now. The temporary stay is approved by a foreigner who intends to stay or stay in the Republic of Croatia for family integration, then secondary education, study, humanitarian work, scientific work and the work of scheduled workers. It is then that the permit for stay and work is actually approved. This law, i.e. the proposal specifically defined which rights are granted by a foreigner who has been granted a temporary stay when it comes to scientific research, in fact a period during which a stranger who has concluded a roaming contract in another EPG Member State and on the basis of which he has an approved stay may conduct scientific research in the Republic of Croatia. A temporary stay for other purposes is also prescribed. It can be approved for a year, given that foreigners stay longer, for example, because of health tourism or the use of real estate. Different conditions relating to the issue of residence permits and work outside the annual quota are also laid down for foreigners employed in crafts and the level of receipts shall prove their independent work achieved. As we have heard in detail are listed all rights of foreigners who have been granted a permit to stay and work, i.e. who can work without a residence permit. In addition, this proposal provides more specifically that it is binding in the process of granting consent to a visa application by the Ministry and the Security Intelligence Agency. A foreigner who submits a short-term visa for one or two entry is obliged to prove that he has adequate valid travel medical care to cover the costs that may arise during his stay in the Republic of Croatia and, for example, for the sake of emergency medical assistance, due to hospital emergency treatment, for returning to the country permanent stay for health reasons or do not give God of transport in case of death. The future regulation of the Croatian visa system in which the visa system is in the jurisdiction of the Member States in accordance with a regulation listing third countries whose nationals must have visas for crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement is foreseen. The said Regulation shall apply directly from the date of entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia. The period of validity of the visa or the duration of the stay granted on the basis of the visa issued may then be extended if the Ministry considers that the visa holder has provided evidence of a higher force or humanitarian reasons preventing it from leaving the territory of the Republic of Croatia before the expiry of the period of validity or the duration of stay of an approved visa, i.e. the existence of serious personal reasons justifying the extension of the period of validity or duration of stay. The conditions of authorisation for staying and working outside the annual quota for volunteers and foreigners who were not so closely defined in the previous law were also further defined, so we heard that the residence permit can be issued to volunteers if they have 18 to 65 years of age and concluded the Volunteering Treaty in accordance with specific rules on volunteering. The obligations that a stranger has, i.e. an organisation in which they are volunteered, should, of course, take full responsibility for foreigners who volunteer, including the costs of maintenance, accommodation, nutrition, health insurance and return. More precisely, what children can obtain permanent status is defined. The power of the Minister of the Interior is also prescribed to adopt, in the light of the attached opinion of the Minister of Social Policy and Youth and the Minister of Health, the Minister of Education and the Advocate General for Children, a sublegal regulation on how to implement special protection against minors. The entry into force of this law shall also be prescribed which provisions enter into force on the date of Croatia's entry into the EU and the entry into force of the legal provisions relating to the obligation to collect biometric data from the applicant for a visa from 1 January 2015. However, given the complexity of the project and the need to upgrade the information system and the expected huge increase in the number of requests in the RS embassies in the Russian Federation, Ukraine, in the Republic of Turkey due to the introduction of the visa regime from 1 April 2013, a delay in the entry into force of these provisions is proposed. The EU's information system has not yet been operational in both the Russian Federation and Turkey, and neither the EU Member States have yet to collect biometric data from citizens of those countries when they adopt visa applications. I would return to agreeing with the directives, namely the backbone of Directive 211/51, which is an emphasis on the economic, social cohesion of foreigners. It is important to stress that it is important for those who have been given international protection to make it easier, better integration and inclusion in a society where they will spend a certain amount of time. The data from the MUP also confirm that this year the trend of increasing the number of asylum applications continues, and we heard this in the opening words of Mr. Deputy Minister, and we know what number is recorded in seeking asylum in Croatia. When you look at the countries of Southeast and Central Europe, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, according to data in the first two years of EU accession, up to 300% of the demander's accession, then, of course, decreased and stabilised. As a member of the EU, Croatia will now be a country of destinations, before it was a transit country and now it is our destination country, so it will certainly be more asylum seekers. And I think it's going to be a huge burden. I wonder if we're ready, is it actually going to be, will our system or the functionality of the system put into question special accommodation capacity? Since now that you look at Croatia is an external border on the EU mainland. Therefore, it may now be the right time for us to not yet have such a large flow of asylum seekers to work on building institutional accommodation facilities. There may be EU funds for this. We colleagues and colleagues are entering the EU, and on this issue, the last thing we should be afraid of and terrified of is differences and diversity. We should be aware of them and use them in the best possible way by creating positive experiences that will facilitate any further integration process and accept new differences from our citizens and citizens of Croatia. On behalf of the SDP club, we accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40368	Thank you, too. It is up to the respected representative Ilija Filipovic on behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40369	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. I will say a few words on the Proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act, which is firstly adopted in order to bring the existing law into line with the necessary EU provisions and to become identical read in certain provisions when Croatia enters the EU. We have heard in a broader form from the Deputy Minister in which these amendments and amendments to the law go, I will only mention in basic lines what has impressed me and I think it is well regulated, and these are more detailed provisions that speak of refusing to enter or exit foreigners from the Republic of Croatia and the way visa extension is carried out. It is redefined in a special way as a category of foreigners who can apply for temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia in police administration or station, are prescribed in an adequate manner and conditions for issuing permits which is very important at the time of our unemployment for staying and working outside the annual quota for foreigners in the Republic of Croatia who are self-employed in commercial societies or in crafts in the Republic of Croatia. a it is prescribed to be precise and defined in which time periods these tasks may be carried out. At the same time, the procedure for third-country nationals is also prescribed in order to leave the new Syntagma of the European Economic Area. More detailed changes are foreseen to replace certain language expressions throughout the law, such as European economic space with the expression European economic space, which is very pleasant to me. It is mentioned that the extension of certain deadlines, e.g. the application for temporary stay approval under the applicable law is submitted no later than 30 days, is now possible within 60 days before the expiry of the valid authorisation or that the citizens of the European Economic Area are obliged to declare their residence or residence within 15 days, while that is, according to the applicable legal text, 8 days. I think this is one of the more flexible legal norms and this is a welcome change. So many spelling and grammatical errors have been corrected. But one provision in the text of the amendment and the addition of the law has made me particularly intrigued. Speaking as a representative of HDZ here on behalf of a club which in particular respects between other values of traditional value and Croatian identity I keep an unacceptable provision of Article 39 of the amendment and addition. I'll tell you why. This article deletes Article 5, Article 97, of the relevant law on foreigners, making it mandatory for foreigners who do not know the Croatian language and the Latin letter, so this is an imperial norm, they are required to attend a course of at least 150 teaching hours, and the language as such is one of the most important features of the identity of the Croatian people, so we will probably all agree. To avoid confusion, the above-mentioned legal provision applies to foreigners applying not for temporary but for permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, please remain in the Republic of Croatia without knowledge of Croatian language. That's a little illogical for me. I consider this proposed legislative provision to be completely wrong and harmful in the proposed amendments to the Foreign Law. Many of you will also say that by eradicating the said item, the Croatian identity is not compromised because if the proposed provisions are adopted or passed, the article 96. when there is a law before it can be seen which states that a permanent stay will be granted to a foreigner who knows the Croatian language and Latin script and Croatian culture and social order. You see these syntagms, very interesting. What does the word "know" basically mean? If you think about it a little bit, maybe I think the question is, do you know the Croatian language and the Latin letter enough to say that it regulates its position, becomes qualified to get a permanent stay in the Republic? Personally, as far as I'm concerned, and I believe many in the assembly, we mostly know part of the culture, and we know the state order, for example, of a Scandinavian country in Sweden. We know that Sweden is kings but I do not know Swedish and I believe that a small number of people in the Parliament and those who listen to us know the Swedish language and it is not enough to be a permanent member of the community and to do some serious work in Croatia, and not to know a single word of Swedish in Sweden or any word of Croatian, if that is, for example, a Swedish who came to the Republic of Croatia. What the legal provision that is to be deleted assumes is to overcome the basic rules of writing with a Latin letter and to know the basic words of the Croatian language for training in basic agreement, which can be adopted during the course of a particular duration that this article provides for, which is 150 teaching hours. I allow myself to say that 150 teaching hours are too long to obtain confirmation of the possession of basic language skills, as I also allow to say that the Centre for Croatian Language at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb, has a monopoly over the passing of this exam for foreigners who require a considerable amount of money, which simultaneously opens up the possibility of potential changes and additions in the part of the course of Croatian language. But I express deep dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the proposed erasure of this applicable legal provision. I will mention one example, Mrs Julia Kranjec of the Peace Studies Centre, editor of the 2012 report on the position of foreigners in an article published on the portal further.com, published on May 7th, so a few days ago, this year I quote: "A lot of things in the law are still noteworthy, there are many administrative and bureaucratic obstacles that must be crossed. In addition, a major problem for foreigners is the Croatian language and learning, i.e. the possibility of integration.". I can agree with the fact that it is not easy to overcome the basics of the rich and in the language sense of the highly developed Croatian language, the difficult language for foreigners, we will admit, but just respected Mrs Kranjec has stated that the problem is in the integration of foreigners. However, how to integrate into a particular society without knowledge of language when integration and language are at their highest level. In Croatia right now, so here we heard from the respected deputy minister, it is close to 31 or 32 thousand foreigners, mostly from BiH, Serbia, from Germany, Slovenia, Kosovo and Macedonia. Many of them for various reasons, which family, which business, want to become citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this process, I must say it publicly, with a bureaucratic jungle that must be opened to obtain permanent residence approval in Croatia, while the process itself requires a significant amount of money and must spend five years in Croatia in order to gain the right to citizenship. All of these are some of the experience complaints, i.e. the problems faced by foreigners in the process of obtaining permanent residence and citizenship. They mainly state that the whole procedure is bad and long-term, and we know that in some European countries restrictions are even stricter, for example in Italy and Austria. Nationality can only be acquired after 10 years of staying in those countries. Following Croatia's entry into the European Union, an increased migration from neighbouring countries can be expected and a greater number of requests for permanent stay rights, given that Croatia will settle among countries in the European Union very desirable for life, work and long-term stay. I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to remove all obstacles to the Law on residence, the Law on the Register of Voters, the Law on the Personal ID we have discussed and some more laws, perhaps even in the documents of the migration policy they have, and obstacles to Croats outside of Croatia, Croats from BiH and Croats of the entire diaspora, and do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia so that they do not feel like foreigners by coming to their country, because, with the fact that they own property in the Republic of Croatia, they do not have the right to ID because they do not live in the Republic of Croatia. One nonsens. Why wouldn't our countrymen with a temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia from all over the diaspora have the right to an ID card and say, without entering the voter lists and without the right to vote in the local elections, and then we removed all the problems for which they were deleted, which is why they changed, etc. In principle, given all of the above, I therefore welcome the harmonisation of this law to the acquis of the European Union. The HDZ Club will support these amendments and additions to this law, but I certainly express another dissatisfaction by deleting Article 39 in the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40370	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a single replica reported. Honorable representative Melita Mulic and Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40371	I thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ club, counterpart Filipovic referred to Article 37 of the amendment and addition of this Foreign Law. This article refers to asylum seekers and those under subsidiary protection, so this article refers to those who are politically persecuted and we in the Republic of Croatia in this year have only 4 approved with asylum and 6 under subsidiary protection. So, let's say last year, there are only 35 people who have special reasons why they are in the Republic of Croatia. And when we talk about learning the Croatian language and when we're talking about the same analogy that you're applying, don't forget that the Croats are a highly evictive nation and that your logic would never integrate us into other societies like Argentina or, say, Chile or anywhere else in the world that they set the same conditions for us as you do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40372	Replica response, respected representative Ilija Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40373	So I'll say next. I have to notice that an esteemed colleague did not listen carefully to what I was saying, and at the same time I deny that this refers to this category that you were talking about. I have in front of me an article of the 97th basic law which is changed in paragraph 5, and you can see for yourself that paragraph 5 has been deleted that no one must and can be admitted to a permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia and be foreigner and that he does not need to know, he says enough to know, pass the exam. No, no. Knowledge of Croatian culture and social order. For example, I told you that it is not enough for me to know the culture of Sweden, to know that the Swedish Kingdom is in order and that at the same time, that I also know by that fact the Swedish language. So, in the same way, translate it into Croatia and the arrival of any foreigner in the Republic of Croatia. How they'll behave at all, how they get involved, how they work, how they do business, not know the language of the country they came to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40374	Thank you, too. It is up to the respected representative Boris Blažekovic on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40375	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Tonkovic and his associate, colleagues and colleagues. Let me, at the beginning, wish on behalf of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats to all, all colleagues and colleagues of Assembly representatives and parliamentary representatives, happy Day of the Croatian Parliament with a sincere desire to all work together to increase the integrity of the Assembly and to all work together to increase the reputation of ourselves, i.e. parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. I also congratulate Parliament Day on all officials and officials of the Croatian Parliament. And now something about the bill. Generally, not with their own guilt over various political, economic, social and general social opportunities, many people across the world seek refuge in countries where they were not born. Because of the search for a happy and better life, many individuals opt for frequent and life - threatening journeys, evictions from their home countries. The experiences of many emigrants throughout history, and so today's majority are traumatic. Every man is born with four natural rights, the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness. No one can take those rights away from anyone. States as organised communities, especially countries so-called Western democracies are obliged to protect such natural rights as is the case in the Croatian Constitution. Article 14 of the Constitution states: "Everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms independent of his race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education or other characteristics." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution says: "All citizens of the Republic of Croatia and foreigners are equal before courts and other state-owned bodies with public authority. Article 33 states in its first sentence: "Foreign citizen and stateless persons can receive refuge in the Republic of Croatia." Modern emigrants sought refuge and a huge hope for a better life in the richest countries of the world, including one of the EU's most desirable destinations. In a month and two days, Croatia becomes an EU component, and it is also classified as one of the most desirable destinations of various immigrants, i.e. immigrants. In the first days and months of Croatian membership in the EU, Croatia will likely be a preferred destination for transfer of immigrants to richer EU countries. In almost a few years, however, Croatia will become a desirable country for work first, but with time and for the settlement of many immigrants from various countries. That's what we need to prepare everyone from the central government to the local self-government. It would be wise to learn from the mistakes of those countries that have passed or gone through bad experiences due to inadequately treated immigration policies. The proposal to amend and supplement the Foreign Law harmonizes Croatian legislation with EU legislation. The law is complemented by a significant number of articles, but these amendments and additions make the law more complete and treats the overall problem, more systematically, more clearly and in line with the policy towards EU foreigners. EU countries have another tradition of immigration. In some countries of considerable importance. Because of the lack of understanding of the dominant authorities and the population, and because of the fear and uncertainty of immigrants, many immigrant communities are ghettoised. We are witnessing that in particular in times of economic crisis, the intolerance of the domicile population of immigrants is great, and often migrants themselves are dissatisfied with the overall, primarily material situation, causing huge riots with great material damage some time and human casualties. It would simply be wise to learn from such negative experiences by EU countries. I have already said we in HNS are confident that soon Croatia will become a particularly attractive country for work and housing. We are convinced that various industries, especially tourism and its complementary industries, will be simply forced to import a number of labour. There are also numerous artists and athletes, as well as today's young people, in their modernity, incomparably easier and with full confidence changing places for work, residences, changing countries and areas for a more pleasant and beautiful life. If we are not aware enough of the possibility of a larger inflow of foreigners in Croatia, we may end up having major problems both with xenophobia and with riots of the settlers, which can result in public riots. In total, we can all be dissatisfied with locals and immigrants because of negligence and unpreparedness. The whole society can be found in problems that are difficult and painfully derived from, so we need to educate everyone and the local authorities and the population in order to understand the needs of immigrants, and to educate immigrants to understand the domestic population, their culture and customs. Croatia has great experience with emigration. It is a huge Croatian emigration. Due to economic and political opportunities, many of our fellow citizens have emigrated in search of a better life. Unfortunately, in the past, we haven't had that kind of autonomy, the economic power to reduce our citizens' emigration to a minimum with positive measures. And their experiences could be precious to us in preparation for possible immigration waves. Croatian emigrants certainly know perfectly what problems and misunderstandings they have encountered and come across in their new life-selected countries. Surely in some areas they are not fully accepted and feel like strangers. Unfortunately, some people are foreigners in the countries where they were born, but that's another topic. People who are not born in Croatia, various immigrants must be welcome to Croatia. They must be accepted by public authorities and by citizens. In order to fully meet this, systematic preparations for this specific policy are necessary. Only with full understanding, respect and mutual respect for both foreigners and natives can all the locals and settlers enjoy the benefits of life in Croatia. With this proposal, amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners, Croatia further regulates its legislation on the issue of entry, stay, work and exit of foreigners into and from Croatia. Croatia is becoming an EU border country with a huge land but also a sea border, thus changing its position and becoming more complex and demanding. As this says in the assessment of the situation, this law removes certain shortcomings both content and nomotechnically. We in the HNS believe that, in any case, fully in accordance with the laws, the rules in first place should be human, individual and individual, and its human rights and freedoms. There are numerous examples where public authorities are at risk of life and lead them into a state of fear, uncertainty, disaster and suffering because of administrative misunderstandings and bureaucratic approaches to their citizens. We of the CNS will try to influence at all levels that all regulations and laws relating to the citizenship of foreigners of immigration policies are fully applied to the benefit of individuals, i.e. individuals, and not to administrative-burocrat experiences and xenophobic Stigmatization of members of other countries, peoples and races. This bill is one of the tools in these efforts and will therefore be accepted by the HNS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40376	Thank you, too. The Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Vuksic are next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40377	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Tonkovic and his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we talked yesterday about a set of laws in which we said that since 1.07 nothing important will change whatever laws we have passed, nothing in itself will change on the date of entry into the EU 1,07, especially in economic terms, especially in relation to the Croatian political scene. However, this law is passed, it will certainly mean essential changes on 1 July, and Croatian Labourists will support the amendment and supplementation of the Foreign Law. Because we think that that property of the EU is embedded in this law, that what is prescribed by law is acceptable, that it is humane, above all, and towards foreigners who become equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that it is humane and towards asylum seekers. However, I am warning that I think that a colleague from the SDP club has warned that we would be as humane as possible and that we should be above the average of some European countries towards asylum seekers we should appeal that we really strengthen the capacity for asylum seekers, to treat them with dignity, to enable them to be absolutely uncomfortable when they decide on a drastic move, which is to leave their homeland, often for political reasons. We remember well that case with a Turkish journalist who I think the public responded well and that politics had done its job. I think we should be more prepared for such cases and appeal to both parliamentary representatives but also to the general public to be sensitive in such cases, not to treat asylum seekers as uninvited people and treat them, to treat them as citizens equal to us in the special status in which they will be. Therefore, those who may have seen or heard or read about the accommodation of asylum seekers certainly need to improve the conditions in which they live and should be dealt with when people seek asylum in as short a time as possible. It is absolutely certain to encourage the words of members of the Croatian government when it comes to the visa regime for citizens of Turkey, Russia, Ukraine, those who should not have visas for Croatia until now, especially because of the tourism entry into Croatia, and it is not directly related to this law that they will issue visas after a brief procedure and that we will not be cruel because they would certainly endanger one of the most significant economic branches in the Republic of Croatia. I would look back a little bit on the language, there was a short controversy, I think as much as we Croatian Labourists advocated the Law on the Use of Croatian Language, that we should also not be cruel in this case. All those who wish to join Croatian society will learn Croatian, that's for sure. I agree with my colleague Mulić who said before that the Croats were famous for it, I met them from New Zealand to South and North Africa, Asia where they were that they had adapted and all those who wanted to succeed and who wanted to do serious business learned the languages of those countries or unfortunately became citizens of the second order. I only stress here the problem that arises in Croatia is that in Croatian companies in the management of companies that are registered in Croatia and are owned by foreign languages, that workers get cancellations or foreign language contracts, that even ads are published, competitions in foreign languages, but it is certainly not a question of this law. It is a question of both Croatian practices and relations between the Croatian government and the general political climate in Croatia, a kind of half-dominated that is certainly not welcome. In any case, I think this amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40378	Thank you, too. It's the SDSS club and the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40379	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Ministry's representatives. I will, on behalf of the SDSS Club, say our vision of the amendment and addition of the Foreign Law. In fact, we discussed this law a little over a year ago when the changes we're talking about here were being made, which we're analyzing. So in these basic changes, we said that there are certain problems in the category of returnees, so we introduced these changes and these improvements into Article 94 of the previous legal text, which says returnees on 10.8.In '91, which had a residence in the Republic of Croatia, users of the return programme were granted permanent status. This is very important because there have been many cases of life in practice that have had a difficult status or problems in everyday life because of this unresolved status. The returnee must today only prove that he had a residence in the Republic of 1991 and that he is in the return programme and thus acquires the possibility of permanent stay and does not have to meet the conditions laid down in Article 54(1) of point 3 and 4 of this Act. So he's got means of restraint and he's got health insurance. These are the key changes for us that have been made in the previous text for the better. This current law, i.e. the current amendments and amendments to the law, is clear that Croatia must be brought into line with these EU directives, and we believe that these amendments provide minimum standards related to the right of foreigners, which my colleagues have previously said something about. However, we think that, in a normative sense, precisely because of this harmonisation and the introduction of a number of EU directives, the law is, in a nomotechnical sense, untransparent and it is necessary to issue a very fast consolidated text for the sake of the availability of information on this important matter to all users. I will say a few examples that have emerged since the last adoption, the recent changes to this day as life situations in order to try to improve the quality of this text that we are talking about today. In the Republic of Croatia, as regards the number of foreigners according to data, and every person living in Croatia who does not have Croatian citizenship is a foreigner, lives mostly foreigners from 118 countries. Most of them are from countries in the region. So from BiH in Croatia, for example, about 13,000 628 foreigners, from the Republic of Serbia 3 thousand 540, from Slovenia 2 thousand 317, from Kosovo of 870, from Macedonia a thousand 870 people in the status of foreigners. They came to Croatia mainly on the basis of family mergers or for economic reasons, therefore, because of work. Those in the law itself as foreigners who came here or for economic reasons or for family mergers have quite administrative and bureaucratic obstacles that they must resolve to work to achieve the reasons why they came here as foreigners. We therefore believe that in this legal text, therefore, some facts should be respected in these amendments and they should be facilitated and simplified by the procedure of extending the status of their stay. When it comes to family mergers as one of the very important motives for the arrival of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, we can say the following, so when connecting family problems temporary stay extends from year to year, and with it all other documents. Let's not forget that status assumes certain documents. It is therefore a driver's license, an identity card for foreigners, etc. All this together represents one great cost for such families, especially what a stranger does not do. To find a job, he's always looking for a housekeeper, seeking citizenship, of course, strangers don't have them. If they do not work, they must prove that their spouse is working, that he has enough resources to support them, at the same time paying for health insurance themselves, which is the biggest blow to the standard of these citizens, because the parties that we remind them have to pay for compulsory health insurance of 400 kuna per month, so every month while they are in foreign status, and they have no possibility of getting hired and having some basic existence, and they have come to the Republic of Croatia for family integration. Here we have one experience to point out when it comes to the fact from security checks because in a series of things here as a premise for a certain status requires a security check carried out by the Security Intelligence Agency and the main stumbling block is that when security intelligence agencies refuse certain requirements they do so without further explanation. We point out the example of recognising the status of permanent residence in the case of two women returning from Brod, one was born in '55, and the other was born in the 1960s, these are relatively older age who received a reluctant solution due to the SOA's security clearance. It is estimated that they pose a threat to national security and the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and that nothing is justified or justified. I repeat, two women have been around for over 50 years. We note that these women were not recorded in criminal records, or were never punished. This and similar procedures point to the necessity of legal normisation and the determination of certain legal standards and criteria, which is a security threat. This is extremely important in the adoption of assessments concerning national security issues in order to exclude suspicion of self-will and protect citizens' rights, and to carry out our actions legally. Another example is the control of the way in which you conduct the way you control your permanent stay. So someone's in temporary stay and to get a permanent stay of him being controlled by the police. We have an example of a young returnee who is able to work, he was lucky to get a job as a geodetic and his job is to go around the field and whenever he's on the ground, the police come to the apartment to check if he's able and makes an assessment of how he's in no condition to question his right to keep his stay. So that's something we've been doing well, but in practice we haven't implemented in a way that wouldn't harm the users of that status. Permissions for the work of strangers. So far, a little permission has been granted for the work of strangers. We think it's 2013. The government of the Republic of Croatia only approved 329 foreign employment permits. We think that there will be much greater need after entering the European Union and therefore can be realistically expected in this sphere to move more labour from the countries of the environment, i.e. the countries of the former Yugoslavia and Eastern Europe. These are some observations about the functioning of this legal model in practice. We also have a number of concrete remarks, specifically in Article 17, which amends Article 38 of the previous law, so it is necessary to delete it because the amendments provide that the decision to refuse entry is to be taken without the hearing of foreigners in Article 17. So we think that this violates the rights of those who are incapacitated, and they are not allowed to explain their views and to give them the opportunity to express their intention, which is a very important thing in this. The second article is Article 23, which amends Article 53. It is necessary to simplify and facilitate the procedure of extending the status of the stay so that the same documents are not always submitted, and those documents required to be submitted must not be older than 6 months, such as birth certificate, non-punishment certificate, etc. So let's simplify this procedure a little bit and avoid this vast administration in achieving this status. Article 46 amending Article 107(4), to a foreigner who is illegally staying or who does not understand Croatian, it is necessary to ensure translation and thus translate the decision to leave the Republic of Croatia, so it is decided to leave the Republic of Croatia, of course, in the official language of the Republic of Croatia. The question is whether he understands all this together, so we think that in terms of some more quality legal aid or legal aid, it should ensure that these people understand the actual content of the solution given to them. And lastly, the most important article in our opinion is Article 15 of these amendments, which is definitely regulated by the new regime, which is, in the pesorative sense, the Schengen border because it is said that foreigners can be granted entry into the Republic of Croatia under the conditions of the prescribed regulation of the European Community, the number of such and that, etc., of the European Parliament, which is called the Schengen Borders Code. He will greatly determine our relations and our communication with countries in the environment. Therefore, I think that the government here should make a good strategy and the government should make maximum use of the possibilities of this law to regulate relations and that cross-border communication, the flow of goods, the flow of people with countries in the environment, of course, for economic reasons, of course, and for tourist reasons, so we talked about the development of a tourism strategy here, we talked about unused accommodation facilities. We can also count on this fact of the Schengen border if we do not adapt to real life this thing will greatly reduce the arrival of people, tourists from the countries of the environment. In addition, there is something else, which is a fact of family integration, it is a fact of family ties with people and residents from countries in the environment, and the government should take care of this matter when it makes a strategy, i.e. decisions on how to regulate the consumption of the Schengen borders. We will accept the bill, because we think that, compared to the last changes, some solutions have been made. In addition, they are adapted, likely adapted to the new circumstances that await us by joining the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40380	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of respected MPs, Melite Mulic, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40381	I thank you, Mr. President. In his presentation, Horvat referred to individual cases, i.e. concerning refusal for reasons of national security, as well as refusal to stay without a foreign hearing. I would also appeal to the Ministry of the Interior, given that last year, the Office of the Ombudsman submitted a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law and of certain articles which do not change these amendments and additions, and this is Article 5, so that the whole next whole proposal is announced, and I know that it is new in view of the new regulations and EU directives, because we will very soon change this matter again and the Foreign Law. Therefore, to comply with the Croatian Constitution, i.e. Articles 18, 19 and 26 of the Croatian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40382	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40383	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, with full support for my colleague Horvat's discussion, I would just like to highlight a real problem that we have on the ground. Namely, certain zones in Croatia that are divided or disintegrated by the former country, I would say share a certain ethnicity, which continues to rule in this sense of marriage and therefore the integration of foreigners based on family integration. So, just one natural me would say spray, there's a big problem that people who are defenders, who are married from Bosnia and Herzegovina, are environments like Gunja, Drenovac, Cettingrad have big problems having at all wives or fathers regulating their stay. That price that needs to be paid, so of course we're absolutely for law enforcement. But I also appeal to the ministry, and I appeal to local communities to try to find help in this difficult economic situation for these people, so that these legal obligations can be implemented as easily as possible. Because we have cases of mothers separating from children and deporting across borders because someone doesn't have a job and has no ability to pay for the social security provided by law. So, full support. I hope that in the next period we will find certain solutions to make life easier for all these people in this situation. Of course, the right to marriage and marriage is something that is fundamental human rights, and on this trail we will have to invest together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40384	Thank you, too. And a reply to the line, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40385	Thank you, Mr. President. So there's no need to replicate separately on either replica. That's the facts. What I'm trying to say is I'm giving the Proposer this kind of well-intentioned call, one suggestion. We in our services, as well as some NGOs involved in doing so, have many of these examples of life. And we are making ourselves available, and we are willing to help you, through these situations of life, to improve the work of the service, to bring this complex law to life. I said he's well-regulared, things are well-regulared. We went in a few changes in order to make it better. We have information that can be used for you to make this thing well arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40386	Thank you very much. We are continuing with an individual debate of representatives for 10 minutes. It's the Honorable Agent Davorin Mlakar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40387	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll do it very briefly. On behalf of the club, we have delivered an opinion on the quality of this law, but I would like to suggest something here. Teached by yesterday's experience when we didn't get adequate interpretation and the reasons for the motionor's amendments to the law on a number of issues, so I'm going to allow myself one comment. It's interesting that this is P.Z.E. The law, so that it goes according to an urgent procedure, but the team is more unacceptable than what the applicant has stated here that an emergency procedure is proposed because there is an obligation to adopt this law to comply with the EU acquis. I believe that we knew this before, so we didn't have to bring Parliament into this position to talk about the law instead of in two readings in an emergency procedure, regardless of what seems to be technical amendments to the law. I will try to suggest this to the Proposer because I think that in practice and this change will cause a lot of problems as often the amendments to the law usually do, and most often we do not have the consolidated texts of the law to know what is in force. So I'm going to be so methodologically maybe unacceptable to start from the end, from article 84 of the law. You say this law comes into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal and then goes a whole series of exceptions. In addition to Article 5, Article 41, 46, 47, 48, 49, do not list all those who enter into force on the date of accession of Croatia to the European Union. As for a month's deadline, I suggest you simplify this article 84 and write that it takes effect on the day of EU accession, so you have solved all this which really unnecessarily complicates the application of this law. And now something related to that nomochnik that cannot be silenced, and as regards Article 11, where you are talking about extending visas issued by the police administration, that is, the police station, so in Article 11(4), you are saying that the period of validity of the visa and/or the duration of the stay granted on the basis of the visa may be extended if the Ministry considers that the visa holder has provided evidence. That's what he said, I wouldn't say so far undetected in legal practice but I'm pretty sure that something that should be an exact proof you can't translate that the Ministry believes the visa holder delivered evidence. He either delivered the evidence or didn't deliver it. I therefore believe that to leave it in some jurisdiction of the Ministry to carry out its assessment of whether or not someone has supplied evidence or not simply favours legal uncertainty, I suggest you place an excuse instead that the Ministry has determined that the visa holder has supplied evidence, and that it is in fact that it has provided evidence that there is a higher power or some humanitarian reason to prevent that visa holder from leaving the territory of the Republic of Croatia before the expiry of the period of validity or the duration of stay of an approved visa. It's in itself like this except that it's indelicate I think I'm going to use the mild terms of an insufficient logical explanation. So no one has to extend the visa before its approved stay expires. So if someone asks for special reasons to be granted a stay and after the visa has expired, that is, the ministry will have the opportunity to extend the visa to him only if this previous visa has expired, and not before the period of the visa expires. So I suggest that you also change in Article 11(4) exactly what it says about force majeure, the existence of more force or humanitarian reasons because while the visa covers the duration of stay of that person in the Republic of Croatia there is no reason but to extend that visa in advance if the circumstances preventing the return of a person to another country can stop for the duration of that visa. Nomotechnically, the last objection concerns a number of expressions in this law, applies to Article 25, which is amended in Article 64, because if you have already predicted that some of the reasons can be sought or hindered by staying in the Republic of Croatia, if you say that it is approved for temporary stay due to scientific research, then you must consistently carry them out and always talk about scientific research, rather than changing them in other terms than in certain items, as is the case in Article 25(4). The persons receiving the temporary stay must also prove that they have, or write if they have the means to abstain and do not pose such persons a danger to public order, national security and public health. If they are already presumed to have the means to abstain then it would be logical to prescribe that they must, by their statement, confirm that they have the means to abstain so that they do not fail to fall as far as I understand the burden of state budget funds, their stay in the Republic of Croatia. So if you're asking them to have certain means, it's going through the law in multiple places, then they should probably make some kind of written statement about it. There you go. That's it. And I hope you might fix that text before the law is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40388	Thank you very much. Your Honor, two replicas have been reported. The first replica and respected representative Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40389	Thank you. I will, in principle, agree in my replica with the basic tone on which my colleague, Mlakar, referred to, agreed on when it comes to the consolidated text of the law. In fact, it is a very complex matter that will be widely applied and will be increasingly needed after 1 July, i.e. the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. I have also appealed to the Committee on Human Rights, to the Committee on Legislative Affairs, and to this occasion and to the Ministry of the Interior, therefore, given what is coming to us that I think we need both nomotechnically and in any other way, so that it clears the law that we will be able to read in an integrated form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40390	Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. And you want to answer? Here you go. ... So how are you going to answer? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, buddy. Here, you have a reply to the replica. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't want to take the time, but I really didn't get the line, at least according to what we've been defined as representatives of the opposition in Parliament when we replicate what our replica is. I have only understood that we agree that this law can be better arranged nomotechnically before it is passed, if I understand my colleague correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40392	So there could be support on the other hand, why, everything's fine. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40393	Dear colleague Mlakar, I will once again read the replica before and comment from the scene. Therefore, there should be no controversy of replicas and it is not essentially that. Here, I'm giving you the same support. First of all, I agree with you when you were talking about an emergency procedure. Harmonising with the acquis, the EU should not mean that there should be an emergency procedure if we have time, and I agree with that, too, which is why it would be logical for the law to enter into force 1.7.i means we had time for another reading and to fix all these things that you said in the law. Well, one question I don't know who can, if I don't, I'm going to put it in writing, does that mean that after 1.7, we're going to pass all the laws according to an emergency procedure, I don't get it? Why is compliance with the EU acquis a mandatory emergency procedure? I don't get it. What do we do next means everything will be urgent? I guess it's gonna be an emergency and the economy is going to grow, everything's going to be what they say in the ravine of the shots. I agree, therefore, that the law should enter into force 1.7. And there is still time to fix these things that you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40394	Thank you, too. Yet the answer to the replica of the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40395	I'm sorry. I have to say, I agree with you now, though I'm replicating. The possibility of doing business is absolutely used, because we are in line with EU legislation, I suppose, too, that the Proposer will also say the Rules of Procedure allow you to offer all such laws according to an urgent procedure, but does not condition that we give them an urgent procedure if we think that because of some legal certainty and in the extreme line of public notice of obligations under certain laws there is sufficient time to adopt them in a regular procedure, which would actually save the government from constant criticism that something is trying to bring about why there is no serious need, and no business reasons. In one case, I did not want to talk about it quotes Article 150. The Rules of Procedure here 161. And we're not sure what is the correct article of the law that speaks of an emergency procedure. but other than all other laws for which there was no reason to be brought by an emergency procedure, this at least has formal coverage in the Rules of Procedure. However, I believe that it would be simpler and more qualitative for all of us to prepare for discussion if such laws went into regular procedure. I'm afraid to believe what we're going to get next week for debate at the Parliament by emergency procedure, given that the date of accession is getting closer and closer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40396	Thank you very much. We need to give an explanation, namely colleagues and colleagues here who are in several terms aware that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Emergency for European Laws as we say in the jargon stand for many years. The applicant shall decide on the urgency of the procedure in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Secondly, as regards the conduct of the Croatian Parliament with the proposals for EU acts after EU membership, we are only now in line with the law and the Rules of Procedure, so this provision will not be automatically transposed into the new Rules of Procedure. It's just for the public's sake. I know you know that, but it's for the public. There's a respected colleague of myrrela holy's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40397	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, at the very beginning, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act and in my debate I will not talk about the matter which has been processed in this bill but about what is not being processed, and what I think is important to process in the next amendments to the Foreigners Act that we are about to do. In fact, I have been contacted by a number of people who are in a relationship, meaning homosexual couples regardless of whether they are lesbian couples or gay couples who have a registered partnership or a marriage community of same-sex partners that are concluded in EU countries or in other countries, and given the fact that in Croatia we still have no regulated status of such relationships, and I hope that we will have recently passed a law on registered partnership, and people are in pretty big problems in situations where they come to live in Croatia. So it's about partners where one person is a Croatian citizen, and the other person is a foreigner. You know that regulation towards marriage is something different, however, these people are now under the law on foreigners in very big problems, and therefore I appeal to the MUP when it makes a new proposal for the Law on Foreigners, or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, which will certainly happen upon Croatia's entry into the EU to pay attention to this extremely important issue in order to resolve the status and such persons, and I hope that our legislation will also follow the practice of a large number of European states that have regulated relations between same-sex partners so that we may be discussing the law on registered partnership and in the Croatian Parliament before the summer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40398	Thank you very much. One replica of the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40399	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, actually, my replica goes in terms of both the one part and the support of this really short debate that my colleague Holly had, and since you've been talking about something that you'd like to be regulated in those future changes, we're hoping maybe some brand-new foreign law. There is something else that we have also talked about on the Committee on National Security, but unfortunately, the Committee's report does not mention it, and these amendments and additions to that matter are not proposed as a specific supplement, but I, in some ways, suggest that, when they are doing this new Foreign Law, they pay attention to the part that applies to Articles 82, 83, 84, or 85, where, among other things, they speak about issuing licences up to 60 days, or up to 30 days, from which part is very simplified, which I fully support. Therefore, Article 85(3), which states that foreigners who perform in the Republic of Croatia in sports events and competitions as representatives of foreign teams, clubs or national teams, does not apply paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article and Article 84 of this Law. It is therefore completely simplified to obtain permission and to register their stay in Croatia. I appeal to consider that certain other manifestations, musical, cultural, so something in which it will go in the widest direction and all activities will be covered, but I am primarily talking here about cultural events, music events and competitions, which are mainly attended by young people, therefore young people. I see no reason why this kind of remark should not be included in the much simpler acquisition and provision of stay in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40400	Thank you, too. Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Holly Mirel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40401	Dear fellow Sobol, I support this proposal of yours or initiative because I believe that the same rules of the game should apply to everyone and if athletes have such opportunity or at this time the privilege of extending this possibility to all other people who come to Croatia for such a type of work and I really hope that the Ministry of Interior in amendments to the law or in the new law on foreigners that we will discuss after Croatia enters the European Union, and this proposal that colleague Sobol has now made.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40402	Thank you very much. The final address of respected Evelin Tonkovic, deputy interior minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40403	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I would like to say just two short words to my fellow parliamentary deputies and MPs. It was mentioned that the erasure of Article 5 97, which prescribed the obligation to attend the Croatian language course, was required. Foreigners in the process of acquiring permanent stay and must further prove the knowledge of Croatian language, Latin script and Croatian culture and social order, but now he does not have to go to the course but is on them whether Croatian language and culture will learn on their own or go to the course. However, for the sake of clarification, knowledge of Croatian language, culture and social order, the stranger now proves by filling out questionnaires in police administration or station. So he will meet, he has certain questions that ask a number of questions and answers will be evaluated and therefore it will be concluded whether he meets certain conditions. As for the question of whether the asylum system will be ready when the Republic of Croatia joins the EU, we are all limited by some material frameworks, but the Ministry of Interior, or the Croatian Government, has already made full efforts to ensure the functioning of the asylum system so that we go prepared to the European Union. You can always do better, everything in life can be better and you can do better and we need it and we will aim to enable all people, foreigners, asylum seekers and others to be more quality accommodation and other conditions, but we are always determined by something called money. Just for the sake of clarification, we have, even at this moment, made it possible for our funds from our budget to be from the home 120 accommodations in Kutina, today in Kutina we have the capacity of accommodation up to 600 seekers, asylum seekers, and we have also trained the shelter in Zagreb. However, these are appropriate conditions. I say you can always do better, and we'll work on it. The moment that is approaching us, we will use not only the state budget to improve these conditions, but also the use of European funds, specifically the Asylum and Migration Fund, for the period 2014-2020. The funds of the fund, which are strictly dedicated, will help to further raise those objectives that our colleague has said. And help to make it more quality and even better and, unfortunately, to those people in conditions in which they are still living with dignity and contentment. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40404	Thank you, too. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will now stop working in the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, schedule an extension of this session on June 5th this year, Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on crafts. And tomorrow's a national holiday, but it's not about that and the day of the Croatian Parliament. The reception at the Croatian Parliament is at 12 o'clock, I hope you will be there to congratulate you and the citizens of the Day of the Croatian Parliament. I'll see you on Wednesday 5 June at 9.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40405	We move to a vote on the debated items of the agenda. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Act is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 363. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments have been submitted, we have several applicants of the amendment and you have been given a table of amendments. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to come to the pay phone. Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Let's get the amendment table. Amendment No 1 of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40406	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40407	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No 2 of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40408	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40409	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No 3 of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system referred to in Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40410	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40411	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to Article 23
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40412	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40413	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40414	Article 23 of the Proposed Act amending and supplementing the Foreign Law extends the period from 30 to 60 days in which the party is obliged to apply for an extension of the temporary stay. It is also explicitly prescribed that the police department, or police station, is required to resolve the request for an extension of the temporary stay within that deadline. In this section relating to the work of foreigners, Article 69 and 70 of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreigners is explicitly prescribed that the State Inspectorate will not take measures against employers and foreigners found in illegal work unless the police administration or police station has within the legal time limit resolved its request for extension within the prescribed time limit. In that case, neither the measure prohibiting the exercise of activity nor the fines will be imposed. It follows that in the proposal for a law in amendments to the Act on Foreigners, the regulated matter to which the proposed amendment applies is not accepted. We also point out that the adoption of this amendment in the proposed form could lead to the abuse of that institute by parties participating in the procedure in such a way as to deliberately delay the implementation of the non-response procedure, not to respond to official calls and such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40415	Thank you. I ask the representative of the amendment's proposal to be made manifest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40416	As I understand it, the promoter tells us that the amendment of one working body, one committee, could lead to the abuse of the law-scheduled institute. I have to say that our committee is specific to one kind of relationship with committees. And having a relationship with committees like that, like they're gone. The committees shall be chaired in the appropriate proportions of the representatives of all parties. So I'd like to pray in the future that everyone, not only applies to this novice who doesn't listen to me right now, I'd like to ask that all legislators pay proper attention. Especially now when we are entering Europe and when we see how in the European Parliament, what is the relationship in the European Parliament towards committees. Let's be a little more serious about the committees, let's put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40417	I am voting on amendments to the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities to Article 23 which the Government does not accept. Is that for the amendment proposed? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Deputy, go ahead. Amendment No. 5. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall, on Article 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40418	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40419	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. Six. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in Article 38
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40420	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40421	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. Seven. The Club of Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40422	It's unacceptable. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40423	Explanation yes, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40424	Article 38 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on foreigners is more precisely determined to regulate the permanent stay of a child living in the Republic of Croatia and both or one of his parents at the time of his birth to stay in the status of an approved permanent stay. It is important that parents have a permanent stay at the time of birth and a legal provision for facilitating the status of the child from the birth and continuation of life in the Republic of Croatia for children living in the Republic of Croatia under favourable conditions. As regards the proposal that the relevant status of parents is at the time of application, we point out that if a parent or parents has an approved permanent stay, it means that they have stayed in the Republic of Croatia for at least 5 years. It also implies that his or her underage children also lived with him at least together in the territory of the Republic of Croatia at that time. Based on which the children also regulated the temporary stay, which is later a condition for obtaining permanent stay. In practice, the most common case is that parents who apply for themselves to regulate permanent stay based on five years of stay in the Republic of Croatia on the same request include their underage children living with them in the Republic of Croatia. In this way parents and children together regulate a permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia based on a legal stay of 5 years, a permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of this proposed amendment could lead to the abuse of a permanent stay institute if children who only because of the fact that their parents or parents have an approved permanent stay that only come to the Republic of Croatia in a more favourable and much easier way are granted permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia without the conditions of prior stay and status regulation in the Republic of Croatia. We note that the amendment by the Committee on Human Rights and the national minorities has been deleted from the provisions that prescribed the acquisition of a permanent stay of a child if they are parents or parents of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40425	Thank you. There are no representatives of the amendment, so I am putting the amendment to the vote. Who is the amendment of the Club of Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS representative to Article 38, which the Government does not accept? Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 8. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be adopted in accordance with Article 61 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40426	It's partially accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40427	You have to give an explanation to see which part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40428	In a way that the words "appeal" are added behind the word "within 15 days of the day of delivery of the decision in order to make the deadline for appeal in accordance with the provisions of the bill". The amendment in that section shall not be accepted to add the words set out in paragraph 2 of this Article as proposed. Since the provision of Article 141a, paragraph 3 already contains the words "police" behind and the words "police station", the words referred to in paragraph 2 of this article, so it is clear which decision it refers to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40429	I'd like a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40430	We accept the argument, I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40431	Then, the amendment is accepted in changed form and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. Nine. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40432	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40433	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. Ten. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40434	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40435	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment No. 11. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40436	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40437	It becomes an integral part of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40438	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-29-0.u40439	Thank you, Deputy. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the law has been passed by 114 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
