ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47566	Dear colleagues from the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, welcome to the autumn meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. Please settle down so we can move on to the ceremony. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and present ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would also like to welcome the guests at the gallery, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, to pay tribute at the beginning of the fall session of the Parliament to the country's performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland". - I invite you all to pay tribute to the defenders for my country and all civilian war victims, of course with a minute of silence. - A minute of silence - Let them be eternal glory and thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, you received the minutes of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Please have any objections to the record? I find that there are no objections, so we have adopted the minutes of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. We are moving to determine the agenda of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included 15 new points in the final draft agenda: 1.A report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, 2.A proposal for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the cross-border cooperation programme of Croatia-BiH under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2012, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 462. 3. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Croatia-Montenegro Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2012, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 460; 4, Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Croatia-Serbia cross-border cooperation programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2012, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 463; 5, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia-Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2013, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 465; 6, Proposal for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Croatia-Montenegro Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2013, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 464; 7, Proposal for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Croatia-Serbia cross-border cooperation programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2013, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 461; 8, Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia; 9, Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning, First Reading, P.Z. No. 466; 10, Proposal for a Construction Act, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 457; 11, Proposal for a construction inspection law, first reading, P.Z. No. 468; 12, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing and delirious the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 469; 13, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Theatres, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 470; 14, Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2013 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on amending fiscal rules for the first half of 2013 and 15, Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Dear colleagues and colleagues, based on Article 205. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. I note that, in an emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of laws bearing the code of the PZE, no vote shall be taken, in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. These are the laws under heading 4, 5, paragraphs 15 to 18 and points 20 and 21 of the final draft agenda. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under headings 3, 7, 14, 19 and 27 to 34 are proposed. I don't think you should read the names of those dots again. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Thank you very much. No, I'm sure he doesn't. That's how we determined the emergency procedure. We have a written objection to the draft agenda, which I sent with a call for the session, submitted by the Club of Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and Croatian Civil Party Representatives, in terms of the order of the proposed points. The Club of Representatives requests that the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union, the Proposer of the Club of Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS Representative, first reading, PZ No. 458, move between the first 10 points of the agenda. I'd like to make a statement about the club's proposal by voting. Who's in favor of the motion? I'll do it again. The written objection to the agenda of the Club of Honored Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS MPs to the first reading of the law of the PZ No. 458 moves between the first 10 points of the agenda. Who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the proposal has not been accepted because the proposal has been voted by 52 MPs and against the proposal of 83 MPs. Thank you very much. Other written objections to the draft agenda were not made to the call for today's session of the Assembly in accordance with Article 225(3). Rules of Procedure. This is considered to be the order of the agenda. In accordance with Article 225, say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47567	Your Honor, Mr. President, what you have now said is that the agenda has been established has been violated by article 128 of this new Rules of Procedure. I'll read it for the sake of understanding the problem. Paragraph 1 states: "The Prime Minister shall, once a year, at the beginning of the second regular session of the Assembly in accordance with Article 217(1) of this Rules of Procedure, formally present to the Parliament the annual report of the Government in which he will report to the Parliament on the observed phenomena, problems and state of society as well as the activities of the Government." Our public is well aware of the government's activities. The MPs also followed the government's activities and given the state of the country and the state of our policy, it is clear to us that the Prime Minister may not be able to talk about this topic today and the government's report. But it's also not possible for an annual report from the government to be found under the 26th item of the agenda of this session. It had to be carried out at the beginning of the session. Maybe we'd better not hear anything from the Prime Minister about the annual report. But we plead when you have already changed the rules in this way, that, finally, in this meeting, the Parliament begins to work legally in accordance with its Rules of Procedure and that this point that you have entered against our remarks that it is neither the place nor the time for such speeches of the Prime Minister nor that he has that function regardless of all the objections it has become an integral part of the Rules of Procedure, so when it is already the legal obligation of the Prime Minister we invite you to then execute it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the beginning of the session, we understand that term to mean it now. You've already received translations from foreign languages, which means a certain termology. This termology is clear to all, it is written in Croatian. There is no need for special translations, but be sure to stick to the Rules of Procedure and act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47568	Thank you, too. The first order of the agenda was established, I probably dropped this order. Therefore, the agenda has not yet been established, and therefore there is no basis for objecting. Okay. I said it in order. Secondly, as far as the beginning is concerned, we are not in the interpretation, nor does the Rules of Procedure require. The report was announced on Tuesday and we'll start with that. I think it is in the interest of both the Parliament and the Croatian citizens to begin this report on the second week of the fall session of the Parliament. We consider that an opportunistic and we stay at it and I don't think we've hurt the Rules of Procedure because it's not in the beginning. And now please, in accordance with Article 225(4). The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda on the call for a session. Does any of the MPs have an objection to the inclusion in the agenda – Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning, first reading, P.Z. No. 466. Third, Proposal for a Law on Construction, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 467. Fourth, Proposal for a Law on Construction Inspection, First Reading, P.Z. No. 468. Fifth, Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2013. And a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2013. And the sixth, report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47569	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you have broken the Rules of Procedure twice in a few minutes. First of all, after the speech of Mr. Mlakar about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you should have asked him if, if he would, instruct him to seek an explanation of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Since you did not ask that question, I am announcing on behalf of the club that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will seek an indication of this proposal because I think that if we have brought a new Rules of Procedure, if we take an arbitrary interpretation of its provisions, it will take us somewhere else, and with the change of this Rules of Procedure you have assured us that you want to raise the quality of the work of this Parliament. Because I don't think anyone in this House is in the best interest of the Rules of Procedure being broken. So, since you didn't ask me on behalf of the club, I announce that we're going to be looking for a board of directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47570	Thank you very much for your help. The answer is the same, so I can repeat you now. You may refer to my position a request to the competent working body that, did I make a mistake. Thank you very much. Any objections to these proposed agenda points? There isn't. The agenda has been established by colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda by reading all points of the agenda. If you'll let me do this, I shouldn't. No need? Thank you very much. I propose that colleagues and colleagues move to the current morning, to ask the Government, or to an individual member or minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Articles 132 to 139. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the current morning is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47571	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since the HDZ Club has made certain remarks, I believe that you should have put this draft agenda to the vote because it is evident from our debate that we are against this proposed agenda, and you realize that the agenda has been adopted. You could have come to terms with the opposition of the HDZ Club. Since you didn't vote, we're asking that this agenda be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47572	Your esteemed colleague, you did not comment on any item of the agenda, so I had to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with your point of view, conclude that the agenda was established. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] The Chair of the Committee on Legislatives shall inform the members of the Committee that today, on 20 September of this year, after 12.00 hours of voting at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, it will continue the 59th session of the Legislative Committee in the Chamber of the Ivan Kukuljevic (Advocacy Club) with the agenda as the members of this committee have received it in their call for a session. Respected board president Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. And notice, we inform members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction that the 22nd session of this committee will be held on 24 September of this year at 13.30 p.m. on the agenda according to the invitation. Can we determine the state of MPs and advocates in the assembly? Number, number of MPs and MPs. 107, we have enough to decide on all the points of the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues under Article 226 of the Rules of Procedure I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda of the Croatian Parliament with the following points: 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT OF EXTERNAL BUSINESS LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 472, 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE State Commission FOR THE CONTROL OF THE PUBLIC PROGRAMME, WITH THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 474, 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE Government of the Republic of Croatia that regulations are governed by certain questions from the work of the Croatian Parliament, with the final proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 475, 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE FUNDS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CROATIA AND THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION CONCERNING THE "IPA OF THE SLOVEN-CROSS COOPERATION PROGRAMME – CROATIA" IN THE framework of THE PRE-STRUMENTAL AID, WITH THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAWS, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 476, 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON CONCERNING PROTOCOLS CONCERNING THE AMENDMENT ON CONFORMITY CONCERNED TO COOPERATION IN CONCERNING CORRUCTION BY THE SOUTH EUROPE INITIATION, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, EMERGENCY, FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 473, 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE COMPLETE OF THE LOCAL AND COUNTRY LAW (REGIONAL) OF Self-GOVERNMENT - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers - Party of Work, First Reading, P.Z. No. 471, 1. PROPOSING A CONCLUSION ON THE PROBLEM OF POSITION OF BALANCE POSITIONS IN THE City of Vukovar AND APPLICATION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL LAW ON THE RIGHTS OF NATIONAL MANAGEMENTS - Proposers of 1/3 of Croatian Parliament 8. The opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System on the basis of the request of an agent to give an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for acts of these points of the agenda has been received. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The rules of procedure are laid down firstly to decide on a proposal for individual laws to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to an emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47574	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I express my disagreement and deep disappointment with the government's behaviour. If by 1.07, we had to discuss some laws as P.Z. by the end of the negotiations. under the urgent procedure of the structure itself, so to say these laws proposed in the agenda simply do not impose an emergency procedure but unfortunately demonstrates another underestimating attitude of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards parliamentary representatives. Because all these agenda points could have been proposed long ago, could have been discussed at this session in two readings because you know well that according to the Rules of Procedure it can be done, but this is one rape of law-making and then again after a month these laws change. We don't see any reason for that, and I sincerely hope that we will break up with this practice and that all the laws that we can discuss in two readings. But I'm saying in agreement, we can agree to have two readings at the same session, there's no problem with that. But this is simply one underestimating relationship between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47575	Are you asking for a vote on urgency? Okay. [[Intruder Shucker: Yes.]] We are going in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all the laws we have an objection to must be decided in the Croatian Assembly on an emergency procedure. We're going to vote on an emergency procedure. We've got quorum, we've got it. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending the Foreign Affairs Act, P.Z. No. 472. Please raise your hand. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. We can get a score. I find that the majority of votes are 80 votes in favour, 34 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Foreign Affairs of P.Z. No. 472. Second, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, P.Z. No. 474. Please raise your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. We can get a score. I find that most of the vote 79 votes to, 36 votes against on the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, P.Z. No. 474. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament, P.Z. No. 475. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. We can get a score. I find that the majority of votes 80 votes in favour of, 35 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament, P.Z. No. 475. Fourthly, who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the framework of the Act on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA programme of cross-border cooperation Slovenia – Croatia" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 476. Please raise your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. We can get a score. I find that the majority of the vote is 80 votes in favour, 35 votes against the agenda according to the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. No. 476. Fifthly, who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol which amends and complements the Memorandum of Understanding concerning Cooperation in countering corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 473. Please raise your hand to confirm the urgency of the procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. We can get a score. I find that most of the vote 81 votes in favour, 35 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the P.Z. Protocol. No. 473. Do any of the MPs have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There is. Dear Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47576	We have no objection to agenda points, but we suggest that this electronic voting system be corrected as soon as possible. We do not doubt the quality and ability of Mr. Marić but this flash vote by Marić, Marić we are protecting but we are looking for repairs, yet there is no point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47577	As for your proposal, they would say knock on the open door, so... I think a new system will be installed at the winter stop of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. It's my sincere wish. It is also our sincere desire to send as few draft laws as possible to the Croatian Parliament, and we have already agreed, it is going slowly. With this, we have completed the agenda. My colleagues and colleagues can we sit in places to determine what we eat we have enough MPs to decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Can we get the state of representatives and representatives by number in the Croatian Parliament? Thank you very much. We've got enough MPs and deputies to decide all things. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues pursuant to Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 480, 2. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE FUNDS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CROATIA AND THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION CONCERNING THE "IPA PRE-CRONTARY PROGRAMME OF CROATIA – CROATIA" IN THE framework OF THE PRE-STRUMENTAL AID, WITH THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAW, EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 482, 3. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE FUNDS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CROATIA AND THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION ON THE "IPA PROGRAMME OF THE JADRANK PRE-BORDER COOPERATION" IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE PRE-STRUMENTAL AID, WITH THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 481, 4. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON Putting OUT OF THE STRAIGHT OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPROVAL OF THE LAW ON COURT COOPERATION IN CRIME THINGS WITH THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAW - PROPOSERS of 1/3 of the Croatian Assembly, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 477, 5. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE INSPECTION OF ROAD TRANSPORT AND ROAD, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 478, 6. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW FOR TRANSPORT PERSONS, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 479, 7. Report on the work of the State Department of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 YEAR, - applicant of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia 8. PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE SOLVING OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE CROATIAN Radiotelevision – Proposer of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament, 9. A report of the Mandatarian-Immunity Trust. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt individual laws by an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And now I ask the question, do any of the MPs have any objections to the urgency of the procedure in passing the other proposed laws? Yeah. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47579	Your Honor, Mr. President. Of course, the order has changed slightly compared to the terms that the laws were sent to the procedure, but here I would have advocated, given that the law under regular number 4. should certainly have a P.Z.E. code. like he's wearing this under regular number one. It is about this famous Law of Judicial Cooperation that we propose, regardless of what is now the proposed addition of the agenda, that we bring these two points together when the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47580	So there are no objections to the urgency of the procedure. Thank you very much. Yes, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47581	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As regards the first law proposed by the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU countries, I object to an explanation why the law is being sent to the emergency procedure. Namely, it says here that the law is sent into emergency proceedings for reasons of compliance with EU rules. Falsely, the law should be brought into line with what was agreed in 2010 and signed in 2011. And I certainly expect that the bill submitted by my club, and I am sorry that my colleague Mlakar did not mention it, also has the treatment and that the debate is brought together with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47582	Thank you, too. It was not an observation on the agenda, but on the content of the law, and that is what we will do when it comes to the agenda. There are no objections to the urgency of the procedure of the proposed agenda points. And once again, I would like to say that according to the Rules of Procedure, it is envisaged that the proposals of the law should also be given the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since there are no objections to the urgency of the procedure in accordance with the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we do not vote on urgency, but we believe that this establishes the agenda as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47583	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. We have a proposal from the government to conduct a united debate on three agenda points. These are the proposal for a law on spatial planning, a proposal for a law on construction and a proposal for a law on construction inspection. Is there anyone who would object to this united debate? No, then... You have, I'm sorry, I haven't seen you. Here you go. Mr. Vice-President, given this, the exhibition to say so with the agenda by both the Parliament and the Government Presidency, we do not agree to a united debate and we ask that all points be discussed specifically for the reason that we consider these three very important laws and do not deserve to be discussed with them at all this evening, unitedly, only so much order to be discussed and then voted on Friday. Therefore, we do not accept on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. The second thing, if you're already asked as was the proposal at these nine points, then it's time to consult among the clubs and I think that no problem is as we agreed, and here you saw from this last agenda point that everything can be arranged. However, since no one has spoken to us, no one has suggested such a thing, so we respect the time of Madam Minister but I also ask that some things be respected. We don't accept a united debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47586	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We're continuing to work in the plenary session. Please determine the presence of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. We have a sufficient number of representatives present in the hall so that we can make the right decision. So on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA programme - part of the IPA Assistance in Transition and Strengthening Institutions for 2012, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 483, 1. Final draft law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, CZ No. 420, 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, first reading, PZE No. 488, 1. Proposal for a law on associations, first reading, PZ No. 485, 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 486, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act for the period of unemployment, first reading, PZ No. 487, 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in the field of witness protection, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 484, 1. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Research Commission for the determination of facts related to the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic – Proposers of 50 SDP MPs, 1. Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2012. You've received suggestions from these acts. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure which determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an emergency procedure, so I ask if any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47587	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We at the HDZ Club think there is no reason for the item under the regular number 5 of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, with the final proposal of the law, to be followed by an urgent procedure. I think this is a very important point, starting with what kind of imbalance it creates in the budget the difference between income and expenditure on this point, and the other thing it gets into other things. We think that because of the importance of this point, it would be good to discuss it in two readings, so let these two readings be within the session of one session, but at least to have the opportunity to discuss that item twice on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47588	Okay. Next is Honorable Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47589	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, the HDSSB Club also opposes an emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. It is an important law for him to go into emergency procedures, not only for today's pensioners but also for those who will retire soon under this new law. Such a law must therefore go into at least two readings and therefore we feel that there is no excuse for such an important subject to an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47590	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47591	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We also oppose the inclusion of this item on the agenda, so the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act in an emergency procedure for countless reasons, so also for the stability of the state, because of the stability of the budget, are too important and political and every other topic. So please yes, it's one of those laws that we should sometimes decide to go into three readings if necessary and if necessary to achieve as much consensus as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47592	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47593	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I propose that the debate on amendments to the Pension Insurance Act be held in two readings, which are also subject to business conditions because this session runs until December 15th and we can conduct two readings at the same session because amendments to the law are not only regulated by the status of current pensioners but also by future changes in the conditions of the right to pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47594	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we will declare an urgent procedure on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, with the final proposal for a law, paragraph 5 of the proposed agenda. Please state who is in favour of an emergency procedure in accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour and 39 votes against, in the agenda of the emergency procedure, the Law on the Supplements of the Pension Insurance Act, PZ No. 486. Thank you very much. Does any of the MPs have an objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? Yeah. Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47595	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club opposes inclusion in the agenda of item 8. Proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts related to the murder of Stjepan Djurekovic. We think this is the worded point, in fact, that it leads us in the direction that we deal with things that are within the jurisdiction of the court. So this is, in our opinion, the jurisdiction of the judicial authority to determine the facts relating to the murder of Stjepan Djurekovic, and we believe that there is no way to establish committees on the matter of which the court proceedings are being conducted. So, this formulation suggests that we will be dealing with exactly that, so that there is no misunderstanding that HDZ does not want to discuss these issues. So we're suggesting we didn't arrive unfortunately because we just recently received a written proposal to expand the agenda. So we're asking for this point to be removed from the agenda at this point, and we're going to give a formula that's going to be broader and we're going to propose a commission that will deal with the circumstances of the conduct of various crimes at the time of the communist period.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47596	Thank you very much. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and on this case, we must declare ourselves in the Croatian Parliament. Please state who is the proposed item of the agenda as proposed by 50 representatives of the Croatian Parliament? Thank you very much. Who's against such a proposal? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 92 votes in favour and 28 votes against the accepted proposal of a group of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and the item of the agenda is established. Dear MPs and respected MPs have completed the inclusion of agenda points in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. But before that, respected colleagues and colleagues on the basis of Article 226. I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament with the following points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 490. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on Defence Cooperation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 489. Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and the amendment and addition of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court relating to the crime of aggression, the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 491. And fourthly, the proposal for a candidate to elect an information commissioner. Suggestions from these acts, you've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt individual laws by an urgent procedure. Does he have any objections to this proposal? Yes, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47598	Mr President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I comment on the inclusion of the urgent procedure of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education with the final proposal of the Law. Since it is an extremely important law, given that this is a major challenge and I can even say a diametric conflict of opinion in the public, given that the academic community wrote a letter to you, we believe that because of the future of our children, we simply have to allow the Croatian public, as well as representatives of this House to discuss these amendments to the law in two readings because we see no reason for anyone to put it on their noses right now in an urgent procedure. So there is enough time left until the end of the year for the law to be passed and even until the budget is passed if it has any financial implications. So we suggest that an emergency procedure be removed and it goes into two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47599	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47600	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Also, we don't think you should go into emergency procedures. As I recall, we recently changed it, and at the end of the session in July, it seems to me. Therefore, if there was a need for something very urgent, it should have been introduced less than three months ago. So I suggest this bill goes into regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47601	Thank you, too, for your esteemed MPs and your esteemed representative. In order not to guess, we will make a decision by the usual vote. I ask MPs and advocates who is in favour of passing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education of P.Z. by an urgent procedure. No. 490? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes for and 28 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education of P.Z. No. 490. The other proposed items of the agenda did not have any comments. Do any of the MPs have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposal of the candidate for election of the Commissioner for Information? I don't think so. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues the agenda is complemented. Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs good morning. We continue at the plenary session and first to check that we have quorum, enough MPs in the assembly. We have enough present, enough MPs and representatives to be able to decide on all points of the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission 2. Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Proposer of 34 MPs in the Croatian Parliament 3. Proposal for a Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 492, Proposer of 32 MPs in the Croatian Parliament 4. Proposal for a Decision on the opening of a national referendum, a proposal for a Committee on the Constitution, a Rules of Procedure and a political system of the Croatian Parliament 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 494 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the House Savings Act and promoting state housing savings, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 495 7. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 450 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 498 9. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Compensation Fund, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 496 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 497 11. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on compulsory health insurance with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 493 12. Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, Proposer of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports 13. Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2012 14. Report by the representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights for 2012 15. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012. You've received suggestions from these acts. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt individual laws by an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This is the law listed under point 10 of the proposed addition of the agenda. Do any of the MPs have any objections to an emergency procedure when adopting other proposed laws? Yes, he does. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47603	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues therefore again testify that the Government of the Republic of Croatia simply rapes certain things and does not want to function as provided for by this Rules of Procedure. I see no reason why the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement with the final proposal for a law would be found at the hearing in this House of Commons on an urgent procedure. For the simple reason it's not good for these laws to come into effect somewhere in some lame time. So it's logical that they enter into force either in 1.01 or in 1.07. It doesn't make sense that they get into other times. So, if that's the case, then there's time for this law to be discussed in two readings, the more we learned from the media that it's not some kind of benign change, but the changes that are going to have a major impact tomorrow on how budget money and taxpayers' money will be spent. We therefore believe that this law should go into two readings, so to normal procedure. We're looking for a vote on that. And we have one more remark. Shall we go after the vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47604	You can do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47605	Also, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the State aid Act with a final draft law, an emergency procedure. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, we have witnessed how many times we are here politically fighting who, when, who has been giving support and who has not given support under what conditions, and in the end you have had the opportunity to hear from here the State Secretary and actually Deputy Minister and Deputy Minister of crafts and entrepreneurship as they speak about support in the economy and we again on our noses, we want to pass the law. I don't see why you wouldn't go in two readings, we have enough time until 15.12 to discuss it because it's illogical for a law like this to come into force somewhere in the middle of the month, the logical thing would be to get into effect 1.1. The second thing is that we have before us a budget for next year and a logical thing if this law is to be passed there is time to adopt by 15.12. that the provisions of both laws are practically incorporated into the budget. So we're asking for a vote on this law as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47606	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47607	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I object to all the laws proposed in the emergency procedure but I particularly insist on the proposal to amend and supplement public procurement laws. In fact, the proposal lowers the criteria for public procurement, and the fact is that even so far the criteria that we have sought to strengthen through this law are now unfortunately being reduced. So I suggest, Mr. President, that if we do anything else to remove the emergency procedure for this particular law, we should take a good look at everything that the government is suggesting and suggesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47608	Thank you very much, Your Honor. There are no other calls. Now we're going to approach the decision on the urgency of the procedure. 1. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, P.Z. No. 494. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes by 79 votes in favour and 37 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included in the Final Proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, P.Z. No. 494. Let's go further, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law supplementing the House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 495. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes by 79 votes in favour and 38 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal of the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, P.Z. No. 495. 3. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the State Aid Act, P.Z. No. 498. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes by 79 votes in favour and 38 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal of the State Support Act, P.Z. No. 498. 4. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Compensation Fund, P.Z. No. 496. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes by 79 votes in favour and 38 votes against on the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal of the Law on the Fund for Refunds, P.Z. No. 496. 5. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 493. Please state who's in need? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 80 votes in favour and 39 votes against on the agenda according to the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, P.Z. No. 493. I'll repeat the question, any of the MPs have objected to the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? There isn't. That, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare that the agenda has been completed. Now we move to the first point of today's agenda. I see the hand of the respected representative Davorin Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47628	Dear Mr. President, because of the problems and further poor developments in the situation regarding relations with the European Commission, I request a break for the HDZ Club session of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47629	Okay. I can see another hand. Your Honor, go ahead. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47630	Croatian laborers are looking for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47631	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47632	HDSSB too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47633	Josip Djakic. Horvat Mile. Jozo Radosh. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor. That's it. I think you've had 10 minutes. You know the points already. I've got time. 15 minutes, okay. 15 minutes. We'll continue at 14.35. It's 14,18 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.40 HOURS]] The first is the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the club, the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47635	My colleagues and colleagues were going to speak not only to the representatives of my party but also to my colleagues in office, but it seems that the timing for these speeches is not good. I think that today we are rarely able to talk about Parliament's political responsibility, and as a few times so far, we have a topic that will talk about the credibility of Croatian politics and the importance of its institutions. The Croatian government has done everything in the last year and a half to degrade Parliament and its role in political life. And as much as we opposed that, unfortunately, a large part of the measures you've been seeking to introduce you have introduced so that the meaning of the spoken word and the possibility of a political struggle in Parliament at all is, I would say, reduced to a minimum to what we once had. But whatever it is, I think we're in a moment when we have to say again I'd scream with the righteous voice because what's happening is a simple situation that's unsustainable for anyone who thinks well of the Republic. 500 million people in the EU, 4.5 million people in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe most of us in Parliament, only some of us can and some cannot say that, believe that the Croatian government's policy regarding relations with the European Commission and the European Union is wrong. We talked about it in the 6th month when the government proposed a law that caused an unremembered political crisis in Croatia. You wouldn't listen to us. You've been talking and making arguments that are funny to little children. You said you were making the law in this form because you're afraid of floods of arrest warrants that would bury our judiciary. Then you said you were protecting the Homeland War and possible perpetrators of the Homeland War. Then you were saying that it was still a dispute with the commission that you're going to solve and finally the last argument that is well-intentioned, forgive me for saying foolishly, is that you're lost in translations and you don't know whether it's the Croatian official language of the EU or whether it's translated English or French. Today, we had the opportunity to listen to the tile of the Prime Minister, who we referred to as his policy style is wrong, to lead Croatia not in the opposite direction, to lead it into a seal, to lead it to start in another league of EU member states. However, there was a story in vain, the government, and we heard today the position of the Croatian government, decided against all well-intentioned remarks. Today we have a fact that colleagues have used this in their statements, that on the official website of the European Commission, I will quote: "Measures to ensure that Croatia properly implements the European arrest warrant", and these measures are enhanced supervision and suspension of the Schengen Instrument. I will not go into detail what these measures mean, that Croatia does not lose any euro from European funds, and unfortunately I fear that we have exactly the opposite, the shame that has been done to the country as the 28th EU member is immeasurable. We have become unworthy of what the Prime Minister will often say to the Byzantine policy he presents in the prominent society of the EU countries. That way you should not have entered the EU, if you were going to do so, you would have given up before entering. Given everything we heard today from the prime minister who found enemies and Vivian Redding as vice presidents of the European Commission because she speaks as well as HDZ, until today she accuses the president of our party who is trying to save Croatia's reputation and opportunities since it has become a 28th member. Thank you, give me some time just like you're giving the Prime Minister. You're not the Prime Minister and I'm not giving him anything. [[Intruder Leko: Bring an end to a respected colleague.]] No, don't label it.... [[I haven't, yet! Who knows? I know you don't like to hear our opinion and you've done everything you can not hear it, but then you get...]] Then read to yourself at least daily newspapers if you don't want to listen to us. And to conclude, Mr. President, we're asking the Croatian government only two things. One, that the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs should now come to this Parliament and that their view of the situation given the sanctions that are already under way. And under two, that the government, and technical possibilities, has called for an emergency session and adopted, or proposed to Parliament the adoption of a law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU member states as it reads in the text which the European Commission has adopted and which has been equating with the acquis of the EU. Please let us draw these two conclusions and save what else we can save.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47636	Thank you very much. You used more than the Prime Minister, almost one minute but good. Let's go to the next club that is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47637	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. One European topic within the political topic on Croatia but the European topic has become a consensual ideological topic and Croatia has been trapped with this topic for a month. Nothing else in this country is more important and significant for the lives of citizens than that. If you think that's all we have to do, and I'm talking to the rulings, because you created a situation like this, then you must be mistaken. Secondly, I am surprised that this issue has not been discussed by the Committee on European Affairs. Take a look at the Rules of Procedure’s powers in the Rules of Procedure of the Committee and if anyone had to have it on the agenda then it is that committee. What are they waiting for? Where's the board president? It was promised that this week the board would meet and that it would be on the agenda. That's exactly what I believe in the people who gave me that information. When the parliament voted on the law, Croatian Labours voted against the law and on the amendment of counterpart Kosor. We didn't escape from the hall and only six votes were for that amendment in this House. Our conscience is clear. The Prime Minister was trying to convince us here in the Parliament today that he's right, okay, but he's not in a dispute with me or with us. He introduced himself, the government and this Parliament and the state into a dispute with the European Commission. We didn't set off any sanctions. We did not dispute that law in front of the European Commission. Before we enter the phrases we'll sit at the same table, we'll be equal used every time. What about sitting at the same table? Why is this problem not solved at the same table, or is it allowed today by the European Commission to initiate the official sanctioning procedure of Croatia? Are the Prime Minister's arguments correct? It's not up to us to judge it. It's the European Commission, it says. But what is left without an answer today now is I asking the question, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia unique in its position about the law? Is the Government of the Republic of Croatia unique in terms of need or lack of the need to change the law with a delay, without delay and about the amendment of the Constitution in that package which...? That answer we in Parliament need to know, not only the prime minister's response but the government's position, it is the essence of Parliament's behaviour towards the government. The prime minister said no one would wipe the floor with us, that we weren't a bird's reservation. I said two years ago that in Croatia everyone who passes us is hard on our heads and doesn't even know why and we don't dare ask. Now says the Prime Minister, and I agree with that, that we must change our mentality and not be like that. So I expect this statehood to show, for example, on the subject of economic, economic, economic, tax and to ask for Croatia to approve the deficit for the next five years 4%, not 3% of the state budget, because all these countries have financed their economic development by the deficit of the state budget, and we are printed to 3% when we find it most difficult. Or perhaps when introducing the taxation of bank transactions as a requirement for Croatia not only in Croatia but within the EU, it immediately introduces a taxation of banking transactions which is of particular interest to us in Croatia because 95% of the financial market in Croatia is held by foreign financial institutions, institutions, not ours. And finally, the only thing I can agree with, now with the government or prime minister's position, I can never understand, that EU members must be equal. This equality can be achieved in my opinion if you lobby enough hands and partners to open this topic on the Council and on the European Commission. And if that were the way the prime minister went, or no matter who would do it on behalf of Croatia, he would have our full support. The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is official, not a prime minister's position must be a means of conduct for Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47638	Thank you very much. The next club is HDSSB and respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47639	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, our path to EU accession lasted the longest of all EU member states. We were the last to enter, and we were the only ones as the new EU member of the 28th member state who managed in three months instead of withdrawing funds from the EU funds, instead of one decent European foreign policy, to draw the first threat to sanctions, and today here is the confirmation from the European Commission and the official decision that the issue of sanctions against the Republic of Croatia will be raised because of the failure to comply with the obligations of the law that we have spoken about a little bit and too much, three months in Croatia over a decision that was wrong and about the will of Prime Minister Milanovic, who did not allow himself to withdraw the manual anyway and to say that, we have made a mistake, as Prime Minister, the majority in the Assembly was wrong as promised in our discussions. Our club also warned and asked Mr. Minister of Justice and Prime Minister whether we had the green light from Brussels, but then Berlin and Mrs. Merkel who officially cancelled the arrival of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, which we believe is not an accident because we had only three days before the amendments to the law, and we could not agree on a joint conclusion in the Croatian Parliament about the historic moment for Croatia, which is the entry of our country into the European Union. What concerns the Croatian public, even Mr. Perkovic and his case cannot be the point of the law, no law in this country should be passed because of anyone or Mr. Perkovic. His possible guilt, his responsibility under the rules of the European arrest warrant, depends not on the Croatian Assembly, but on the responsibility and procedure where he is innocent or responsible in the judicial procedure of the country that so requests. We can't judge anyone in advance, but we can't even dig through costumes and pasts because this people, and we also have a lot of MPs and MPs, and we should have enough of the fatters and the partisan and the Ustashas and the Chetniks and the past and the establishment of unnecessary commissions and the extraction of those bones and the tiresome of the Croatian people with what doesn't matter at this point. Today is a more important strike for doctors, 40,000 doctors on strike and the lives of some patients we hope are not at risk, we are not talking about it today. There are also problems about Vukovar that we are not reducing anyone's rights, God forbid today when we are a member of the European Union to talk about it. There's been a war, there's been a Homeland War, there's been many casualties. None of us can assess the pain of this Homeland War and the creation of an independent and free Croatia, but we can estimate that we have made a mistake, not us MPs in the Croatian Parliament, that we have warned, not an opposition that now turns out to be eager to impose sanctions that we suffer because of the wrong decisions of the Prime Minister and Prime Minister, but that our people in the referendum gave the green light for Croatia's entry into the European Union. The Croatian Parliament is 10 years old and the former government and prime ministers and we all worked together on this project, not because of someone banging sanctions but because we live better, so we draw funds from European funds and that our voice in the European Commission is respected. We have brought into an unpleasant situation, above all, the Croatian state, and we have brought our first commissioner from the Republic of Croatia into the commission of Mr Mimic that he must respond diplomaticly to something that cannot be answered, and we have brought ourselves into a situation where we have brought what we ourselves have brought, and only one thing has to be done, to act under negotiating chapter 23, to allow the judiciary and European states to implement the laws equally and we in the Republic of Croatia and those towards us, to remove the date because we have left it alone in the negotiating chapter because we then felt that this is the part that is important for Croatia's entry into the European Union and we all wanted it together. However, with one stubborn policy and exclusion, we have led to the fact that we are eager for conflict and some bickering in the Croatian Parliament, not solving the problems of the unemployed, the problems of today's doctor, tomorrow of all those who live badly in Croatia. We have come to the conclusion that, in this case, as Nero, our prime minister quotes poetry, only not burning Rome, but burning Croatia. And now we are putting ourselves in a position to apologize to the European Commission and we are going to change the law because we have to, and we are looking for an emergency procedure for this law that the prime minister admits that we are wrong, to withdraw responsibility for what he wanted because it is not the responsible minister of justice who is doing his job well and who, when he took over the Ministry of Justice in this work before Croatia enters the European Union, has also done a lot. We are looking for an apology from the prime minister, we are looking for an emergency procedure, we are asking for the removal of the date and we are asking for money from the European Union towards Croatia in one normal, political, responsible and state performance of the prime minister and the Croatian government, but also for all of us in the Croatian Parliament because we do not forget, this government did not come from the street, but from the Croatian Parliament, and we are responsible for what is happening to Croatia. We ask for the Prime Minister to appear here today in the Croatian Parliament and Mrs Pusic and all together and to repair the damage we have neither guilty nor due to our people and our country. That's our attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47640	Thank you very much. It is up to the Club of Representatives at the Croatian Assembly of the SDSS and the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47641	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club considers it necessary to present as soon as possible a solution to the dispute between the Government and the Commission and the SDSS Club considers it necessary to find out as soon as possible about the dispute between the Government and the Commission and in legal matters. And in ideological and political issues which unfortunately have flooded the relationship between the commission and the government, which unfortunately flooded and debate in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian public, these issues if we want to talk, we can, but I do not think that this luxury of the Republic of Croatia should allow itself. And all those who want to extend it and have them, including the representatives of the Commission, including the world of Vivian who got into the same story, we from the Croatian Parliament should have told them no. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can talk and juggle because it's not the first one you bring here, like you brought Mrs. Judith Riesmann for other reasons. ... Yeah, yeah, that's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's right. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47642	Let the MP speak to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47643	That's right. Now let me tell you something else when you're already pulling my tongue and for all the honors. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47644	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47645	Exactly. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47646	Better to eat than to say anything, a long time ago the people said. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47647	In 8 years of cooperation between the HDZ and the party I belong to, the Republic of Croatia has done everything possible to get a European face and to open the door to it and open itself to it. And we don't regret what we didn't do, and we could. We don't regret what we've done and endured attacks on this side and on the other side. But it won't occur to us to say that it was embarrassing for us as it came from the party we were working with. We knew why we were doing it. For the same European future of Croatia. Even today, when some want to initiate amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, when they want to obstruct the implementation of the Law on the Rights of National Minorities by covering the argument of the dispute between the Government and the Commission on one case or one case, there is no doubt that the Croatian person is getting ugly, this Croatian place in Europe is being compromised. And for this reason, colleagues and colleagues, allow me as one of the equal but with a somewhat longer internship in the benches of this House to say that it is time to relieve the Croatian public and Croatian political life of something that he needs not only not only questions of our character but also questions about our assets that we are fighting in a political game. As our characters can be harmful to our policy or our political image, so our political resources can be harmful to our nation and our country, and they are. And for that reason let me call for sobriety. Today's debate in Parliament was sober. Let the rest of the proceedings be and return to the beginning of what I said to the Government and the ruling coalition have an obligation to fulfil their obligations because of the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in legal matters with the Commission. Changing the law was an obligation. The surplus in that law should be removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47648	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the next club in the Croatian Parliament. It is a Croatian People's Party club and respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47649	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia will make recommendations with the European Commission, enter into recommendations with Member States at the Council Forum, enter into recommendations with political groups of some of our political groups, and this is all normal functioning of the Republic of Croatia in terms of membership and should not be avoided, this should not be overly stressed and should not be pre-named. This case is an important question. It is a matter of transferring one country's sovereignty to a very important judicial issue, and it is not by chance that three member states at a time when it was procedurally possible to choose that the arrest warrant was not applied retroactively to this in 2002, and two new EU members were in a long-standing, long-standing recommendation with the European Commission on the issue and their state of non-compliance was much longer than Croatian. These are the Czech Republic and Slovenia and none of them have received sanctions, so this issue should not be dramatic but of course it is not the purpose of our action and the achievement of our interests in the EU to enter into those conflicts from which we will not benefit as a state and achieve our objectives. And therefore, according to such action within the EU, we should actually turn our entire policy, have a strategy for achieving the objectives, and then, of course, the tactics of achieving these objectives, including conflicts with both the European Commission and with Member States, or conflicts within the European Council. My colleagues are talking about credibility. Their credibility when it comes to credibility would be greater if in a very comparable case when it comes to respecting the highest Croatian laws, when it comes to respecting the laws adopted in consultations with the International Community, which were adopted after a peaceful reintegration which was a couple of excellent international processes in these cases, there is no need to respect the most Croatian laws because it suits them because it is their current political interest. If that were not the case, then those discriminations would certainly be more credible for Croatian government and Croatian counterparts who are calling for the violated credibility of the Croatian government and the Croatian state. So you can't deal with such big questions today, and tomorrow you can do it because it's of interest to us. Then don't expect anyone else to act differently, and then we get into this infinitely low conflict of which of course I agree absolutely no use. And it is also not credible to call on that this is the main topic that makes it impossible for us to deal with more important issues of Croatian life, Croatian politics when exactly the colleagues who talk about this topic are pushing as an important topic and their political approach has contributed to the importance of this topic in Croatian politics. Therefore, there is the same loss of credibility for those who talk about it, and tonight, here and in the current morning, and in these presentations, there has been a lot of talk. The sanctions of the European Commission are not in the process, following consultations of the Member States. It is not easy to impose sanctions on any country, precedents are created that will then allow such sanctions to be imposed and other countries, and many other countries are in far more serious conflicts with the European Commission than Croatia is today. Of course, there are inter-party relations, not only of our inter-party relations, but of political groups in which one political group or commission belonging to that group essentially advocates the interests of that political group, which would actually be controversial to the fundamental rules of the functioning of the European Commission, but it is now a different story. And that's what's in this story here in Croatia. But I expect that despite the fact that I think maybe we shouldn't have gone that way, I say maybe because we could get some messages and lessons out of it, I expect that the Croatian government will find a solution in the coming days and that Croatia will not suffer great difficulties and damages from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47650	Thank you very much. It is next to the club of respected representatives of Jadranka Kosor and the Civil Party in the Croatian Parliament. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47651	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I dare say that on behalf of my two clubmates, I have reported for this debate with a little more arguments than some other colleagues. In fact, he reminded Mr. Lesar well, our club was the only one to submit an amendment to the bill proposed by this government that introduced the restriction. Thank the colleagues of the Laburists who supported the amendment, and we were ultimately the only ones against that law and will remain for history recorded and voted in the Croatian Parliament. And our club is the only one, as you know, to submit amendments to that law, a proposal to delete this restriction in accordance with what President Josipovic and I signed in Brussels on 9 December 2011. Therefore, I must mention once again that as a long-standing and representative and a member of the government, above all as a representative, I was surprised at the very least that this point was envisaged, so the amendments to the law which we are returning to what we have signed and which is now, of course, the subject of a major dispute between the Republic of Croatia and the Commission. Not the Government, because the European Commission is ultimately not interested in who is in power here but looks at us as a country as a whole, the 28th EU member state. So that point was foreseen in the 70th place on the agenda, and that today most of the votes of the MPs and MPs in this House were positioned in the 85th place. This really means unfortunately that this law will never be discussed. And that's something, Mr. President, which is also the topic that needs to be discussed today, and if it's the Parliament then, I'll use the Prime Minister's rhetoric, indeed some bird reserve, and who actually wipes the floor with the Croatian Parliament. But I'll be constructive back to the problem. The damage has been done and we will have to spend a long, long time explaining why this damage has been done. It should be reminded of the time your colleagues and colleagues were here, when we changed the Constitution to the Joint Forces in 2010. We had to change the Constitution among others to enable the extradition of Croatian citizens. So it was a prerequisite for the adoption of the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU countries. And we brought that together. Never, never has anyone from the government, from the opposition anywhere or from the ranks of legal experts ever mentioned the possibility of introducing a restriction into our August 2002 law. As you know before the amendments to the constitution we tried to agree with the SDP above all, I spoke to the president personally, and now Prime Minister Milanovic. Never did that problem, that question, position that proposal as something we should discuss. If it were, of course, we would have talked about it eventually without those votes that the opposition then insisted on, of course, not being able to pass that law. The law on the European arrest warrant was a criterion for the closure of Chapter 24, therefore, of the criterion. And if we hadn't passed that and such a law, we wouldn't have finished the negotiations and today we wouldn't be a member of the EU. That's why sometimes I really don't know what we're discussing anymore. It is necessary and this is a proposal from our club that the Government amends the law without restrictions as we have signed and since, I mentioned that the President, Mr Josipovic, signed the same as the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, this accession contract, so where we have committed ourselves to all that has changed three days before the entry, I suggest that the President of the Republic activates the possibility from the Constitution of the Republic, and that this is Article 102, and that he proposes to the Government to hold a session on this subject. Not only on the subject of amending the law, but on the current situation and relations with EU members. I believe that the Prime Minister, or the government, will accept it as a whole, and that this issue is indeed being removed from the agenda. I also propose to the President of the Croatian Parliament at the end, because I am convinced that these changes from the Government will eventually come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament to then insist that this debate be united and that we also discuss in the debate the amendment and addition of the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters proposed by the Club of Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47652	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, in line with the current Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, have asked some questions and I should now give explanations to the Rules of Procedure, answers. I am very pleased that in the Croatian Parliament it is possible, it should and should happen to represent policies in front of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this is a confirmation of the value of the Croatian Parliament. So the clubs went out with a look at politics one, two, three or four which is good. Secondly, what I'm saying is that nothing dramatic happens beyond the usual standards foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the laws, nothing dramatic. Thirdly, what I also want to say to you and the Croatian public, the Croatian Government is in line with the Constitution and the Government Act. The fourth thing I want to say is that you know the Croatian public, I spoke to the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Pusic, and we have foreseen the possibility that there will be a request to come to the Croatian Parliament, but it is not difficult to explain that we have just finished with the current morning and that all the questions have been asked about it, and that no question about what the clubs are now talking about has been answered. And it is very important now to add something else, it is not finished, neither with the European Commission nor probably with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because if we had, we would have already had a bill here or some proposal that we would be discussing. So, I am convinced that the Republic of Croatia is neither in nor out of sight compared to other EU member states and that it will not be. I still think there will be a lot of misunderstandings that make sense in a community's life like the EU and that both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government will know how to protect Croatia's interests. When the law process is completed, I am convinced that the first Deputy Prime Minister will also come here to the Croatian Parliament and explain everything necessary for any relations with the EU, and in accordance with the current Constitution and the current facts in the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in no dispute with the Croatian Parliament. It's a policy that's unequivocal, someone's good, someone sees it very bad, and someone supports it. We will remain in line with democratic standards in the Croatian Parliament and this will be Croatia's best legislation for the EU. Thank you very much. And now here you are, Your Honor. If you're thinking of de-committing with me, you can't because that's not meant for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47653	I can't think of that at all. Yours was such a calming tone that I wouldn't dare to pollemize such a healing approach. I wanted to ask for something I asked for. and that is the vote on two conclusions we have proposed. [[Intruder: You can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47654	You know how in accordance with the Rules of Procedure the acts are addressed to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the changeover to the agenda points. Now we'd move on to asking questions according to a set order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the ministries have not delivered within the prescribed time limit. Well, let me say, 10 parliamentary questions and, in accordance with that business provision, I ask that the delivery answers be answered within 8 days. [[Intruder Blažević: That later.]] It's ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament this morning. Let's go with the first question. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47706	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, my question will not be about Cyrillic, despite another record that was taken down in Krnjak with two letters last night, I will leave it to a large number of fans of St. Cyrillic in Croatia has grown recently. Also, my question will not be about the shism caused by lex Perkovic with the appearance of the new Croatian saint St. Vivian, my question will be addressed to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister, the total savings of our citizens in banks is close to €200 billion or €26 billion. 20 years ago, it was only 4.6 billion kuna, which means it has grown by almost 50 times today. During that time, industrial production was destroyed, agricultural production also, public services such as health care and education are ahead of a permanent collapse. The external responsibility of the state is such and so much so that the problem is to service his interest, and our citizens are increasingly poor and there are more who are on the verge of poverty and cannot be in the savings groups. The government and your ministry at the time are seeking to consolidate the budget deficit by raising VAT, fiscalising, selling the remaining state property, privatising the public sector, new borrowing abroad and searching for investors in the white world. During that time, the huge savings primarily represent the deposit security of banks and the renting security of a small number of savings because it is estimated that around 70% of the savings that I stated do not hold more than 100 to 200 thousand savings in Croatia. What does the Government think should be done to turn the mainly renting status of this vast wealth into productive capital to revive industrial and agricultural production, to strengthen the energy sector, to stop and collapse the public sector? What are the measures of the government's economic policy, the fiscal policy of your ministry and the monetary policy of the CNB that should be taken to make this situation change and that these funds are finally being used in Croatia's interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47707	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47708	I appreciate the question. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. When we talk about total savings, it's somewhere around 182 billion kunas in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to individuals. When we look at DAB data, then we'll see that somewhere around 150 billion kunas are secured deposits. We'll also see from DAB data that somewhere, when we talk about insured persons, it's about 5.4 million citizens. Which means that some of our citizens have deposit accounts in different banks which are legally allowed. And probably part of them and there are bigger amounts, but there are no records in Croatia where they could confirm your claim that somewhere 100 thousand to 200 thousand people have deposits and that the rest are those who have small deposits. So we don't have that kind of record. We estimate that the real savings in Croatia are large and that the average savings when we look at these total 5.4 million is about 27 thousand kuna. What we can say should be encouraged to save citizens and should really be in Croatian banks. This is the stability of the banking system which is nevertheless the backbone of the financing of companies, private companies and in production processes and in investment processes. Unfortunately, the banking system, all the incentives that have gone towards strengthening the financial system, which is a financial business and, above all, pension funds, as you can see so far, do not produce greater results. Therefore, as long as all that is invested in the financial market, and in the financial market the state has invested enough, we see the controversy whether or not they need other pension pillars. And they open up these polemics. We also wonder whether funds of economic solidarity that need to be revived by fallen companies need to be resuscitated. The answer is as long as we don't get stability here, as long as we don't get from them that the financial market in Croatia has worked out a change from saving to trading in capital markets. Therefore, what the Government is doing at this time is trying to maintain stability and the banking system and strengthen the financial system. And apparently, all measures need to go on how to start the economy. It is enough to say that in 2012 over 5 billion we have fewer revenues in the state budget was introduced according to the Croatian economy, 5 billion kuna, significant 5 billion that are very important for our budget and our deficit. And the truth is, most of the burden has been borne by Croatian citizens, if the government has also transferred part of the burden through larger VAT to citizens. Obviously, the recovery of the economy that went wrong and invested 5 years in real estate Business isn't a one-time and easy job. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47709	Thank you very much, Minister. It's an indication of the esteemed representative, Milorad Popovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47710	I thank you for your response, Mr. Secretary. I understand your difficult position, but you will understand that something needs to be done in a situation where there is a small number of savings on one side where savings are growing, and on the other side there is an increase in the number of those who have nothing to save and barely have anything to live on. And in this sense, I would support you in your efforts to use economic policy, fiscal policy and monetary policy to find measures for this money and this huge Croatian wealth to be used not only for the renting needs of savings, because it is such a situation but for the needs of the Croatian economy and for the needs of Croatian citizens. Economic policy will surely agree with me, fiscal policy and monetary policy in today's situation Croatia cannot be islands and something needs to change to become an archipelago of an initiative that will change this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47711	Thank you, Your Honor. Second question and respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47712	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Mr. Minister, for the second year in a row, the Croatian Government has co-financed the inter-urban transportation of high school students of 75%, since I have constant citizen enquiries asking how it is possible that some of them pay a higher price, some pay a lower price, and some pay nothing at all, for the remaining 25% of the amount that the Croatian government does not co-finance or there are differences in the price of the remaining 25% depending on the county to the county. We are also witnessing many media advances by individual local leaders who disagree with the way this problem was solved, therefore my question is. How has the issue of co-financing of high school transport been resolved, and I am asking it precisely because of all the citizens who have addressed me and those who are criticising this decision, and precisely because you here publicly tell us why the difference that I made earlier is coming? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47713	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47714	Thank you, Reverend Djujic. Mr. President, MPs and MPs. First, I wish you successful work at this autumn session, a lot of quality discussions and good decisions in the interest of all Croatian citizens. Mr. Djujic is well aware that one of the strategic priorities of the Croatian government is to ensure that Croatia is a society of equal opportunities for everyone, so that society of equal opportunities for everyone in the first place is education. For this reason, we also made a decision to co-finance the inter-urban transport of pupils, the decision was made first by the end of 2012, then we made it for the period until June 2013 and now we have made a new decision. One of the basic questions is why we have decided to co-finance 75%, precisely for reasons to prevent the constant rise in prices made by carriers and to allow one agreement, cooperation between school founders, local self-government units to prevent them from constantly increasing prices together in negotiations with carriers. The data I have that 40% of high school students took advantage of this possibility is about 72,000 students. The smallest number is in Ličko-Senj County that is 640, the largest number is in Split-Dalmatia over 8 thousand students. The highest number of students is 67% in Međimurje and Varazdin County, the smallest in the City of Zagreb. If we look at what the price is right now, it's 643 kuna. There are also great differences between town and town, from county to county. Here is the average price per student if we are looking at the smallest in Split-Dalmatia County 370 kuna, the largest in Lika-Senjska 71 kuna. Of course there are great differences in the price of whether it is a train or a bus, if it is a train the average price is 254 kuna, if the bus is the average price of 703 kuna. What's very interesting is this is a great source of income for all carriers, and we've been doing an analysis on 40 carriers that account for 93% of total transportation of students, so the lowest prices are carried by city transport operators ZET and Libertas Dubrovnik, on average 20 kuna lower than carriers carrying interurban transport. Otherwise, the largest carrier that makes up 19% of total student transport is Chazmatrans, to which this job brings income from the average monthly cost is 6.1 million kuna co-financed by the ministry only by this carrier. Otherwise, the most expensive are, for example, the most expensive. Terzić bus, Brod-Posavina County, 85 kuna per student; Maluks Transport, Sisak-Moslavačka County, 67 kuna; Chazmatrans 60 kuna; Auto Transport to Lika-Senj County 58 Kuna; Autotransport Karlovac 55 kuna and APP Požega 55 kuna. So what's going on? Car carriers have in a very incorrect way decided to use this constant source of income to increase their profits. That's why we've decided to co-finance 75% of the price of a ticket that can't be higher than a working card. It doesn't make any sense for a student show to be more expensive than a worker's show, and that's been happening over the past six months. We've seen that from month to month, the price that the carriers set has increased. So, to conclude, the Ministry in order to curb price rises in the medium-school inter-urban transport market has decided to co-finance 75% of the price that cannot be higher than the worker's showing map, if that price is, for example, the price. For 50 km 1300 kuna, the Ministry co-finances with 1000 kuna, and we believe that the counties, the cities in the negotiations with the car carriers must ensure that the rest is co-financed so that the students do not have to pay for their secondary inter-urban transportation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47715	Thank you very much. The obvious of the respected representative Sasa Djujic, no. We are going to the third parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Gordan Jandroković. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47716	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, and the subject is the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. The law is known to the Croatian public as lex Perkovic. About three months ago, the Croatian government decided to amend the law, sent it into the procedure to the Croatian Parliament and the ruling majority, despite our warnings, passed the law. This triggered the entire avalanche of events, which triggered a whole series of disputes, conflicts, difficult words and accusations that have escalated in recent days. On several occasions, the Prime Minister gave his assessments and assessments that the situation would develop and all these assessments were unfortunately wrong. Reality has denied him from day to day. And today we came where we are, and Croatia is unfortunately in front of the suspension of some of the European funds, before the suspension of the Schengen part. Croatia has certainly lost part of its reputation and credibility, which has hard-earned through the negotiation process and I hope that things will improve, I hope that this is all that can happen to us because I don't even want to think about where we could come from and where we could end up if things continue to tighten up in this way. What I am interested in is my question, what are the real reasons why you decided to amend that law three days before Croatia enters the European Union and I am curious why, because I have heard different theories. One is that you want to protect the people and structures associated with the murders at the time of the communist system, and I believe that. The second is that you want to draw attention from a difficult economic situation for which your government unfortunately has no solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47717	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47718	Mr. Pupovac got 33 seconds more, so please let me have it, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47719	Thank you very much. You're wasting your time, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47720	After that, one theory is that you do not understand the institutions of the European Union, that you do not know logic and spirit, and the fourth thing is...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47721	You asked a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47722	No, I didn't. Let me ask you a question to the end. So I'm interested in what are the real reasons for the adoption of this law and I'm interested in what point you're willing to go to, is there a moment where you will give up and say I was wrong or are you willing to exhaust the citizens of the Republic of Croatia until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47723	Thank you very much. Thank you. He's a colleague of Jandrokovic's. Answer to the parliamentary question, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47724	Dear colleagues and colleagues, above all a good day. I wish you successful and quality work at this autumn session. Here we heard a few theories. The theory in scientific hierarchy is a step above the hypothesis, but good, okay. I have repeated and will repeat calmly at this meeting today and not only in response to you, because it will take a long time for the Croatian public not to hear for the first time all about this issue, which in our sometimes palanic frameworks is very high, and there is no European framework, it simply does not exist. And I tried and talked to a number of my colleagues, not everyone, but with a series of government presidents, as a rule, no one heard anything about it or heard very little, mostly neighbors. So they don't care. With the state commission, they go into a variety of disputes and misunderstandings and there is no state that has no more disputes with the commission. Let's say a week or less than a week ago on the front page of one big world newspaper, perhaps even the most influential, the text has been published that DG 4 or now 7 for competition is initiating proceedings against Ireland, the Netherlands, for tax purposes, fraud of tens of billions of euros which allow companies from America to have conditions that represent unfair competition, tens of millions of euros of unfair competition on the European market. Of course, no one fell in... so it was accepted as something normal. Of course the Netherlands and Ireland claim to be right. If proven not to be, they'll have to pay tens of billions of euros, and someone came up with it. So it certainly has an impact on the state's reputation. I am saying this for the sake of reputation and for the understanding that the European Commission, what we are and that we are a state and that we are working in good faith to do the right thing. I won't be able to say everything in these four minutes but I'll be back during the day for every detail. And to begin with, let me remind you, so the Croatian language we have heard many times in this House is one of the official languages of the European Union. What was published in the official messenger, i.e. the European Union's list is not a Croatian translation, it is a Croatian language and it was held there in 2012 in the official messenger of the European Union, which is under the authority of the Council of the European Union, not Zrinjevac, not Croatia, the Croatian translators for the European Council, published a translation of the Framework Decision of the European Union, in which Article 32 is translated into that each country has the right, after the Council adopts a framework decision, so indefinely has the right to reserve in 2002. It's an official version of 28.6 this year. Croatia did it. She amended 82 provisions of that law, 82. It was a whole series of synchronizations. It was supposed to be done in April, but it was late, between them and these. It's only August 20th... is in the law, i.e. in the official messenger, this is the EU correction that has become the law, and we have since considered that we are inconsistencies and nothing more than that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The people who worked in that task force are the same people who worked during your term of office, but who were painted. These are experts who had certain political frameworks and motives. One of them is also very important to try to protect people in Croatia since the system is very uneven and I deliberately gave comparison to taxes and the internal market where the rules are the same, but the same for all in the tenth decimal. In the area of arrest warrants and judicial cooperation between Member States the rules are countless, the fences in this document are numerous and all from the country benefit. This is actually a fence to the fence. And a state that doesn't carry them simply doesn't protect its interests. My first words were 28.6. and I will end up there for now in front of the European Council allowing the possibility that we have made a mistake, although we are not at that moment because this proves that we are not ready for consultations and discussions. But the threats and the wipeout of the floor don't. And there's not a word that's hard and ugly on our part. It be continued.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47725	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Appreciation of the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47726	Thank you very much. Well, I'm not happy with the answer, because I didn't get what I was looking for, what I asked. So, what are the real reasons and where you are willing to go, what price are you willing to pay but not you personally but Croatian citizens because of your spite and your character. Unfortunately, you don't behave stately here, because avoiding your obligations doesn't mean being a statesman. It means being the one who cheats. What personal qualifications? [[/Adversity President: Dear Representative, let's not use personal qualifications. It's really about political evaluations.]] Mr. President of the Croatian Assembly... [[/Intruder President: O.K. Please! I'm asking nicely.]] [[Stop breaking up!]] Of course, the SDP as a party takes responsibility for what is happening now and you will be responsible for every kuna and every centimeter of lost credibility, the reputation that is happening to Croatia right now. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I ask you to stop this vain battle. You have not answered me when you will finish it because the price can be much higher than the loss of funds for Shengen that you know very well by introducing postmonitoring would be a great shame and disaster for the Republic of Croatia. No, I'm not done, because you're giving everyone half a minute and you won't let me. Here's another finding. [[I warn everyone when the time is up and so are you.]] So other countries have been running disputes with the European Commission, and that's nothing new. But there has never been such a pointless battle and such a harmful battle for a member country. European Commission, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament... [[Intruder President: Thank you very much now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47727	Thank you very much. Please! Thank you very much. You'll get... Thank you very much, thank you. [[/Intruder Jandroković, you can't hear.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: The prime minister had half a minute more and you do not allow me to finish my thought.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: I won't sit because you won't let me finish my thought.]] Because you're not going to sit down, you know that you deserve a warning. No breaks until the agenda starts [[Attack Jandrokovic: Then, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, I am looking for a 30-minute break.]] Thank you very much. [[This is a phenomenal interpretation! The sitting didn't actually start.]] Thank you very much for that. [[Upadica Jandroković: Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you are indeed becoming a servant of the government and prime minister.]] Thank you very much for your treat, thank you very much. [[Intrudica Jandroković: And you are doing great damage to the reputation of the Croatian Parliament, the reputation of all of us who sit here and represent Croatian citizens.]] Thank you very much for your worship, for your disqualification. I don't feel like a personal matter. I feel like the president of the Croatian Parliament. Let's go to the next question, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47728	Here, thank you. A question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, in a number of information and contradictory statements from you and individual ministers, the Croatian public is interested in how it came to be in Vukovar on public institutions practically overnight and I would say unfortunate bilingual tablets on Cyrillic. Have you had an assessment of the security situation in Vukovar and have you ever appreciated what will happen to international relations in Vukovar? The events that followed showed that these assessments were not quite there. So I call you as a statesman if it is possible who may or may not feel any of their own people and who wants to assume well to remove these unfortunate panels because this move did not go towards quality, to a better life and better relations between Croats and Serbs in Vukovar, but is actually a step backwards towards the deterioration of these relations. We also asked as a club and suggested that a simple debate be held in the Croatian Parliament and try to discuss possible solutions in order to make a solution that would be acceptable for all parties and in order to protect Croatian national interests. And finally the question is, are you in the interest of better lives and better future of Croatia's Vukovar ready to give up these plates, bilingual panels in the city of Vukovar? Are you willing to at least allow a parliamentary debate, and you should allow your hands to be raised for the HDSSB club's initiative to hold a parliamentary debate on the subject in order to make a political decision and define something that will have a quality effect and a positive impact on the future of life for both Croats and Serbs in Croatia's Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47729	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47730	Thanks, buddy. If I understood correctly, and I liked to be denied by the days coming, there is some initiative to amend the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities proposed by the right hand side of the Croatian Parliament, which I have heard, perhaps not true, I consider it a legal or legitimate legislative initiative. We will see, but I will be very disappointed because it is one of the key elements of credibility in our EU membership negotiations. And I also think it's a good law. Look, I take my Croatianism seriously but in a way and relaxedly. I'm from Zagreb, my parents are from the Dalmatian mountain of the Croatian coast of the north and that's something in me. We're obviously different in that experience. So, we're not gonna hurt any of the people in Vukovar, and we're not gonna hurt each other, but it bothers me when people who were emotionally trampled both in the war and after the war are manipulated in this way. This is ugly. We have implemented the law, and when we talk about the reputation of Croatia and Croatian credibility, then pictures from Vukovar are echoed across Europe and seen by everyone and talk about Croatia and talk about the conduct in Croatia and about the rule of law and about the mood of one part of the people, they talk about everything. That goes beyond our limits. This Lex you're talking about doesn't interest anyone, but Vukovar and the criteria in Vukovar do. I cannot and will not go against the country's fundamental rules, nor when it comes to constitutional law, nor when it comes to the sometimes pointless provisions of the financial penalties law for political parties because they have been late one day to publish on the internet, even if false data on financing and business has done and is wrong, it goes through regular legal means. That's how I experience the rule of law. And it is not fair to say about Croatia's reputation those who, although rightly so, have the most violated that reputation these years. This is a struggle for impressions and trust, and I can neither speak louder nor more violently nor yell at anyone, nor does it make sense. What I do, I explain from day to day, and today I will, or we will not. But the base line is respect for the rights and the rights of the smaller ones. I want every Serb and every member of the national minorities in Croatia to see her as their mother, not as their mistress and as their defender. For me, too, it was a Cyrillic, Arabic, any letter, national minorities in Vukovar at the state institutions of Croatian will and Croatian state. It's a Croatian law. And whoever doesn't love Croatia and fought against it, let's imagine that after 20 years he woke up and saw that table and nothing under God's grace would be clear to him, would he be shocked to see it in Cyrillic? Cyrillic, and the Republic of Croatia because they thought it would never be, but it is. So in victory, we must be generous and have good faith in peace. In the war to provide resistance and defiance, and it was all so, and that is the dictum, which Croatia held to and which a good part of the Croatian public is holding today, but we are not thinking the same. And I ask you to protect the feelings and emotions of people in Vukovar because there are people who may have a little bit of evil blood, but there are a lot of people who are just hurt, hurt and who will never get over things, I'm talking about Croats, and I understand that. And in my government there are people whose relatives were killed in the first days of the war in the ugliest way, which can never be forgotten, their property was burned, they took weapons, they defended Croatia and today they are where they are. They are building modern and European Croatia with which no one will wipe the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47731	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47732	Well, I don't know how to be satisfied with this answer. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know which is the first of the seven gifts of the holy spirit? That's wisdom, and the first of seven deadly sins is pride. You are unfortunately the prime minister of departure, not because of Vukovar, you are the prime minister of departure because you have succeeded in a political war with both Germany and the EU and with fundamental principles of democracy. You are ready to be punished by sanctions and disgraced by your own country in the EU, and you are not ready on behalf of your Croatian people and in '91. one small step, one small change to try to enter the dialogue and look for a solution. No, we're blind to the law here. I'd also like a written answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47733	Thank you, too. The fifth parliamentary question, the esteemed representative of Denesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47734	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister and members of the government, I would like to ask Mr. Arsen Bauk, the Minister of Administration. The candidate of the majority people who has been elected deputy chief in the Municipality of the Prince's vineyards during the election promotion has not stated on any document that he is a member of the Management of the Commercial Society, I suppose and I am convinced that he should not have been listed. After the elections, it was concluded that the elected deputy chief was in conflict of interest and that the post could not be carried out voluntarily as planned. On Sunday, the majority people elect their deputy chief again, the 22nd. The municipality with 4500 inhabitants of a very heterogeneous national composition will have almost certainly all professional employees according to the regulations. Apart from working and creating working conditions for the deputy chiefs' deputies, there will also be early elections on Sunday 22nd. The amount of remuneration for persons involved in the elections shall be determined by the Government, based on the criteria set by the DIP. Given the large number of persons involved in the election cca 100 people will be engaged, reducing the revenues of the municipal budget, I ask the Minister if the Government can determine a symbolic fee for the work of these people for those few hours on Sunday or empower the representative body to decide on it according to its options because it pays for it at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47735	Thank you very much. Answer the question, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47736	Mr. President, Your Honor. So the municipality of the Prince's vineyards is the only municipality in Croatia in which two national groups exercise the right to deputy chief and therefore members of the Croatian people who have 38.1% of the population and members of the Serb national minority who have 17.66% in the population. The most numerous national group in the Municipality of Knezeva winemakers are Hungarians who have 26 more than there are Croats, 38.66% and I say it is the only municipality in Croatia in which two national groups exercise the right to deputy chief. I do not take your question as a challenge to the rights of Croats and Serbs to elect special deputy chiefs such as members of national minorities where there are more than 15% and members of Croatian people where the Croats are more than 15%, and some other group is more elected by special deputy chiefs and mayors. The reason why the deputy chief of the Croatian people resigned was because he could take office but would have had to come out of the company's management that he did not want, therefore that is something he knew even before he ran. Only he probably didn't take the provisions of the law seriously enough, or he didn't read the law at all, but that's why they're not citizens. So anyone running must have the responsibility to know what his obligations are and what his rights are. I think the rights read a little better, but it doesn't matter. So as far as election costs are concerned, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set a fee for members of the election committees for local elections, and in view of this initiative, we will consider your proposal that for the additional elections, or for elections, only the chiefs of the minority or council members are elected, unless in some municipality a sufficient number of council members have been elected to reduce this fee and I believe that at one point you will receive the answer at one of the next meetings of the Croatian Government. So we stay open to this initiative of yours. As regards the functioning of the municipality, since it is the only such municipality in Croatia you asked me last time about the number of deputies, so I wished you victory in the elections because this would solve the issue of Hungarian representation in the executive bodies of the municipality. Since you won the election, this problem has been solved, I congratulate you and I believe that in the next term you will work on the well-being of all citizens of your municipality regardless of its heterogeneous national composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47737	It's an indication of the respected representative of Danesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47738	It would be declassified if I, as a minority representative, advocated anything else to be represented by any minority, but I also warn in the debate when the law was passed and then I warned of this material aspect of the problem that is present. I also had certain proposals that were not accepted to make a professional decision by a representative body, and they would be there and hired. Therefore, I am absolutely satisfied with the answer, but for these material reasons that manifest down on the ground in the local community I am not particularly happy. Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47739	Thank you, too. The 6th parliamentary issue of the respected representative Tanja Vrbat. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47740	Thank you very much, President. I'm going to ask the Prime Minister a question. The President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, given the doubts that certain parts of the public place on the very readiness of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the European Arrest Warrant, have already been carried out, given that the provisions of the European Arrest Warrant have been implemented and that in this short time the full membership has already been carried out by several received tasks, given the continued dialogue between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I ask you to respond to the following, are there any differences in the interpretation of the implementation of the European arrest warrant between the competent general administration of the Commission and the Republic of Croatia, and what are the latest developments in the European Commission and the Government's dialogue on amending the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47741	Thank you very much. The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47742	... We never dreamed we'd talk about this and decide a year ago, we didn't think of it. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So we didn't hand out or honor a few arrest warrants, but 30 and it goes its course and it'll go its course and we said we'll change the law and we're looking for a vacacio legion, so the delay in law enforcement. But the law is there and nobody is going and nobody, no matter what insinuations of those who have just provided protection to people who are pointing fingers at today, no one but those, once again, who have provided protection and actively, and today they are the loudest, the ones they point their finger at today. It wasn't me, it wasn't anyone from this government, it wasn't nobody from here, but HDZ has them. No one questions whether all the people who are suspects in the end will come to justice or proceedings very quickly, no later than the 7th month. How? Only if we change the Croatian Constitution and no different. That's where we need your hands. Once in your life, be credible when you've already violated the laws of minority rights and raise your hands, don't raise your hand, but give a voice for why, for the hundredth time, we'll be outvoted again and I can only count on human trust because on the other hand there are no arguments but only noise and manipulation. I'm sorry that's my point of view or that's obvious to me. So outdated is one of the reasons for 20 reasons for the arrest warrant to refuse a arrest warrant. But he's not the only one. We'll come to that. There's a lot of obstacles, and the state uses them. And we'll face it ourselves in terms of Hungary, that's my prognosis, in a few weeks. This is a barrier to the barrier. So the crimes of political murders, colleagues and colleagues are acts that are serious murders that have become obsolete. 2008 Definitely, the State's Attorney's office had a slightly different interpretation, actually also a favorite, very interesting, and a favorite suspect that the statute of limitations appeared in '98. That's how I feel about a defense attorney, not a state lawyer, but okay. 2008 definitely. Therefore, the persecution in Croatia is no more. People can be calm. There's no extradition because that's one reason to refuse an arrest warrant. And when we change that, and when we abolish the limitation of severe political murders, but we cannot do it alone, gentlemen, and there will be seen who has sincere intentions, then we can approach either the procedure in Croatia, our organs or extradition to any European Union country. So none of that can be hidden and that's the question of the moon. Some other countries have done so for 10 years and have not yet done so without any consequences or sanctions. However, in that case, and I ask you to read these regulations if we are already discussing it so much, and in that case, abolishing our court's statutes of justice and the right to a fair trial, it can refuse, it can refuse an arrest warrant, it is all in line with the European Commission, if the Croatian judicial authority, which is the DORH, has decided not to initiate the procedure. In Croatia, that happened twice. It is now in court to decide on the criteria of purpose and the right to a fair trial, so the criteria are set, not exactly from the hip, whether to extradite that person. If I were a judge, I don't know what I'd do. I would be exposed to a dilemma whether to respect the position of the Croatian State's Attorney's Office or to accept the Swedish State's Attorney's position on the same issue, on the same incrimination. It's just one of the barriers standing in the way. Were you aware when you negotiated it, I suppose. So it's all clear. They'll go on about Schengen and other things. Read it, it's not a joke.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47743	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47744	I'm just thanking you for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47745	Thank you, too, dear colleague. The seventh parliamentary question, the respected representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47746	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I will refer my question to Croatian Prime Minister Milanovic. The government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision to launch the sale of two Croatian financial situations, Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal banks. Based on which data and what methodology you were running when you reached the value of 2 billion kuna for those two profitable companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47747	Thank you very much. Croatia's Prime Minister, respected Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47748	Dear colleague, I am fully convinced of the very objective criteria in the privatisation process given by the advisers. Of course, profitable does not mean long-term market sustainability, it means very often in the conditions of sharp competition in that part of the market the need for new capital, for..., and that is all money, and we do not have it. Otherwise, these companies will disappear, i.e. they will lose a constant share of the market they have in the insurance area, which is not small but is smaller, and in the case of the Croatian Post Bank, it is marginal. So if these companies, or those corporations, these companies need to develop, they need money. Whoever offers the most and the best, but first of all, they'll get it, or they'll be sold to him. The interest is actually very big, and we have to stick to it completely and from principle and because of some experiences you know from which time, so on the side, because I personally am not being pressured by the heads of government of some states, but they are always interested. My attitude is who gets the most obvious. Therefore, if money comes from abroad, it is also a good thing for the Croatian balance of payments. So it is in some way, not in some way, but a direct inflow of foreign capital and has a positive impact on the Croatian balance of payments. Who's going to be elected in the end, that's not for me to decide. Croatia's insurance is a company that is constantly losing market share, unfortunately, new, strong, large, potent players have their queens in Germany, Italy, and this is not easy to deal with. Is the company best run for the last 10 or 20 years, not run by the worst but not run in the best way but it certainly served...... Time's up, do I have to stop? ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47749	Guys, you don't have to yell, if you care, we'll fix it, and you don't have to throw it so rudely. ... Here you go, Mr. President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47750	Does that mean I still have it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47751	You've got more, according to... Here you go. Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47752	I'm asking the President of the Parliament... I thought the time was up even though I was a little too fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47753	It's a long time, but it's not us...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47754	Okay, so this is something that the responsible owner in this case will do, of course not sell out, not give below the price or sell everything, especially when it comes to Croatia's insurance but for years it's the only state-owned company on the market that has been operating in conditions of competition and that is incomparable with Croatian waters, HEP, Croatian forests, which are actually isolated, insular monopolies that have not had competition, although in some sectors things change. Croatia's insurance has been operating on the market for years and this market is a lot of pressure, these are huge profits. Therefore, whoever offers the most and who gives the best conditions will be a partner to the government. So the government stays there in a certain proportion so that it can control the processes, but no longer that it can lead the day-to-day policy, so that it can hire, so that it can do services, it doesn't make sense. I think in principle that the government should move out of all such situations and keep control of only fundamental resources, what needs to be a monopoly, and that's getting smaller but it's a sea, it's a coast, it's concessions, it's forests, rivers and water. This is it, and mineral treasure under the Adriatic and below Croatia. There is still a matter of regulated market when it works in the EU. So very strict and very precise. And I end up the same for everything. The European arrest warrant has 15 variations. The rules of the game are the same for everyone and it concerns the pockets and the money and the one who breaks them in fact cheats on others and takes their profits. Mineral water from Croatia to Austria goes without customs and vice versa. But people don't! And these are the shortcomings of an arrest warrant that we're going to advocate to change because that's Article 4. The EU Treaty is sovereign after all Member States. That's it, that's That's where I'm looking for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47755	This was indeed the technical benefit of the measurement system, but we can't influence it. It's all right. Appreciation of Honorable Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47756	Well, of course, I'm not happy with your answer, and I've been thinking about what this sale you've announced to these state-owned companies might be called. It is practically a seasonal downturn when you have made an assessment of the official announcement that you expect a billion kuna from Croatian insurance, from the sale of Croatian insurance. This means that this sale can't be called selling, but handing over state property. This sale can be called a gift or seasonal sale in which you will donate state property especially to all those who know and warn that the value of Croatia's insurance alone is about 10 billion kuna, that there is valuable property that this company has, the daughter's company. But of course I don't have to make those arguments because it doesn't interest you as much as you don't even care that you didn't meet Plan 21 because it's a dead letter on paper. Like you didn't, like you managed to bring down the economy, entrepreneurship. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] The only useful thing you can do is resign and save the Croatian people from further leadership. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, dearly respected Vice President of the Parliament.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47757	Thank you very much, Vice President. Time's up. Eighth parliamentary question, respected representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47758	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Mr Branko Greek, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and EU funds. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you have announced your establishment in your time, so the coordination that would deal with only the destruction of the investment barriers. I would therefore like to hear how far these coordinations have come and the concrete results of the work of these economic coordinations. I ask that primarily because I am interested in when, therefore, the public administration will become a fast and effective system at the service of investors, not the main braker of economic growth and recovery. It's simple what's done and what's done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47759	The Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Branko Grcic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47760	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, dear colleague Pandek. So, the truth is the government has put investment in the centre of its attention. This is not an accident because in these five years the investment crisis in Croatia has fallen 40% and this is definitely the main reason for the decline or collapse of the Croatian economy and, of course, all the problems that arise both in the fiscal sphere and in all other spheres. What's he saying? It says that the only way to get back on the path of economic recovery and growth is to encourage investment. This was the reason why we established three key coordinations 8 and a little more months ago, so at the highest political level, which is the Co-ordination for Investments and the Business Climate, the Public Investment Coordination and the Coordination for the Use of EU Funds just to directly coordinate and control the process and to achieve more favourable conditions for things to be removed in these areas. I will say very briefly that the results of the first 6 months of work of this coordination have shown that in the public sector we have increased investments by 30% in the first 6 months of this year, which must have had a direct effect, and will have a third quarter and I would say a slight halting of further GDP in Croatia. So here we are by the second quarter results for the first time we had the fact that all of the components of GDP are growing. It hasn't happened in five years, even investments that are, of course, the most critical component. What led to the decline of GDP, unfortunately, is large imports in the second quarter, which actuated all this growth of other components, meaning both personal consumption and investment and exports of particularly the export of tourist services. What are we doing in this part of the EU funds? We've already pointed out several times, raised the use in just a year and a half with some 37% of the contracted funds. Since yesterday's data on 80.5%. I think it's an impressive result and that nothing and no one can diminish it. According to Minister Linic's report the other day at the government in the first six months, EU funds were exploited, i.e. the implementation of EU-funded projects increased by 55% compared to last year. That clearly says how intense that process was, 55%. And in the end, of course, I go to the key that you said, which is to encourage private investment and strengthen the business climate. As much as we are trying in the public sector, we cannot achieve enough effect unless big projects and large investments happen in the private sector. Why? Because the public sector is investing about 20 billion kuna at the moment, and the private sector is investing somewhere around 50 billion. Five years ago, that was 20 plus 70, and that's the problem. The decline in private sector investment is Croatia's biggest problem. We have done so through the public sector, and the previous government, tried to compensate partly, reduce the effects of the crisis. That's not enough. Only when the private sector recovers will it be enough and we will move forward. We have paid a lot of attention to strengthening the business climate, we have removed certain obstacles, we expect shifts on competitiveness scales. On one of them, we've already had that shift, and now I don't want to list all the areas where we've achieved these shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47761	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the esteemed representative Drazen Pandek. There isn't? Thank you very much. Let's go to the ninth question, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47762	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to refer my question to the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Mr. Ranko Ostojić. The question concerns something that we've heard very much in the media these days, and that's short-term funding for Schengen facilitity. Dear Mr. Vice President, I ask you to answer what the Schengen Facilitity Fund is, what means, what does this acronym mean for the Republic of Croatia and especially for its immediate entry into the Schengen area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47763	The Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable Ranko Ostojić, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47764	Dear Mr. Representative, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, first of all, I would like to wish you successful work at this autumn session. I also want to welcome my colleagues and fellow defenders whom I may not have to agree with but I also have to say that I love this country and I love the same way that we share sometimes common views and in this place democracy I always invite you to do it without any force. As far as the Schengen Facilitity Fund is concerned, I must say that these funds are designed to strengthen Croatia's capacity to enter the Schengen area. It is the amount of 120m euros in 2 years, this means 2014-2016, during which we have the money available to further strengthen capacity not only in the Police Directorate's office, but also in the Ministry of Finance for the construction of certain border crossings as well as in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the further education of officials working in consulates. These coins are designed to be spent in this period and to strengthen IT structures, connections, purchases of new vessels, aircraft and similar equipment to protect the future European border. Croatia acquires the right to enter the application process by entering the EU in 2 years, i.e. it can request an evaluation team to come and determine whether Croatia is ready to take over the EU's external border. That means the 500 million population limit. These 120m euros, of which I must say that for this year 40m euros have already arrived at our account, so we cannot talk about any redundancies, nor would Croatia at this time, given that we respect the Schengen Action Plan, we have made an indicative of our project, we will not stop at that, the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia is that we do so not because we have received the EU's homework but because it is our national interest to enter the Schengen area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47765	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the respected representative of Peja Grbina. Nothing? Thank you very much. Next, the tenth parliamentary issue in this morning's current morning and respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47766	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The issue is intended for Mr. President of the Croatian government, and it is related to the situation in agriculture and the Croatian village. In fact, the situation in the Croatian village and agriculture is catastrophic. The village is dying apparently, the ministry is silent. The closest associates leave the agriculture minister, they say he is incapacitated. The public thinks he's incompetent, the villagers are asking for his resignation. My question to the Prime Minister is Mr. Prime Minister, to which did the Minister Jakovina charge you when, despite such a condition in the vault, despite very poor grades, despite the abandonment and decomposition of the ministry and the staff decommissioning of the ministry, you keep it so safe in the government and keep it so I can speak to the staff?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47767	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question of the respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47768	Here, you used a nice jargon. Are you going to be a minister? Here, I offer you the post of minister. So it doesn't turn out he owed me Jacobine with something. No, that's what I'm asking you because your political career has been built on the foundations built with the SDP in the Križevci for years. You're a very different man now, but that's for people, too. Jakovina is a good minister, an honest man, which is good but not crucial, defender, specialist, which is important but not crucial and has a hard job to bring into order the system that you, your party and other party have dominated for years and the results are bad. A lot of money has been spent, i.e. a lot of money, and a key problem of what you call a village and I call without false pathetics agriculture production and entrepreneurship although I am a socialist and you are an entrepreneur. The incompetence, the village we once knew, disappears, doesn't die, disappears. As once the rents disappeared when the railroad came and they couldn't deal with it. Good, honest people who just weren't competitive anymore. Those who in this process in the country and in the agrarian community unfortunately became social because of their incompetence, because of small possessions, which is a problem that has been dragging on for decades, and for the past 8 years has not been solved, these people are in some way concerned by the state. These others have to fight and be more competitive and quality and be equally aware that based on a few weeks or months of work a year they can't be profitable every year, there's no such job. If every job were that way, they'd all be farmers because at the end of the year, the country would guarantee a safe profit. When it's a good season I earn, and when it's a bad season that the state and that's all the truth in this story. So we're going to have to be more competitive, more aggressive, more thinking, more vehement because the competition is strong. In some livestock sectors, we will simply have to circle in the region because in Croatia, pigs are produced annually as much as they eat in one city in Germany. We're small for some things and our space is the region this time from a position stronger than we've ever had and we have to take advantage of it. So that both the former state and Hungary, and what is happening these days and years in the food sector where Croatia is not bad, so compared to competition from neighbouring countries, of course, except Austria, Croatia is relatively strong and it is a process that goes. But remember how little money was thrown, let's be honest, to buy not even social peace because peasants are no social bomb but to buy voters. The balance of it, your party has burned on one MP, it doesn't pay off, it's wrong, it's bad, it's creating an illusion to people that it can take so long. We need a new direction, and we are in it right now, and we are headed that way by joining the EU and not all can be winners and not everyone can be profitable at all times because there is no such thing in any area of human work. Capitalism and entrepreneurship are creatively destructive, something happens, something is created, something disappears, and the state is there to allow fair rules and to those who are really hard to relax so that they can get up and work again, not without the criteria to incasise each year. It's not fair and you certainly don't raise your children, I don't know if you have grandchildren that way. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47769	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47770	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I didn't expect to get an answer to my question but we got an answer to the situation in agriculture and obviously your misunderstanding and not looking at the right state since you obviously don't know how people live. As far as my political career is concerned, I built it in my Križevci defeating the SDP, and that's how it's been going for many years. And as for your offer, Mr. Prime Minister, thank you very much, here I couldn't do that to your government, I'm the man who denied from the village who works, who creates his own hands I couldn't be the one in your sector. I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47771	Thank you very much. We continue to ask parliamentary questions. It's 11 o'clock. Mr. Zeljko Shemper, the MP and the esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47772	I thank the President of the Parliament. The question is referred to by the Minister of Health, Dr. Rajka Ostović. Dear Ministers, a recent decision by the HZZO Governing Council on increasing the price of the supplemental health insurance policy by one part of the pensioners from 50 to 70 kuna caused them great resentment and concern, especially those with lower pensions. According to official HZZO data, every other pensioner in Croatia has a pension of up to 2 thousand kuna, and in new pensioners even more than 57%. So far, pensioners with a pension of up to 5.108 kuna have had a preferential price of 50 kuna, although the Supplemental Health Insurance Act provides that insurance providers are obliged to ensure equal rights and obligations for all insurance undertakings, i.e. that the policy price must be determined uniquely for all insurance companies without exceptions. The State Audit Office also warned its reports about the obligation to set a single price for such a policy. So far, the most endangered retirement families have been protected through the exercise of the right to an additional health insurance policy on the burden of the state budget, and the number of such insurance companies was around 216 thousand or 18%. This right was used by retired singles with a pension of up to 1.939 kuna or those by income censorship of 1.516 kuna per member of the family. As pensions increased about 33% every year in the last 10 years, the number of pensioners who used the right to a free policy was reduced. The reason is that the level of census has not changed since April 2004. We in HSU respect health problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47773	A question of honor, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47774	This is why HSU sees a significant increase in the incomecensus so far that has not changed for 10 years and thus helps the most vulnerable families and pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47775	Answering the parliamentary question, Honored Health Minister Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47776	Your Honor, Mr. Schamper, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you for your question. You've stated everything exactly, so for the past 10 years there hasn't been any change in income censorship, we're aware of that, and besides, Mr. Schamper, you're a member of the National Council for Retired and Older Persons, and we're going to open a public debate on this matter. What is also a fact, the fact is additional insurance allows you to all of us to avoid participation, and as you know for yourself HZZO you and I, all our citizens, all taxpayers pay for 900 thousand unsecured persons remains "free" extra insurance. In other words, we're aware of everything you've said, for 10 years there hasn't been a change in income censorship, and we're going to open right through the National Council for Retireds and seniors public debates to which Mr. Finance and I will try to find a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47777	Thank you, too, Minister, and the testimony of the esteemed representative, Željka Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47778	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hope that we will have this topic almost on the National Council for Elderly and Retired and that with the help of the Finance Minister we will still determine some better censorship that will help these most vulnerable families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47779	Honourable representative Josip Boric is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47780	Thank you very much, President. As of today, the 11th issue has already been completed, I am in violation of Rule 132 of the new Rules of Procedure, which says that the answer of the MPs, the expression of his satisfaction or dissatisfaction may take up to 2 minutes. We have a constant minute on this traffic light. So two minutes we can express our satisfaction or dissatisfaction. We constantly have a minute and constantly the MPs interfere to say what they want because they have a right to do so. That is what Article 132 states.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47781	Indisputable MP and two minutes is undeniable. Thank you, too. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no injury because it's been two minutes all the time. Come on, please. [[It wasn't, so it's always a minute.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much for your warning, but everything's fine. We are going to the 12th parliamentary issue, Honored Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47782	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Honorable members of the government. Mr. Prime Minister, I point the question to you because I consider you to be the most responsible person in the government to implement Plan 21. In fact, with many problems in Croatia, a general strike of doctors and nurses in the health system of the Republic of Croatia has been raised today. We have information that more than 40,000 doctors are on strike today, that there has been chaos in numerous hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, which is not only doctors, primarily patients are at risk of fundamental rights, which is the right to health care. I ask you, Prime Minister, to answer me as Prime Minister, the first man of the government ready to take today to solve this burning problem, in which way you will implement your promise from Plan 21, and I quote it in that chapter Health for all, that you are aware that good hospitals do not make walls but people and experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47783	Answer to the parliamentary question, the respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47784	We're doing everything in our power and more than that. We've been left with a huge budget gap, the public sector is too expensive, the wages may not be as high as there are many people, and they simply need not savings but certain adjustments and adjustments, and that's all the truth. We also have a procedure for excessive budget deficit procedure..., a procedure with the European Commission which is a process that all European countries have gone through except Sweden and one other, so that's what Germany had. And there, we're going to have to slowly restructure and adapt to the public pay consumption sector, pensions not, especially work pensions because it's so low and so exposed to the deaths of everyday life and indifference that there's simply no space, but all of this is another topic to talk about. I see the strike as one legally civilized right of people working in the public sector, regardless of having a secure job and safer income than anyone in the public sector, but that kind of antagonism is not good to develop. So everyone has the right to strike. Strikes in Croatia may not be a daily phenomenon, in fact there are fewer of them incomparably than in Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece, incomparably less. When we look at it then it is my impression as a Croatian citizen that Croatian citizens, Croats, political Croats are part of this state, actually people who understand the state we are in, understand that the situation is difficult but it is not irrevocable and that it is not a reason for apathy. People are fighting, adapting, and actually the first crises have adapted to their budgets, budgets. The state is late in that. Unfortunately, we often lack the logic of a healthy housewife at our disposal. We're gonna have to get some more things in order. In health care, I'd say enough internal reserves, the system is too bulky, so doctors and nurses have a slightly lower salary than they should have, and I'm giving the minister full support in his work because it's a difficult resort. There are some resolutions where the results can't be seen not overnight but before, but in a year and two days. So these are processes that last. In finance, we have shown from the beginning both in fiscal policy and in the fiscalisation process the determination to change some rules of the game and some of the violations that have been committed in the system. It can be done immediately if you have the will, and the instruments thank God today there are everyone, every country, only the question is whether or not you want to do it, and it's done very well for me. The job of Mr Rajko Ostojic, Željko Jovanovic, is primarily a job that will depend on the voter's trust and this Assembly for a long time and will take patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47785	Thank you, too. Appreciation of the respected representative, Josip Salapic, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47786	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not happy with your response, and there's not a health minister in the assembly in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47787	One plus one goes all the time. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47788	I'm begging you that I can finish mine. Mr President, there is no health minister in the assembly, nor is there a need for dialogue, but today would not have been a strike if you were a responsible government man, the first man of the government, the president, the prime minister, had received a strike committee since yesterday because today it is already too late. I told you there was chaos in hospitals, and I've got information from Osijek that it's gone down in both the operating halls and the hospital in Osijek, as well as all the other hospitals. The problem is, Prime Minister, quite frankly, that you have been missing compromises and dialogues lately, not only for problems today, doctors and nurses, but also for the problem in Vukovar, the problem with the European Commission. Obviously, problems exist, and you have been closing more and more into your four walls in the government lately, and Croatia is going the wrong way. Your Plan 21 Health for all, responsibility for Croatia, responsibility for the economy, for fundamental human rights, and responsibility for our place in the European Union falls completely into the water. You have managed to afford sanctions in your incompetence instead of money from the European funds to Croatia, and today you are saying it is not a health problem, it is not a European Commission problem, it is not a Vukovar problem. And then what's the problem for you as prime minister if you're not able to implement what you just told me, which is dialogue. I call you as a responsible person to start solving the burning problems in Croatia as soon as possible, that as a responsible person, you said you were a statesman and a politician and that you were responsible for the Croatian people and the state, to take the problems into your own hands, not to throw that problem at Rajko Ostojić, Minister of Health, or Orsat Milenić, the minister of justice who was supposed to answer questions he cannot answer. Solve the problem as a responsible person or withdraw from power and call early elections, say finally that the responsibility for Plan 21 does not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47789	New 13 parliamentary issues and respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47790	Thank you, Mr. President. Question for Minister Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance. Dear Minister, there is a lot of talk in the media these days and in general about the excessive deficit and public debt in Croatia. At the end of next month EUROSTAT will publish data for Croatia as well. The media reads how Croatia's public debt approached 60% of gross social product. I ask you to explain to the Croatian public that Croatia's public debt has increased from 1.1.2012 to today from 47% to almost 60% of gross social product? What is the basic reason and what measures the Government is preparing for facing and facing an excessive deficit and this level of public debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47791	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question of the respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47792	Mr. Representative, I thank you for asking. Let's start from the end of 2010. The debt was 140 billion kuna. This year, it's going to be 190 billion. What are the biggest reasons? First of all, deficits. At eleven 15 and a half billion, in twelve 11.4 billion, this year planned 11.7 billion. So you add up all together almost 40 billion are deficits. Let's just wonder what the reasons for this deficit are. What makes us spend more than we secure tax and other revenue from the budget? Then we'll see that at the eleventh of 15,5 7,6 there was interest, interest on that particular public debt. 50% of our total deficit was interest, but the other 50% was excessive consumption. What do we see at the age of 12? Of the 11.4 billion interest went up to a little less than 9 billion. So the public debt slowly goes into deficits, and we have about two and a half billion excessive spending. That's easy to explain why we have excessive consumption. Because the former government made us about 2.8 billion expenditures she didn't pay. Agriculture is one part, maritime and economy is the second part and the Ministry of Finance is the third part. Agriculture over 900 million unpaid accounts, Ministry of Economy 500 million, Ministry of Maritime Affairs 200 million, Ministry of Finance 800 million. So when we look at 2012, we pay old debts and we pay interest. That was the reason for the deficit. In this year, we have another 11.7 billion somewhere, an estimate of the deficits of that interest exceeding 10 billion. When we look at the narrow part of the country 10 billion is a planned deficit. So our entire deficit is interest. The truth is we have a greater deficit of 3 and a half billion health care that we have paid, but we hope that the privatisation revenues will be about 3 billion, so we can say that health deficits will be covered through privatisation and privatisation revenues this year, and that's where you get the answer. New deficits are completely generated by public debt. And the backbone of every government's policy is how to stop and start controlling public debt. It's obvious that we won't pay back our debt because we can see that we can't even pay back the interest. The interest goes into a new debt. It just means that after this year we're crossing 60%, which is also a constitutional problem because we can't go over 60%, which is why the ratings are dropping, which is simply a problem of credit growth and interest prices. We're wondering what else the problem of such a major deficit was last year. Over 9 billion shipbuilding debts that we simply put into the deficit because we couldn't cover the dubioes of shipbuilding. Yes, gentlemen, we're just creating debts. We'll pick it up because we haven't picked it up yet. There are still debts in health care about two and a half billion that should also be seen if they will charge this year or...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47793	Thank you very much, Minister. Appreciation of the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47794	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47795	And to you, Your Honor. 14 questions and a respected representative, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47796	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question was addressed to the culture minister, Mrs. Andrei Zlatar Violic. Dear Minister, last week we heard and saw quite a sharp criticism brought to the expense of your ministry by a former senior official of the Ministry of Culture, and regarding the continuation and implementation of allegedly initiated projects and investments in the ministry, so I ask for us here in the Parliament and for the entire Croatian public to tell us exactly what the situation of these projects and investments in the ministry was when you took over and what the situation is general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47797	Suits respected Minister Andrea Zlatar Violić. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47798	Dear MPs and MPs, I would first and foremost join those who wished you a good year-round not only this autumn session. I hope that on all matters we will work well together and this is an opportunity to open up a subject that will be more and more frequent because it is not just about the past, i.e. through this question on which I thank Mr. Coleman. What about the projects that are launched and not completed or completed slowly, is actually our key question of how ready we are to withdraw funds from European funds. It is true, and you know this practice very well all of you, who are mayors, mayors, come from the middle where the works on the protection of heritage, on the restoration of monuments are drawn back for years and years. There are a series of churches that are being invested in for 20 years in a row, and when you're done with the 4th page, the front has fallen again. We have examples of heritage that has been restored in a way that is never in use. In Brinje, such a beautiful church is restored, but because of the fact that the key exists in the Tourist Community, and tourism there is not developed that restored church but is failing. There are three major projects that we've met and analyzed and what's happened. It is a project to rebuild the Great Tabor, a project related to Vukovar Vukedol-Ilock and never launched a project of a new Croatian historical museum. In all three cases, we have the same type of problem. The first is that the project documentation has been incomplete since the very beginning. It moves into the works without a clear goal of what it will be, and at least it takes care of what this future building, this museum, that castle that it will mean in the local community, what form of sustainability it will be, and how it will be able to be socially inclusive of the environment in which it is and which it should really contribute as added value. The second is breaking all deadlines. The deadlines don't break in one year, two, seven or eight years. The contracts with the European banks signed in 2005 and should have been implemented by 2007 and then implemented until 2009 were only completed in 2012. And the scariest thing is that during some purchases, as is the museum building and let's say the selection of the site Kerestinca for the State Archives did not take care of how profitable the investment itself is, and even the State's audit has warned here on several occasions since 2007. In the work itself due to slowness, delay and vague documentation, the costs themselves on projects rise almost 100% from what was agreed to until the end. So, of the agreed 50 or scheduled, you end up at 90 million or 100 million, leaving the so-called. outside the cost-effectives, those who were not foreseen, which means that the project was not well done. And what's important is, if we think about the logic of the transparency that awaits us, it's that most of these works on these facilities are arranged and negotiated by direct contract. So, without any or very rarely through public competitions. All of these are elements that show us that we can't work that way. Just one sentence. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]] And by our assessment of the 200 projects we're working on right now, we have... The list is probably only 10 percent really ready to enter European funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47799	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47800	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. I am pleased with the answer and, of course, very dissatisfied with the fact that it was done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47801	Let's go to 15 parliamentary issues, respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47802	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linić and it is about me a very important institute and it is a pretense settlement. In fact, I think that the public is very little aware of the effects that the pre-fashion settlement has had since it was introduced on 1 January 2013 because it is also my opinion, and I believe that many of you will agree with me, on the pre-profit deal itself in the media, we can read the most when those less important things are related to this important institute are being followed. Like the issue of constitutionality. The effects themselves, very little. So, please, Mr. Minister, can you explain to us what the effects of the pre-profit settlement since 1.01.2013 are and what are the indicators of the bankruptcy that occurred until the institute was introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47803	Answer to the parliamentary question, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47804	I'd like to thank Mrs. Representatives for asking. In the Croatian Parliament, we had a consensus in the adoption of this new law, the new law was essentially meant to resolve the enormous indifference in the Croatian economy and the issue of capital values in private companies. What I can say by September 4, this year, we received 4932 requests. Which just means we have a huge interest in the Croatian economy in solving its financial problems through a new institute that started at the end of last year. We share them on issues over 10 million kunas that are far more important for the simple reason that we have already received 549 requests there which 549 requests refer to 43 billion kunas of unresolved financial relations. And what we can say is that somewhere we've solved 55% of these requirements because they're complex, they're looking for long-term negotiations, but we've kind of accepted 107 cases by now, and we've rejected 180 items. It just shows that the law is something someone might want to abuse, but that the administrative procedure is very rigorous and that most of the items are rejected. But we solved 11 billion mutual financial claims and somehow kept about 10,000 jobs safe for the reason it comes out of a pre-fashion settlement. When we talk about small items under 10 million kunas, then I must say that there was a 3.551 request. Of these, 81% have already been solved, so the percentage of resolutions is far higher because simple objects are also successfully solved 678 and rejected 2,871. Also, rigorous administrative procedures that do not allow the abuse of the law and do not allow everyone to play the credentials, which in some way in public has tried to say that this is the possibility of playing the credentials. All of this shows that somewhere around 77% of the cases have been successfully completed, whether positive or negative or over 12 billion registered ones have been turned into regular relationships between debtors and creditors. What we must say was great support from all the believers. I'm talking about bankers here. I'm talking about creditors. It means suppliers who have accepted the system by state authorities. And most importantly, the average administrative procedure lasts 61 days. The court's confirmation procedure lasts 59 days. Thus, in the short term, we solve the accumulated problems over the past 10 years in a short 120 days. No bankruptcy has been completed under three years. And what we also need to say is, the efficiency of this process is seen because we've reduced our liquidity from 45 billion to 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47805	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'd like to thank you very much. We are going to the 16th parliamentary issue of the respected representative Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47806	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. the issue will be focused on next year 2014, but, of course, as an introduction, I must mention a few facts that you will agree with for sure because these are simply facts. Yeah, I'll try louder. So obviously, since we have a significant deficit preparing our budget rebalance, we still don't know the details of what is going to be reduced, how in some way will be balanced, we are certainly still recording the decline in GDP, and in this year we are likely to end up in total this year. Unfortunately, also the number of unemployed are here on today 315,605, 2,000 more than in August, so we haven't finished in September yet. Surely with investments you and we in the Croatian Parliament are not satisfied. This situation that we have with the European Commission, here are the Commissioners right now, so we'll see what's going to happen, whether they're really going to start sanctions, but certainly already this situation that we have so far will certainly not encourage potential investors. That's right, as soon as a country has some problem that's being talked about, no matter what one part understands, one part doesn't understand much there's cacophony, I agree, but it sure as hell won't help us. However, we need to look into the future, and we have a rebalancing and budgeting ahead for next year, so my question, Mr. President, is when you expect next year and if you expect in 2014 at all, for example, GDP growth will finally be growth that we will have something above 0,6, 0.8%, and that we will, for example, have a 14% growth in consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47807	Thank you, too. Answering the Croatian Prime Minister's parliamentary question, respected Zoran Milnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47808	Dear colleagues, the forecasts of next year's growth are for the first time the forecasts are growing, so the positive growth of both our and the European Commission and this will in itself be a success, but if the number of unemployed remains over 300 thousand it is not a success and it is currently. But I must remind you that from the bench of your party colleagues today, 400 thousand unemployed were announced which... that didn't happen and will not happen. However, this is one state of neither war nor peace in the Croatian economy in which there is no major shift at this time in investment terms. There is a financial stabilisation in the sense of introducing order to the country in this sense. So next year is according to all the forecasts, but the forecasts are forecasts, the year of growth, but the growth that is said in America is a joblast so the economy is growing but jobs are not opening and unemployment isn't falling, that's half the solution. Our ambition is that Croatian unemployment which is structural is halved. It's going to be difficult, for that we need a completely different economic model, we need a different educated structure. We have adopted a strategy or we have not yet brought it to the public debate of education and science, and we must adapt to that. I spoke a few days ago to say Austria, which is one of the top performers of the best countries in Europe, and even in the world there is a very low number of people with tertiary education, less than Croatia. Germany is slightly larger, Italy, which is also low in its problems. Some of the southern states that are now in the biggest economic crisis are a very high percentage of highly educated. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying is that it's not all about quantity but it's always a lot more about quality. And we need to know what we want. We can't start copying the German education system tomorrow if we don't have a strong technologically solid export industry, the mechanical industry, it doesn't work. So countries are wanted in these processes and these are very complex models in which once you make a decision you have to go in that direction. You have led the government, you have been in contact with the statesmen and I am now experiencing circumstances, not my own merit, more than anyone else, because I have the opportunity to work and participate in the meetings of the European Council and you know that it is not true that this misunderstanding that we have only with the European Commission, or with one member of the European Commission for now, and you know how the Commission works in these things, that this has any impact on foreign investors. It's completely unrelated stuff. Then we could conclude from this that the commission's case against the Netherlands and Ireland for serious tax offences, according to the commission, will drive all investors out of that country, they won't. Croatia has, according to the latest criteria, jumped fairly visible on the competitiveness scale, but it is only an indicator. Some much less developed countries than Croatia are more important than us on the competitiveness scale. What's the use of that? It's just one part of the story. Our legislative framework is already quite liberal and quite open to investment. Our tax system is good for investment, there is room for corrections, but at the end of the day there is no golden rule. The countries with the most complicated tax systems, Great Britain, the United States are the best for investors. Some countries with the simplest tax systems are great for investors, some are not. Some countries introduced a flat tax, somewhere it proved to be a golden variant, like a gold bullet, somewhere without any effect. There are no rules. So, a lot depends on the leadership, and we don't have any demoted status right now. I repeat that to you and believe me, in Europe no one is serious about this matter with the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47809	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The obvious answer, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47810	Thank you very much. Well, I haven't asked anything in particular about the law, amendments to the Law on the European Arrest Warrant, but when the Prime Minister mentions, for example, that the amendment of the law, for example, three days before the entry into the European Union, so amending the rules in one country, is very much a message in itself not because of the arrest warrant but rather a message to investors that this country where laws can really change overnight, especially those laws that matter to them. But let's let it go now, there'll be more time to talk about it. So I'm going to ask for a written answer because I asked very precisely when you predict this minimal growth of, say, 0.6 or 0.8% in a quarter, so not 1. Why, because the government's announcement this year was as much as I remember GDP growth. Of course, with optimism to look at, I think it was 1.8, you should look with optimism at the future in the next year, but it's important to have very clear and accurate projections. So I'm asking a written answer when it's expected in the following year, so in the first, second, third or fourth quarter. And finally, Mr. President, I protest, I didn't have a chance at first, the point proposed by our club, means amending the Law on Judicial Cooperation with the European Union in Criminal Matters, so the amendments to the law that the European Commission is just asking for, which you put on the agenda as the 70th point as we got on the agenda, now before the session was moved to 85th place. This is not a good message when we talk about the dignity of the Croatian Parliament because our proposal is absolutely equal to any other proposal and, of course, the one we expect from the Government. So they're not good messages to continue our work because in 85 places they'll never come to the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47811	Thank you very much. We have already settled this in a very democratic way and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are going to the 17th parliamentary issue and the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47812	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, since the fiscalisation project has been revived and it has been evident from it that a good part of the business in Croatia has been taking place and taking place within the gray zone, most citizens who orderly comply with all their tax obligations have welcomed this by seeing not only the strengthening of public finances but first and foremost the strengthening of business and generally civil morality. Of course there are those who attack, they're the ones from the gray area of business, which, of course, now after the tide of wealth, have a moral axis. Can you tell us what the effects of fiscalization are in curbing the grey economy and how much longer it is expected that gray areas of business will be contained by fiscalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47813	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Slavko Linic answers. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47814	Thank you, ma'am, for asking. What will be the overall effects of fiscalisation will be seen at the end of the year when citizens submit their annual applications and VAT returns and income taxes. Now we can talk about certain estimates and records that we have per sample, so I'm going to try to give some answers in that section. But let's wonder why the government went with the fiscalization regulation. For reasons why, if you remember, the government decided to help the Croatian economy and raised the obligation to submit VAT applications from 80,000 to 230 thousand. That was worth 1.1 this year, which means we lost from our records no less than 18.5% of taxpayers. It's something that meant less revenue in the state budget, and incentives to the economy. It was a measure of government. What was the second measure of government? Our assessment that we want to boost the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, so we decided to introduce a 10% rate of food and drink preparation. These were moves, again strengthening the competitive capacity of tourism. These are the reasons that we have assessed in the government that now we really need to tighten the score with those who avoid paying taxes with a grey zone in tax obligations, and on the other hand, let's be honest that a huge number of people are working on black. And what are the effects? Perhaps the best thing to say to 4 and a half thousand analyzed small craftsmen who deal with food and drink is the increase in their incomes is 65%. I remind you at the beginning of the year, they threatened to close their joints, 65% higher income. When we talk about catering, and these are serious companies, restaurants increase almost 20%. When we talk about lawyers, since they still do most of them through the jury accounts, and very little on the charge of the increase is 17%. When we talk about doctors, dentists, auto mechanics, geodetics, architects 40%, and all of this shows whatever we've got is an increase in income, stronger activity. No, it's just responsibility for the existence of the Fiscalization Act and the very rigorous provisions of that law that we have tried and determined through surveillance. We have to say that fiscalization went far beyond that, so that's the question and the market, but especially the wholesaler and the traffic of goods that were illegal. Every day you can read about dozens of tons of goods that were illegally moving in Croatian, and they were hiding both work on black and earnings that were not recorded. Thus, fiscalisation is a regulation that clearly showed everyone what would happen to those who are engaged in illegal activities in the Republic of Croatia. I personally believe that on behalf of the government, we must thank the citizens for giving them great support. But also Croatian experts, the very model of software, were programmed by Croatian experts without any error. And what's important is models copy Slovenia, Hungary and other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47815	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the answer. Thank you very much, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. 18 parliamentary issues and a respected representative Marijan Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47816	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I refer my question to the Minister of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning Mrs. Ani Mrak Taritas. More than 820,000 real estate legal requirements have arrived. On the other hand, citizens expect these demands to be resolved as soon as possible, or my question is whether this is really feasible within a decent time frame, or how much time you as a minister expect to be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47817	Answering the question of the honourable Minister Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47818	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, really, like you said, over 820,000 requirements have arrived in the legalization process. Our citizens rightly expect these demands to be resolved at one decent time. We estimate it's a decent time at the end of 2015. In other words, it means a little over two years. We have analysed the requirements and from the analysis of these requirements follows. About 10% of the requirements apply to frightened people I would say so to citizens who are insecure about whether they really need to legalise their buildings or not to submit their demands and legalisation is not at all relevant and these requirements will be relatively easy to resolve. 10% of the demands are made, it's about those of our citizens who built behind 21.6.1 or they can't legalize it, but they still submitted a request from every case in that model maybe someone doesn't see it, so if it goes by, it goes away. However, regardless of the analysis, it further speaks of a large quantity of requests. We've asked our offices, it's about 53 offices to deliver their plans and programmes by 5 September. And the plan program doesn't just mean the phone number. We asked them to deliver plans and programs at the level of a month. So every month, how many items will be solved. The offices delivered it. They delivered indeed in large numbers, more than half of the offices were those where the analysis showed that it was really feasible. Unfortunately, however, there are about 20% of offices that have set up their plan and program as follows. In 2014 they work at 30, 40 cases per month, then in 2015 it will increase to about 1000 and a half cases per month. And absolutely these indicators show they're not ready. So, we're going to go to all the offices one more time next week. That's where we're going to set up programs where every time they solve the problem, we're going to know in the ministry that they've solved it. By the end of the year, we'll let them organize in a way that is most acceptable to them. We will control at the level of a month the number of solved cases and the first time we see that instead of the reported 200 who have said according to their programme that they will solve 150 remaining 50 days in one place, and that will be a special office within the ministry. As you know, the law is complex in a way that 20% of the legalization funds go to work at the office. So, in this case, really providing funds is not a problem, and what I personally enjoy is that all offices have seen little in this plan and programme as many people as they need. And the figures show that this legalization process should employ the true God for a certain time, but employ about 550 new people. In doing so, I can say that Zadar County, which has a large quantity of requirements, which has long dealt with it quite badly and several times we were there to monitor it has already opened a tender and the first 20 people are only on legalisation jobs for a certain time employed. This model is likely to go to other counties and cities. Depending on the number of requests, the number of employees will also be fixed. So the whole legalisation process will not only result in our citizens having legal properties with which they will continue to be able to do certain activities but also the funds that will come into the state budget, and then will go back to the space where this happened through the recovery plans, this legalisation process will certainly, even for a certain time, employ a larger number of our unemployed citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47819	Thank you very much. The obvious? Nothing. Thank you, Your Honor. Nineteenth parliamentary question, respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mr Jovanovic. Generally known is the fact that the Constitutional Court in May of this year abolished your decision to introduce a curricula of health care into primary and secondary schools due to non-compliance with Article 63. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. because of the procedural violence that you have introduced health education, in particular the 4th module of that health education, sexual and gender equality and responsible sexual behavior. After being implemented, so-called "public" discussions during which you received numerous remarks on the content of health education, in particular the module 4 already mentioned, you only carried out some minor cosmetic changes. However, this content of the 4th Health Education Module still does not respect world-wide pluralism as normal democratic societies. Why, as well as the introduction of this new health care facility, in particular the 4th sex and gender equality module and responsible sexual conduct, did you deny parents constitutional law and restrict freedom to decide independently about child rearing, why did you take away the right and freedom of choice between the two offered health care programmes? Why did you not publish any observations and suggestions after the public debate was held on the website of your ministry and, in accordance with the Code of Consulting with the interested public and the Law on the right to access information, with reasons for those who would not be accepted even though you promised to do so on 31 May 2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47821	Thank you, too. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47822	Thank you, Mr. Babic, for this question, for another opportunity to ensure, in front of this High House and in front of the general Croatian public, that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in cooperation with the Agency for Education and Education, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, has provided all technical, procedural, organisational and content conditions for health education to be in all Croatian schools with the beginning of this school year. Everything the Constitutional Court has asked of us is done, all this is justified and at this point in Croatian schools we have health education or education for health as a medical and pedagogical discipline that professional and scientific beliefs and facts allow to translate into quality information for all students in all classes from first elementary to graduation. In public school, every approach must be neutral, it must be pluralistic. This is what provides health education as proposed in this way because students are offered information, information based on the profession and science for which a positive review of the World Health Organization and domestic experts has been obtained, and upon coming home, students are encouraged to talk to their parents to show them what they have been doing on clocks of all health care modules and encourage children to talk to their parents. So with absolute certainty, I claim that health care promotes children and parents’s conversations, encourages family education, and enables every parent to raise children according to his worldview. As a result, I must stress that health education in the way of learning in Croatian schools strengthens the family, strengthens each individual, strengthens Croatian society as a whole, and on the web pages of our ministry, apart from a summary of the overall debate, can be found manuals that have been evaluated with an extremely high quality and there is already interest in other regions to work on health education manuals as they were made in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in collaboration with the Education and Education Agency. So no one should be afraid of health care in schools, but thanks to health care, parents will talk much more to their children and have a chance to raise them according to their worldview.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47823	Thank you very much, Minister. An observation of the respected representative Ante Babic's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47824	I don't accept your explanation. In fact, you continue to deceive the public by making mistakes because here you can see in the latest printed manuals on health education it is obvious that it is not only about bringing out the facts and information needed to children and adolescents for their normal growth and development, but also about harsh intrusion into the most intimate parts of the personality of children and adolescents, which is visible. However, you are still somehow in your pride and arrogance, insulting both teachers and parents who do not accept your views you have proven that democracy and tolerance and respect for others are definitely completely foreign and distant. Because of your pride and arrogance and non-democracy, you have lost trust in both children and parents, teachers, but also in the scientific and university community. The haughtiness and arrogance and selectively this law enforcement is unique not only to you but also to the entire government as a whole, which we witness almost daily. You are trying to disable and postpone the procedure and conduct a referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage as a community of women and men, although the Civil Association "In the Name of the Family" has collected more than 700 thousand signatures from Croatian citizens. I thought it wasn't just you and that no one in the government could beat you, but I was wrong about that because your president had to prove that he was more arrogant and arrogant than you. Because what he does and how he treats a number of groups in Croatian society by insulting and demeaning everyone and everyone, especially this latest case in relation to lex Perkovic, has outdone you both in boast and in arrogance that borders on irrationality, which causes inconspicuous and financial and economic and political consequences and damage to Croatian citizens in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47825	A new parliamentary issue, respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47826	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. The Honorable President just before we heard the pretty inconclusive reasons for the decision that the last state bank successfully surrenders to private hands. And what were the interests and motives of the state, at the same time, by means of budgetary means, to enter into the possession of a small private failed center of the bank? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47827	Answering the question, the respected Croatian Prime Minister, respected Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47828	I understand without this correction. What's a state bank? If something rots in Germany it's the Landes banks, the province banks are state banks, it's the only system of German banking orbit that doesn't work and that's deeply burdened with debt, which just shows that there are no state banks. Deutsche Bank is not a state bank but a bank of private and institutional investors, the state inside has nothing. So there's no state banks. The state currently has ownership in the HPB which is a small bank and if it wants to develop it needs simply a strong partner and that is all wisdom and will be sold to the one who sells the most, and I believe it will offer. So let's not appeal to this kind of demagogue performance. There's no sale. The question is, what is the bank going to do, what is the state going to do with the HPB or what is the state as a 100% owner of the insurance company? You see what happened in Slovenia where there was a 20-year operation one might sound rough, but an incest crossroad and a spider network of state ownership in funds, investment funds, pension funds etc. What's going on right now? What's the big deal? The state should be present to a certain point with a boot, then only in secure gloves. And as for the Center of the Bank, it's one of the projects that was funded through funds, so through the models that you imagined in the last government, where the state made a decision based on HBOR's recommendations and opinions. A lot of things have worked out, something has failed, and there's private capital, and that's a much bigger amount than state capital, and that's what's going to happen in the future. He just can't make it. What are the reasons? It will determine whether or not the national banks, if I don't know the attorney's office, although I don't see the basis for it because such things are such examples, so the investment has more, there are many. HBOR gave a positive opinion, I could now enter into an analysis of HBOR's opinion. It's business, mistakes happen. Three succeed, one fail. If you have any other clues or other indications, tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47829	Thank you very much. Appreciation for the response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47830	Thank you very much. Ma, it's allowed to make weaker arguments stronger, but I can't be satisfied with the answer because the bankruptcy center of the bank all your arguments have been denied and have become unusable. The investment of the state in the Central Bank is pointless and inadmissible because it was invested together with the Investment Bank which has speculative intentions, and budgets are invested only in public goods and not in speculation. The state should prevent speculation, not participate in speculation. The government's goal was to make it possible, together with state budgets and deposits of state-owned companies, with the co-operation of the CNB, to make it possible for a few rich people to draw money before the hypocritical bankruptcy. And that's what a lot of people have done. The goal was to cover the truth and the occurrence of the damage and the role of individuals in this from members of the board of directors to directors of state companies and the CNB, and the damage there was done more than a billion kuna. No one has responded, no one has even been removed, and the main protagonists of these unsuspecting shops still enjoy a warm bath of unlimited powers and privileges by coming up with new financial perversions and state damage transactions. Well, only at the center of the bank and the Credo bank took our entire Peljeski bridge. Participation in the Center of the Bank and intention with Croatia's insurance and HPB is not an economic measure. These are sub-ideological measures with long-term anti-national consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47831	Thank you, Your Honor. 21st question representative and then a 15-minute break, respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47832	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is Minister Mrs. Gristle. Ministers, you are moving towards reforming labour legislation and reforming the pension system. I see that the announced amendments to the Labour Act again reduce labour rights, and the Pension Insurance Act deepens the age-limit for retirement. Some feel that workers have too many rights and are just cost. If you feel the same way, then it would be best if we abolished the Labour Act and all labour rights because by amending the law you announce to workers that they should work up to 60 hours a week, that they must agree to a lower salary or get fired, you offer employers to pay less damage to workers for illegal cancellations. I can see from your solutions that some workers will never see retirement. In Plan 21 you wrote that the worker is not a slave, and you're doing exactly the opposite of that, so my question is. Do you really think that construction workers, textile workers, waiters, merchants, kindergarten aunts, nurses in hospitals and health homes can work for more than 60 hours, and whether with a lower salary in exchange for quitting can secure a healthy life to work up to 67 years for retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47833	Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47834	Thank you very much. Your Honor, before you qualify for things, I suggest you read the statement on the impact assessment of the Labour Act. Unlike previous governments, the impact assessment and negotiations with trade unions and social partners, with the academic community, with the expert community began far, far before, and if you look at the statement of the impact assessment of the Labour Act, you will see there that the things we have declared, which is that we will increase the safety of workers, but that we will allow employers easier restructuring of businesses, are the goals we want to meet this law. And this populist cry that the Labour Act will reduce workers' rights and that they are workers of goods, the Labour Act protects workers and the Labour Act is one that should always protect those who are weaker. When we talk about working hours, working hours are still in tourism and catering during the season extended and worked 60 hours a week to make it less of a second period. If you don't know that, I'm telling you now to look at the current law in which it clearly stands. On the other hand, we are aware that in certain manufacturing processes it is necessary to extend the working time for some time, that it is more burdensome and that this work is paid, if it is overtime to pay for this overtime work. We know that the store and other branches have been working and sometimes for a long time, without the work being recorded. We remember an example of an hour earlier at the store, an hour behind. Therefore, we want this work to be recorded, that this work is paid and I absolutely reject your thesis that it will work 60 hours, so on average you should always work 40 hours a week, or 48 hours with overtime, and it should be recorded and paid. And with these amendments to the laws that we are now doing, that part will be paid and registered and sanctioned because the labour inspectorate will now be able to control it because it will be clearly visible. Also your statement that by extending age, that this will lead to a deterioration in the position of workers, not Mr. Representative. The extension of the retirement age, I am sorry that you were not at a meeting yesterday in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts where we have clearly shown that Croatia must create new jobs, that in 15 years in Croatia we will have about 370,000 jobs open, and because Croatia's older will not have people working in these jobs. You could also see, then, that when 2030, or 2020, the retirement will be enjoyed, so if the 2030 extension of the retirement age is expected that the pensioner will enjoy a year longer than the pensioner is now 65 years old. You could also hear that the extension of the retirement age is something that awaits us and that we cannot avoid because Croatia is old, because we will not have labour force, and on the other hand we want to ensure that the 2030 pensions, in the '40s, so pensions us, but also our grandchildren and our children must be 60 to 70% wages, which means that we now have to make changes in the pension system, to do so and this government is determined to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47835	Thank you very much, Minister. Appreciation of the esteemed representative Zlatka Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47836	I'm not happy with the minister's response because you've hardly achieved anything since you've been promised. In two years, 30 thousand are more unemployed, 25 thousand less working, 270 thousand citizens have blocked gyro accounts, and the wage drop in the last month is 100 kuna. So I doubt at all that citizens can hope for anything better. I don't think those 16 million kuna smartphones of yours are going to help you solve these problems either, or to establish any severed ties to Plan 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47837	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now we're gonna have a break for 15 minutes. I'll see you here at 12.25 with the follow-up of the current morning. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue to work in the current morning. Now there are 22 parliamentary issues and respected representative Vanja Posavec. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47839	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister and members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanki Opačić. It's very short and clear. Which is why you decided to go ahead and propose a new family law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47840	Thank you, too. The answer to this question is Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47841	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Madam Representative. So the decision that made us decide to go on a very serious reform change of family law is a few. First because we have more and more traumatized children due to conflicting divorces. Second because we have a completely inefficient system in the fight against manipulative parents both in the judiciary and in the welfare system. Second because parents have the right as children to contact and after divorce, most are not allowed at this time. And the fourth is that, unfortunately, we're in the Human Rights Court first now on charges. And the last lawsuit that we, therefore, lost by Croatia, cost us about 15000 euros somewhere. So that's all the money paid by Croatian citizens. In order to stop all these processes, we set out to amend the Family Law. Those who object to this law are actually people whose vanity is far greater than interests and children and this state. So, vanity because they didn't join the task force. It's my political choice. I chose professors from all the departments in the Republic of Croatia who had the courage and knowledge to write this law in accordance with the best European practice, but also to align it for the first time with the conventions that many of these ladies had signed before me, but did not implement them. And because of the lack of respect for the conventions we have signed, and we do not also pay the great penalties that the European Court is constantly giving us. So many professors who weren't, that my decision wasn't in this task force, think the law should have changed cosmetically. However, when you read their writings a year ago, they talk about the Family Law being seriously reformed because we have more and more lawsuits. So they're aware of that, too. On the other hand, these same teachers, I own a note from the Faculty of Law and the Department of Family Law in Zagreb, said in January that they did not want to, the whole department must not participate in the making of this law, that they will spit the law, literally those words, spit the law when it comes out of the parliamentary procedure and have also made all of them stop the progress of those professors who dared to work in this working group. Now, that's no longer my ministry's problem, nor the government's problem. This is the problem of the academic community because it is a pure racket of people whose mission is to pay for the money paid by taxpayers at universities and to put their knowledge into the role of improving certain provisions and laws in this country. So, so much for the work of the academic community. And once again, I have to say that I am proud of all these young teachers who have had enough energy and strength to make a good law in these years that will really help protect the system, but primarily children from manipulative parents in the conflict divorce process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47842	Thank you, too. It's obvious that the esteemed representative, Vanja Posavac, is here. Nothing, thank you very much. We are going to the 23rd parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47843	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is for Mr. President of the Croatian Government. Croatia's economy records 7 quarters in a row of unemployment declines and this summer, despite the quite decent results in tourism, 30000 unemployed more than in 2011. The construction sector has already failed. Only in the first seven months of this year is 30% less issued building permits. The Croatian industry is at a loss. Therefore, exports dropped almost 5%, the turnover of the Croatian industry nearly 9% compared to last year, the number of employees decreased significantly. Health care is also collapsing not only today, but the waiting lists are increasing, doctors leave Croatia as well as nurses. The other day, here's the minister suggesting, the other day my baby was in the hospital, got six months off the period of penicillin syrup. So not only doctors but generally young educated people from pure hope leave the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the budget is not only a hole, but I'm afraid there's a black hole and it's swallowing everything around it since the estimates say that unfortunately it's going to be 18 billion, maybe more deficits this year. Of course the consequences of all this is that our national rating came into the trash and not long with negative prospects. I don't know what a negative look is when it's garbage. The answer to that is a Buddha why and at all costs privatization of everything and everything. You like English expressions to the Prime Minister. It's called the English fire room. So, when you sell everything says the minister from your government is all about the sale except for the woods and the water, probably another year, then in a year I guess the woods and the water. The highlight of everything is the fastest work and conflict in history after someone has become a full member of the EU, working with the European Commission and working with our most important trading partner Germany From what I hear, let me just ask a question. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] So the question is whether you are truly supported by your coalition partners and even by members of the SDP. You're aware of your responsibilities and I don't know where the limit is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47844	Thank you very much. Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47845	In this House, you've forecasted joyfully and with the smile of 400 thousand unemployed, they're gone. So you're not a serious commentator or a serious acquaintance of this issue. But you didn't intend to ask this question, it just doesn't make any sense to answer. We don't go into any war, we go into argument, and I'll always act like one and represent the country. I will not gambling, I will not bring her to death, I will not take risks that are unreasonable but that I will allow her to wipe the floor with Croatia, to speak falsely, that I will not allow slander. I will stand in the protection of the weaker ones in Croatia, I will respect Croatian laws, Croatian constitutional laws in Croatia, because this is, above all, the center of the event and the Homeland, and I will be consistent in this. As for European laws, directives and their transpositions into Croatian legislation, I will often allow myself to be creative and interpret them as all normal states do in Croatian interest. Which you and I can't just interpret the same way. There is a part of the politicians in Croatia who are home robbers and abroad. That's not how we work, and that's the fundamental difference that will burden our relations and relations with the authorities and the opposition because we're different. Therefore, the European Commission is not a Member State. Judicial cooperation takes place among Member States. We're not taking away a milligram of rights that we don't have ourselves and we don't have a right to. And that's how I'm gonna behave to the end. There's nothing there, Schengen facilitity is a very nice thing, we'll start using it when we need it. And so we can't in the first half of the year. You know, these 40 million that they paid us in 1.07 because of the dynamic consumption, we still can't spend. That money stands. It's so with Schengen facilitity. And in which state is the rule of law, in which the rights of citizens, minorities, etc. are respected.? This is what Croatian friends abroad see. This topic is simply second-rate, it will continue to traumatise our public for a while, but our deadlines regarding all the goals we set are clear. We are a member of the EU, and I look to you for nothing for a little self-respect, not pride, because pride often grows to pride and contempt for others but self-respect. The European Commission is there to keep the contracts, so if you need to use a stick and sometimes hit you and be exotic in it and it is up to us to act civilized, which we do, to choose words that others don't do and we fight for our interests. The European Commission is the guardian of the contract, but is not an interpreter of the contract. The interpreter of the contract is the court, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47846	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47847	I'm not happy with the answer since we haven't actually heard where the border is. 500 million euros in structural funds, when will you finally change the law and return lex Perkovic to where this problem should never have arisen? Don't be angry, but over the last 23 years HDZ has been in many times more situations than not to allow Croatians to wipe the floor. So you have no right here in this assembly to give a lecture to us at HDZ for someone to let the Croatian delete the floor. But yeah, no one would have started a fight in a club that he just entered and tried to get into for 10 years. So, for the first few months, at least you're not trying to create problems about what you signed willingly. You participated here together with most of the HDZ majority then to end the negotiations. You took power at the end of 2011 after two quarters of economic growth. The decline in unemployment, growth in investment and completion of EU negotiations. I tried to introduce before my question to count everything that went wrong for this country. You haven't answered a single question. How will you stop the departure of young educated people from Croatia? Not just in the EU, Canada, Australia. Out of the despair of 50-year-olds from Slavonia, they move out. What's your answer to that? Nothing! You said how much, 40 million euros, and 40 million euros is the problem today. And as for your credibility for a year, we've been asking you to return the low-level railway project where HDZ, the HDZ government, set it up last week as I hear it, the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County finally took that plan exactly as predicted by HDZ after 6 months after you gave up that same project. What credibility can we discuss, Mr. Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47848	Thank you, too. Next, the 24th question and the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47849	The question is for the Minister of Health. At the beginning of your term, you agreed to a reduction in health insurance contributions from 15% to 13%, thus reducing the annual income of the public health system by about 2.5 billion and you were aware from that moment on that time that you were inheriting between 4 and 5 billion kunas of debt expressed, unproduced, quite anyway left to you by your predecessors. You assured yourself that the quality and quantity of the compulsory health insurance rights will not be reduced. Today, a strike of hospital doctors and nurses, which I express solidarity not only because the problem in the collective contract, but also points to the state of the system, the lack of about 4.5 thousand doctors, 12.13 thousand nurses, is a one-sided hospital system financing system through restrictions that unilaterally determines the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. You're conducting a god-awful recovery of hospitals, and you're actually patching up a bad financial system started in the 1st of July in '96. and behind this is actually hiding the abolition of departments, services, polyclinics, clinics in certain hospitals because you want to do some of the services as much as you can to inaccessible insurance, which is further from them to stimulate those who have money to go to a privateer. You're increasing the supplemental obligation by the poorest from 50 to 70 kuna. My question is, are you ready to ask for a health contribution to return to 15%, an additional 2.5 billion for public health care in Croatia or as a responsible and moral person to offer your resignation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47850	Answering the parliamentary question, Honored Health Minister Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47851	Thank you very much. ... Mr. President. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I don't like to talk about myself, but I'm going to quote you as a responsible and moral man I'd repeat that, lower your contribution from 15 to 13%. Why? Because we have reduced the labour price and our workers, our product has become more competitive. According to responsibility and morality, I now quote you, I would do the same. On the other hand, unfortunately, we had to raise VAT in absolute terms is exactly the same budget, it grew paradoxically but has grown in the last year. You're right, the Clean Start has shown that we've inherited exactly 5 billion kunas and, yes, we're introducing order and law into disorder and lawlessness and that's what we're doing. I'm sorry that you're using the esteemed Mr. Lesar word nakaradani, I'm sorry that you're doing this because the funding of the current hospitals is under the DTS system introduced by my previous Mr. Milinović. So those hospitals they're working, they're gonna get more money. Ms. Vesna Fabiančić is from Velika Gorica or Mr. Shuker 6th city in Croatia with no hospital size, they come to me on Rebro, in... in a crowd under the sirens for 40 minutes. Varazdin, the Chakovec where you come from, Mr. Lesar is 11km away by bicycle and one 33 minutes, walking 1.45 minutes, by car 8 minutes. Yeah, we're doing a master's plan at the hospital, so far they've talked about it and we'll do it. Thank you for your question, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47852	Thank you, Minister. It's an indication of the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47853	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In Croatia, democratic elitism is booming, most are always right and you will always prove that you are the only one who is right, and the minority should be silent because whatever he says is wrong. I'm sorry that you accepted such behavior, because in the meantime, when you were an opposition representative, you didn't cultivate and cultivate such relations between the minority and the majority, you are now unfortunately doing so. The economic impact of the reduction in health contribution is zero or liquefied, it has become a profit rather than a reduction in labour prices that would increase our competitiveness, which shows you the data on economic developments in Croatia. By reducing the contribution, you have povertyed public health and nothing more than the reduction of VAT in catering profit has been increased. You are announcing that you will privatise or as you say in outsourcing to give all of the healthcare support activities and you have infected a public-private partnership as sensitive a sector as health care. Some people who are dealing with speculation on the market are already looking forward to it when you are going to do so so that everything you can give to privates and get rid of the public system. There are about 640 thousand patients on waiting lists, all you do is stimulate them and make those who have money go to privates and that's what's called the Americanization of public health in Croatia that you quietly spend because all you've done is stimulate them to go to private because public health services are getting smaller and smaller. And in the end, who will benefit from your reform and all reforms back 9, 10 years? Peacekeepers and pension funds because, unfortunately, people will live shorter, private people who will be rich on the public health system in these auxiliary activities and don't let God do that, funeral companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47854	Thank you very much, Your Honor. There is a 25th parliamentary issue and a respected representative, Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47855	Thank you very much. My question will be addressed to the prime minister of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47856	You reported the question to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47857	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47858	That's how it's written to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47859	It's misspelled.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47860	Okay. Okay. It's not. Please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47861	I refer my question to the prime minister, let him, and I don't know you misrepresented him then. I do, too, if you'd like to review your question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47862	Your Honor. Just to let you know, you let me tell you what's right and then we'll see what anyone will allow, so your club memo, your question has nominated Rajka Stojić the Minister of Health is here before me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47863	No, my question was addressed to the prime minister. It could be a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47864	Whose misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47865	And I don't know whose. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47866	Mr. Representative, there can be no misunderstanding when we get an official memo from the club, I don't know what a misunderstanding is and where it is but there can be no misunderstanding here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47867	No, I want to ask the prime minister if the prime minister won't. I'm the one who set it up. If my parents at the club were wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47868	No, no, you'll ask there's time and you can ask every minister in writing that's not a problem. write a letter to every minister and you'll get an answer. Thank you very much. If you ask the Minister of Health how it was nominated according to the Rules of Procedure you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47869	I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47870	Thank you very much. We are going to the 26th parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Zeljko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to Gordan Maras, Minister of crafts and small entrepreneurship. Given that new jobs are rapidly opening in the small entrepreneurship and craft sector, I am interested in whether the Ministry is planning measures to further facilitate the business of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, i.e. whether they can further reduce the operating costs they have on the basis of parafiscal duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47872	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47873	Your Honor, I'd like to introduce you. The cameramen need to know who's answering. Minister Gordan Maras responds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47874	I don't know if Mr. President could ask me a question like Jasen Mesic. ... And it's not, according to the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47875	No comment with the MPs. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47876	Because I hear voices from the audience. ... Thank you very much for asking, dear representative Mirkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the first two years of its term of office, the Croatian government has done a great deal to relieve the economy. A little while ago, Minister Ostojic was told by Mr. Lesar, a reduction of 2% of health contributions, something he said in one matter before Minister Linic, which is raising the VAT threshold from 80 to 230 thousand kuna, or disbursement that they do not have to worry about paying VAT in those deadlines even though someone did not pay them. And the other thing, the reduction in VAT in catering from 25 to 10% is the discharge that has been felt by 20 thousand craftsmen and at least 15 thousand other companies engaged in catering. So we've done a lot. In addition to this first year of mandate, we reduced the parafiscal burdens in the Croatian forests, in Croatian waters, but this is not the end. This year we also have a plan to reduce an additional to a billion kunas of parafiscal burdens to companies and crafts for their easier business. What is particularly important to say, I am a position and the Croatian Government is this attitude that what entrepreneurs and craftsmen pay must be shown in certain services. And for this reason, I will personally propose as Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts in the second reading of the Parliament, it has already gone to the opinions of other ministries, voluntary membership in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so that 85 thousand Croatian craftsmen from 1.1.2015 may decide which services they will use in the institution that needs to help them on the market, and in this case the Croatian Chamber of crafts. 130 million kunas each year provide Croatian craftsmen with contributions to the Croatian Chamber of crafts and we simply have to have this clear situation whether and how many people benefit from it and ultimately whether they want to. I also believe that other chamber organisations must form on a voluntary basis, and I am convinced that in a few years in Croatia we will stop talking about Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen having to pay contributions, not using those services at all. And that is why the Croatian government is going decisively further towards reducing business costs. And you've noticed, in small and medium-sized enterprises there are trends positive, we have 12,000 more employees, we have only 8 thousand start-ups this year. There is Minister Milenic, who, along with me, has proposed a company for 10 kuna, 8 thousand new entrepreneurs this year. People are self-employed, using measures and colleagues, Mrsic, and in small and medium-sized enterprises, trends are positive. I'm sure we'll have even better results this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47877	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Obviously a respected representative, nothing, thank you very much. Let's go to the 27th question and honorary representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47878	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished presidents and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Minister of Labour and Pensions, Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Dear Ministers, there is more and more talk in the public about the need to revise disability pensions. There are various data and contradictory information, it is mentioned that more than a quarter of the pensioners are receiving disability pensions. After more than 20 years of poor management in the pension system, it is time to clear up and introduce order. Can you tell us what the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or as a resolution minister, is doing to clear up the situation and introduce order into the pension system, especially the disability pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47879	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Miranda Mrsic, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47880	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, yes, it is true, Croatia is the first place in Europe. We have over 25% disability pensions from the total number of pensions. Neither is the Croatian country where air and the environment are so polluted, nor are jobs in Croatia so badly protected by measures of protection at work that they have so many disability pensions. This is also the consequence of those robberies and privatisations when people were forced into disability pensions to make it easier for businesses to sell, but on the other hand, the consequences of both bribes and corruption in the area reigned for a long time and knew exactly what the cost of a disability pension was. Clearly, most people who are in a disability pension are entitled to the disability pension because they simply have damages that they could no longer work, and on the other hand it was... that as soon as they got a certain disability to chase a person into a disability pension instead of assessing his residual job ability and moving him to another workplace so that he could end his working life and have a full age pension. The Rubala affair is the tip of the ice dream and that affair is over. We have taken 44 disability pensions, and now the trials before the court are under way to return non-refundable profits, so that the funds that these citizens of the Republic of Croatia have received for the bribery of Dr Rubal for years. It is also under way to review all procedures in which Mr Rubala was a member or president of the commission when the first-degree solution was revised which was negatively positive after the second-degree solution. The Ministry of Labour and Pensions has established a separate department. I call him CSI for disability pensions. No disability pension can be paid in the Republic of Croatia without that department doing an audit and confirming that the procedure and documentation itself is neat. However, what was limiting us was limited by the Pension Insurance Act, which did not allow for and when you found that there was a reasonable doubt that it was a false disability pension that the documentation was missing. We have files at the Pension Insurance Office where invalidity pensions were granted after only one single finding of specialists without any other specialist findings, and that is something that raises suspicion that those disability pensions were earned illegally. We have, by amending the government's regulation, and will now come before the House of Amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, allowed us, under our official duty, to initiate the revision of these disability pensions that we find suspicious. And it's just the process, the regulation came into effect on Monday, and we said we'd clean up first in front of our own house. Within the Pension Insurance Office, we have over 600 employees who have a certain degree of physical disability. Nor are the conditions in the office so difficult that we have so many physical disabilities and the calls have just begun for these people to report for a check-up. We also set up medical engineering centres, so an independent centre that will be outside the health system that will be entered under the code. Nor will you know which warlocks they will be with, but no witch will know who is coming to them. And we are also introducing a system that will revise disability pensions in a way that people will be invited to review themselves every 3 to 4 years. It's an oususus in the world, and it's supposed to be for us. All this goes after those who have disability pensions not belonging to them...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47881	Thank you very much, Minister. Appreciation of a respected representative? Nothing. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next 28 questions and Honored Representative Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47882	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the Honorable Minister of Health. For more than a decade, it has been said about the construction of a new hospital in Pula that should contribute to the increase in quality and health care and health standards, but also something that is very important to ensure the rationality of operating costs in one location. In the past 11 years, concrete steps have been taken in particular by the institutions of the Istrian County that have resulted in the resolution of the necessary issues, so that a valid confirmation of the main project has been in place for 4 years and complete tender documentation for the construction of a new hospital has been resolved. Furthermore, in a good part of the amount needed, the credit from the business bank was secured in November 2012 and in March of this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to grant a state guarantee for the same and the procedure for the outcome of the remaining necessary amount to be settled through the HBOR started in July 2012. I therefore have specific questions for you, Mr. Minister, and I ask you a specific and answer. When the issue of the remaining part of the HBOR loan will be resolved and when the citizens of Istria can finally expect tendering for the construction of a new general hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47883	Thank you, too. The Minister of Health, Honored Rajko Ostojic, answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47884	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Sponza, very briefly and clearly. By September 30, all these years of course, everything you said taxed is completely, absolutely correct. The government of the Republic of Croatia has provided guarantees of 300 million kuna. The remainder was sent to the European Bank by HBOR, but the European Bank requested the subsequent documentation provided by Pula General Hospital. The European Bank should also be manifested by 30 September. Whether or not they're going to ask for some more documentation, how it's going to prove, of course, that we don't have a crystal ball. But Istria County as the fifth county largest with 22 million overnight stays, the town of Pula as the eighth largest city in Croatia is definitely worth a new hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47885	Thank you very much, Minister. And the testimony of the esteemed representative Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47886	I'm happy with the answer. Satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47887	Thank you very much. We are going to the 29th question of today's morning and the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47888	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Ms Milanka Opačić, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth. Dear Vice-Presidents, as high priorities of your ministry, you announced the transformation of the deinstitutionalisation of the rehabilitation centre Stančić and Zagreb. I'm particularly interested in what stage did you come up with? What has been done for the protégés and what can we expect in the period ahead of us?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47889	Suits the respected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47890	Thank you very much. So this question was relevant as much as I remember in these last local elections when a lot of politics got involved unfortunately in a single population where the correctness policy should still be removed because it is a very sensitive population. Fortunately, here's the process. So, I have to say that both in Stančić and in the centre of Zagreb, so the process started in Sloboština so that from June to September we moved the first 85 users into the housing communities. Of this, the biggest step was made in the center of Stancic, where 40 users from somewhere from June to September started living in 10 residential communities. And another 30 users are fully prepared for regionalization, which means they're going to go to some of these similar apartments, housing communities, in those environments to be much closer to their parent families. On the other hand, by the end of the year, for 2014 we plan to start living from both homes to residential communities about 170 users and another 30 who need to go to regionalisation. We got most of the apartments actually from AUDI. So these are apartments either untapped by the state or obtained by court proceedings from people who have been found not to have the right to this apartment and we have taken these apartments and used them for these housing communities. This process is extremely important for those with intellectual damage at the moment in institutions because this makes their life much better and better. These people, after 20 years, 30, how who, staying in an institution for the first time with professional help in these apartments learned how to follow the laundry, how to turn on the washing machine, how to cook coffee, how to clean the apartment, some of them may have slept in peace for the first time, unlike how they lived in certain institutions. So here's a big step for them, really thank you very much and the parents who gave us support because without them, without employees in those centers and users themselves, we couldn't go into this process. And I think it's a big step for these people in Croatia because it really raises the quality of their lives to a much higher level than what they've had so far with all the care and all the care they've had from these employees. And here, the employees did a really big job over the summer. Many of them did not ask for vacations because they were interested in living in new housing communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47891	And the obvious? Thank you very much. The 30th parliamentary issue, the respected representative of Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47892	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs Vesni Pusic. Energy stability, energy independence, exploitation and supply of energy, energy policy which ensures and guarantees the security of supply to households, which crosses the borders of the national economy. It is today an energy policy that has an exceptional impact on international relations. The Croatian Forum, held in October, 3rd and 4th in Dubrovnik under the heading "European Energy Security", should certainly provide certain answers to how Croatia's role in the EU's energy stability and security role, both of course and in ensuring and energy stability, Croatia itself. What are the main objectives of the forum, namely the Conference "European Energy Security" of the Croatian Forum in Dubrovnik?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47893	Prime Minister Vesna Pusic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47894	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, thank you fellow MP. So, "European Energy Security" is the name of Croatia's forum, which takes place this year on 3 October and 4 October. As you know, we had a tradition of such large international gatherings, and even at the summit level, this year, at a time when it was usually held, we had a celebration of our entry into the EU. We are holding a Croatian forum on the subject of European security, but also on the issue of long-lasting Croatian geopolitical independence. So we are also witnessing in European and global terms the fact that, in modern conditions, geopolitical independence and sovereignty depend largely on energy independence, i.e. the diversity of sources, and so harshly on preventing the country from being brought into a situation where there is a supplier who can close the valve and dictate the price of energy or even the availability of energy. In this respect, Croatia has as usual one great advantage and that is the position, the geopolitical position. At this point, it is in a position to secure the supply of energy from at least 4 different sources. Therefore, it is a topic that is directly interesting to us, on the other hand, it is also a light-motive theme of the Lithuanian EU presidency in this semester. And that's what I'd say geopoliticals, foreign policy if not today but then certainly tomorrow's. So, in cooperation with the economy ministers of countries and energy ministers in some countries where this exists, we organise the forum at the level of foreign ministers. So far, we have about 15 confirmed participants at that level and about 300 participants in total. We have 3, there's an imaginary discussion in 3 panels or 3 kind of round tables. The first will be the role of energy in international relations. Another will be the role of energy policy in the EU. And the third will be energy security and the south corridor gas. That's particularly interesting to us. Of course, all the topics are interesting for us, but this topic is particularly interesting because we have managed to get gas from Azerbaijan to Europe so-called. "Southbound." So, in the direction that so far goes that top direction, which so far goes through Turkey, Greece, Albania in Italy, the idea is to withdraw from Albania on the eastern coast of the Adriatic, so our Adriatic coast is a pipeline which would also have the gas coming to Europe, and that is also the purpose and debate of the forum's organisation on this topic. Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47895	Thank you very much. It's a sign of a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47896	I would like to thank the Vice-Presidents and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. I am extremely pleased that Croatia is not only the organiser of the conference but also the impact tomorrow on EU energy flows and that it will be an important factor in supplying not only national needs but also the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47897	Thank you very much. We are going to the next issue of 31st Honored Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking the question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Rajk Ostojić. A number of structural reforms are under way in the health portfolio, which are of course tasked with introducing the structure or introducing order into the system. I'm interested in the indicators of one of the first projects you've launched, and it's about public procurement in the health care system. So the question is, what are the results of the project of united public procurement, or what are the savings obtained? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47899	Thank you very much. The Honorable Health Minister Rajko Ostojic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47900	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The joint joint procurement project has so far launched 40 competitions totalling 2.3 billion kuna. We realized the value of 1.5 billion kuna and savings from exactly 380 million kuna were achieved, totaling 25%. I'm only gonna single out 37% or a 29% cast, and to be plastic, gypsum, I broke my arm three times. So that simple gypsum, for now, Mr. Shakespeare, that simple gypsum when we break a hand was bought all over Croatia, and we saved on it some incredible ones, and I was expected 5 million kunas. That's another proof that we're bringing order into a mess. And data from two days ago, we opened generic drugs conducted by KBC Zagreb Rebro preparations for the treatment of immunobodulators we managed to lower the price by 69.99% by 70%. Thank you very much. And by doing so, of course, we have not at least compromised the availability of health care but we have saved resources that will naturally be smarter, more efficient, more rationally used for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you very much for this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47901	And to you, dear Minister. The obvious? Nothing, thank you very much. We are going to the next issue and the question of the respected representative Josipa Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47902	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will refer my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. First of all, Mr. President, you are badly leading the Croatian government, which means state, institutions and its citizens. A little less than two years ago, it didn't seem like it, remember? You were chasing Croatian and sending messages, Croatia is beautiful at dawn, you said you had a plan. Unfortunately, after two years, it is clear that you do not have a plan, and this is the improvisation we are looking at daily is of the Croatian citizens and voters, the same ones you told on the election night after the result that you will not fail them. What's our present? The state cash register collapses, not to mention in caramboll, taxes and VAT among them the highest, reduced salaries to everyone in the country, tens of thousands of newly unemployed. On the last day of July, 270 thousand Croatian citizens were blocked and 21 billion in debt. How was the summer? Half-empty markets, closed catering facilities, presses never bigger. Tax inspectors, you've turned the right harrakes that have led to the absurdity of certain tax oversight situations. The result of your policy after almost half a term is this: citizens live harder, lose their jobs, stay without pay or do not get it at all, stay without their real estate, many and roof over their heads, do not know how to buy children books, how to pay for more expensive directors, do not know what brings them this winter to eat, 100 kuna in the store no longer worth anything. What did you offer them as a solution? The policy we're witnessing these days. I'll paint it, we don't let Perkovic eat weed. It's a solution to these accumulated problems. Question, Mr. President, when will you have mercy on the Croatian citizens of those you have successfully deceived and taken off their backs because the burden of your policies can no longer be borne?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47903	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47904	Are you ready to call early elections or create procedural conditions or will you insist on this policy, no goals, negative trends, deep ideological division of Croatian citizens and Croatia under sanctions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47905	Thank you, too, but self-will is not good. Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47906	Dear colleague, this is an evolutionary progress in relation to your predecessor Mr. Milosevic's issues with the goal of provoking me, but it's bad enough that I can't be as bad a prime minister as you can put together bad questions. It's hard to mate. Then where's your party president? Lobbies for sanctions Croatia abroad? Intruder: What does that have to do with anything? So I have to ask that, but as polite as possible, it's simply about the leader of the opposition, that's what it's called, which wasn't here when the Croatian draft budget was discussed, not voted but debated, I don't know where he was at the fairies. I used to be away a lot, and I criticized myself for it well, although I spoke twice as many of my predecessors together, but there was little, I agree. But it shows responsibility to you gentlemen and also to the Croatian public. You have now read the whole miracle of some terrible data, I suppose, so that people would fall into aphasics, so they would go mad with despair. I don't see it as politics and don't mention it, don't mention it, criticise it, invent it, insinuate it, but don't mention the names of people who were close associates or stretches of you close people in party and party president, that's unfair. And no one has called you for it, no one, because I don't know some things and because some things I don't know, and it just rings how much things don't make sense to us, we're going to set up an investigative commission where there's room for the smartest of you. And those who say that investigative committees serve nothing are wrong. The investigation committees solved the Lenac case, it was led by HDZ, they solved the case of trucks, or they didn't solve it, it's a lengthy procedure that isn't over, but the commission led to the prosecution, they opened the case of the INA, what a magnificent performance it was in your direction. So the investigative committees are the path to truth when you don't have the documents that have been destroyed when it comes to one dimension that even historians can't explore, to see who was hiding evidence, who was making it impossible to investigate, who was preventing procedural measures that would break out of date, and now it wouldn't be obsolete at all, but now we have to break our heads so that the Constitution can end the statute as an act of conversion and privatisation, so that all the hard killers can be tried. It means not only political murders but also children's killers, people who have been killing from low initiatives. It's actually good that this story is open, it's good because Germany, let's say, has, heavy murders don't get old, if you hadn't run this avalanche, we'd never have come to a solution that's actually civilized. So the heavy killer can't be quiet. Let's say there was an indictment against a man yesterday at age 92. All I have left to do is get my shoulders down and wait for the court's justice. He's got justice. Justice is slow and resourceful. Finally and for the man you mention justice here is here before him, Croatia, Germany, today and at the latest for 7 months, it is short, very short. Be patient, don't be impatient.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47907	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47908	Thank you very much, President. Here we heard no answer to my question, and that was clear, so are you ready to call an early election? But before that, this is about Tomislav Karamark. I didn't know he had to call you when he went somewhere. It should probably become some new practice. But something else. This is the reality, Mr. President, of this reality today I also read the opinion of one of your distinguished clubmates. He said you live in a parallel universe. Perhaps it would be good to return to this universe, to this air of ours, because these are the problems of Croatian citizens. I didn't make them up, I didn't cut them, I didn't add them, it's just the reality that we live in today. A responsible statesman who wants to make order in another yard in the European Union, and cannot make his own backyard a better life for those who have chosen, cannot allow them prosperity, that is the question to be answered. Croatia needs a new opportunity, these may be early elections. And I'll remind you of your predecessor, the late Hansel Racan, who said we could lose the election, but not face. Unfortunately, you seem to have lost face long ago and you're losing the election in a row. The next thing you know, it's obvious when you want it. However, Croatian citizens are becoming more and more difficult to live for and such policies and such divisions are much more and therefore I have asked them such a question on behalf of them, because I say once again, this country needs a new opportunity. Whether she'll be yours again or someone else's decision may be made by them, but these answers they certainly don't need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47909	Your Honor, there's one mistake you're doing I believe on purpose and it's not fair. You make your own views and your own assessments as notorious facts. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We are going to the next question of the respected representative, Jaksa Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47910	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. A representative question for Mr. Hajdash Doncic. If you could expect the completion of the road between Trogir, Solin, Omis with the bypass, within which time, whether it was partial, it was in whole. Just a few more notes to say. They still call that road the road of death. In the past 10 years, 110 people have died there, so I really think there are a lot of reasons for this road to finally end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47911	The Honorable Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47912	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor. So the stock you're talking about is 45 km long and is one of the priorities of Croatian roads because it satisfies I will say all economic and social criteria of construction. So we're also talking about the average annual number of cars passing on that stock, and we're also talking about so-called. ...or asphyxiation that occurs on the mentioned stock. It's divided into 3... in 3 below the shares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other... It was built completely and remained this part of 5 and a half kilometers from Kaštel Staro to Kaštel Gomilica and remained a part around Omis, i.e. project Cetina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is good is that the Croatian roads have prepared, so project documentation and within 30 days will discuss the competition for this first... 5.4 km divided into two below shares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first one bought 94% of the land and 70 percent in the second. There is a problem with three illegal objects, i.e. Three illegal houses built on a separate route. However, the present to say, Mayor Kaštela is actively involved in the resolution of property-legal relations and we believe that within 30 to 45 days, Croatia's roads will call a tender, so for this stock according to the rules of the European Investment Bank which is also financing the project. As far as the Cetina project is concerned, so we are talking about the bypass of the town of Omis Croatian road, together with Juspers, have completed the optimization of the project and it will be run, so 2014/20. year, so in the programming period as one of the priorities of the Croatian roads for co-financing by the regional fund or even by saying so... which means that I can announce within 45 days the latest tender for the first part, and in 2014 the competition for this part which is not so far to say that it does not have a building permit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47913	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative, Jaksa Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47914	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer, and let's just wish that road was finished as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47915	Let's go to the next 34th question, Vice President of the House Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47916	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, my question is addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Which is why neither you nor your government reacted to Mr Vojislav Stanimirovic's interview about 3 months ago, quote: "We have our textbooks, we study a newer history in our own way, different than in Croatian books. We left out the chapter on the Homeland War, because we still think it was a civil war." This has been transmitted by many Croatian media. Mr. Stanimirovic's statement has not been denied, and to our great surprise you have not been manifested at all, either by you or by your minister of science, education and sports. If it is true that in continuing history, students of Serbian nationality and textbooks who use them do not learn about Serbian-Cretical aggression in Croatia, that is, about the Homeland War, how that as prime minister, you have done nothing to make such a shameful and potentially very dangerous failure in the education of children of Serbian people who are therefore not developing a civic awareness of belonging and loyalty to the Croatian homeland correct. What could be your excuse for that? This does not just mean that textbooks and teaching history throughout the territory of Croatia and in all schools are not uniform which is unacceptable but also means that it directly violates the Croatian Constitution and the Declaration of Homeland War, which was brought by this Croatian Parliament on 13 October 2000. Since the aforementioned statement by Mr Stanimirovic is such, and you have not responded to it, I believe that this is an unequivocally harmful re-incentivation of the division and polarisation of Croatian society similar to that of the totally unnecessary and unnecessarily harmful expression of and causing tension in Vukovar by setting up Cyrillic plates. Does this mean, on the other hand, that your government is changing its position on the Homeland War, especially in light of your own civil war statements? How will you explain all this to defenders, families of more than 14,000 dead Croatian civilians and defenders, more than 30,000 wounded civilians and defenders of more than 1000 children and finally all Croatian citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47917	Thank you, too. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47918	Dear fellow, I'm asking you, it's a Serbian-cetical aggression that I think we've grown a little out of it, that in this House we don't have to use such expressions. We know what we're talking about, we're talking about the enemies of Croatia at the time. Many of them were abolized, so there was no persecution against them. By the decision of Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, we have all supported this, and those who have committed crimes will never escape you, and we will persecute you. I don't know if what you're saying is true. Here I am, now that you've been asking a question with your colleagues, I've been talking to you. No one has heard anything that just says how much this thing has echoed, and now they tell me that Mr. Stanimirovic has denied it by bringing me into a very unusual position. So that's one assumption of principle in logic. I can't claim that's true. If it's hypothetical that it's true, I don't agree with that. Now, that members of the Serb community in Croatia especially in Eastern Slavonia have the right to education in their own language and letter, where of course delicate history, is not delicate mathematics and chemistry, but history, and that this programme is always something different, that we have and it is not segregation. It's their choice. Am I the happiest with that? And I'm not really. Would you be happier if everyone went through the same program? I would. Whether in this way Serbian girls and young people are actually segregating, but they have in the beginning a minus for inclusion in the Croatian higher education system that is a fact. Is that why they go to studies in Serbia or Vojvodina? Yeah, but that's all I can say. So Croatia was a victim of aggression. It is in Croatia and please do not misquote me, so since it was a conflict of citizens of the same state of different nationalities that have the same nationality or elements of civil war. But he wouldn't be here, gentlemen. We're not in a sacral facility. So this is, we're a democratic society, a liberal society that's being discussed. When your neighbor who is a citizen of the same state and other faith attacks you then you are attacked by your fellow citizen, and if that's what helps the army that's from another country, then it's aggression. And it's mostly aggression and assault. But don't! So this isn't Puritan time, it's not the time before the reformation, we haven't seen the devil. You don't need any sighs. So we need to talk openly about some things. It does not diminish our burden, our sacrifice, and our just cause. The enemy is the enemy! If he's committed crimes he'll answer, no one will. If he's killed and organized the killings of emigrants that some of these days on the commission are insinuating in a very ugly way, what we're listening to here, it's very ugly. I'm not going to repeat now whose associates they were. If it's all true, it has to prove it. We will not give them any refuge, let them judge them, above all, in Croatia. I believe in the Croatian judiciary. You who do not believe, you who, after 20 years of government in Croatia, claim that there are institutions and structures here that protect former members of the service, look at this kind of self-injuring politically, so why didn't you catch them more, why didn't we catch them? Who's protecting who? And that's why we need an investigative commission. It wasn't our intention, I didn't dream of it. So I'm taking you as a serious man seriously and I believe you think you're speaking correctly. I'm told my colleague Stanimirovic denied it. We will never fully agree on this, but during the war Stanimirovic was an opponent, now a Croatian citizen, so he has a complete... He's absolved, it's our law, and you don't have to be best friends, but we have to accept him, he's one of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the Croatian state, this is the Croatian Parliament here we are equal, its name is John or Ivan it is anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47919	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the Honorable Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47920	Of course I must first tell me it's clear to me that you don't have the necessary sensitivity because you followed the Homeland War, of course, only through television. And what you just said is a little scary, to question whether Croatia was exposed to aggression or only to internal conflict. I'm very surprised, but of course you pulled the whole question in one other direction. Just like you do all the time. You are, in fact, imposing constantly world-wide ideological issues to cloud the complete failure in solving the economic crisis and the difficult situation in which Croatia is now in place. And of course you expect that with stories of artificial insemination, European arrest warrants, sexual education in schools, all of what you've just said, which was not at all my question at all, you're actually expecting citizens to discuss, on the basis of that, in harsh debates, world-famous ideological issues, and that they're actually forgetting huge unemployment, on growing poverty, on increasing taxes, that EU measures will be imposed in Croatia due to excessive deficits. official supervision of a state which is unable to manage its finances properly, and which you are managing, etc. So, all of this distraction from economic failure to the world-wide issues is being guided in principle by some people having bread and games, although we see that thanks to you games there is more and more and less bread for both Serbs and Croats. And what is important to say, after the complete fiasco of your foreign policy in relation to the European Commission, you pulled it out in your response to the arrest warrant, just now came a statement from the European Commission to initiate the procedure under Article 39 for Croatia. The measures therefore include enhanced supervision and suspension of the Schengen Instrument. So it's not a problem in one person as you said two, three hours ago, but in the whole committee. After all, after this fiasco finally admit that they live badly in Croatia and Serbs and Croats and finally leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47921	Thank you very much. New representative, 35th, question and respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47922	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Mr. President, I don't know what world you live in or what universe you live in but we don't seem to live in the same space at the same time. Today, you are trying to convince the Croatian public that no sanctions will be taken against Croatia for disrespecting the European arrest warrant. On today, however, on 18 September 2013, the REUTERS Agency, which you will admit, has just announced that the European Commission has today launched a procedure set out in Article 39 which will ultimately result in increased monitoring and suspension of the Schengen instrument. by depriving money and delaying entry into the Schengen area. If you don't trust REUTERS, here's a European Commission memo. One of the projects that has a lot to do with Schengen is the Peleski Bridge. Isn't it indicative that although the European Commission announced this on 18 August, it did not publish a study on the best solution to connect the Dubrovnik area, or the Croatian South with the rest of Croatia? If, for your own reasons, the European Commission does not want to finance the Pelješke Bridge, because of your conflict with it, will your Government continue to build the Pelješke Bridge and will you provide funds for this project in the next budget, so for 2014? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47923	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister, Honored Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47924	Your esteemed colleague hasn't been around for a while now he'll be happy again, the style hasn't changed and I look forward to fighting with you, but only with parliamentary clashes. Look, so when the European Commission makes decisions, then it does not work as the former HDZ government, the European Commission is seriously considering it. But to our encouragement, if you want to do my thing, after everything that's happened to us, and I still don't promise us there's no other than that bridge, it's simply going to happen because it's two parts of the EU territory. The corridor through BiH is obviously too complicated and you have no one to agree with. I'm sorry about that, I think it's a quick and cheap and safe solution, it's not working. Therefore, the bridge will happen. Don't liquefy, so this is the European Commission's communication. There are a lot of Member States and countries will say their opinions. Some will be isolated, many will say what they think, many will say that this is excessively suggested by the European Commission that it is simply excessive, that the disproportionate level of non-compliance. It's got to be a serious offense. What we have is theoretical inconsistency. I remind you again when we speak publicly that Croatia is at the moment of legislative changes regardless of motives. You may think that our most groundbreaking motives were in line with the official text of the official EU Journal which issues the European Council. We acted on the Croatian version of the text and admitted that there was a possibility that it was a mistake. You can't be more polite and clearer. If anyone wants a reckoning, I understand it's politics, campaigns are, closer to the 14th Mandate of someone's commission, it's all human, I have to go to elections even though you don't have to. But let's stand up for that bridge together. I can do perhaps more than you, your colleagues in Brussels may be able to do as much as necessary, mine also from the SDP and I guarantee you since this is no longer the time for your former boss and your government to do so in the right way. What else can I tell you? I can only tell you that soon I will have to go and apologize to my colleague Djakic, who will be answered by the minister when he asks the question because there are no more questions for me because I have to talk to one of our enemies at two o'clock. So we talk, we communicate, we consult. This only now left the committee without a vote because it was under Agenda A with member states at the Justice Department. So for now, this is all very much under the radar. Reuters released several thousand news today, so that's the news, so of course he published the news, it's a decision to communicate the European Commission. But don't gloat, you're wrong. In a month and a half you will realize how marginal this thing is, how much is not of the interest of Europe how neutral it is for Croatia, how much of our deadlines and Schengen and Schengen facilitya we will fill in time and how we will fill this bridge at the end of the city with European money in most because it is inevitable, but 10 years ago it was a push because we were unseriously speaking and planning something we couldn't pay for. Now that we are the most incompetent government in Europe, that will happen. It's just that we're in the highest number of violations, and that's what's going to happen, and you'll see when it's built. Not because I am good or capable or Mrs Pusic or Branko Grcic but simply because it is obvious, so it is the only piece of the EU that is in power in that country that is discounted or corridor or bridge. It's not much of a mind. The time has come for this at last. And I'm glad you're back in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47925	Thank you very much. An indication of the respected representative Frana Matušić's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47926	Mr. President, I'm not, of course, satisfied. How could I be pleased when you just now saw that it's a discontinuity, we've been saying it for the last 10 years and we've started working the bridge and you can see what we've been doing. 300 million kuna was invested and you stopped it. In 2009, you asked to get off the budget, so don't, it's unfortunate that you're talking about the Peljesac Bridge today and it's unfortunate that your government obviously does not intend to finance it with funds from the Croatian budget. You can do what your colleague Maric said, do not finance private banks and private firms, finance a public project that will bring well-being to the Croatian south and connect Croatia to one whole at last. Do it. And secondly, Reuters has published this as breaking news, open their site, and you will see the breaking news of Croatia's sanctions and the envisaged measures that are all foreseen by the European Commission. I'm saddened I expected you to answer like this. I am not liquefied because we fought until 1.7. we fought in the European Parliament that Croatia has no post-monitoring and your colleagues know it from the SDP because it was hanging in the air until the 7th month and we fought for Croatia to have no post-monitoring, and you have today provoked it to reintroduce it, so it will introduce monitoring and will unfortunately delay funds from the Schengen Rays. But I'm not so surprised at you since you've already been naked in front of the Croatian public and even in front of those who supported you, but I'm surprised to see the lady next to you sitting next to you pretending to be a fighter, and today we see that she was an alleged European standard fighter to keep quiet about this situation and that we don't hear any position on the sanctions imposed by the European Commission today, it's really sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47927	Thank you very much. We continue to ask questions, the 36th parliamentary question and the respected representative Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47928	I thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic. Dear Ministers, in order to increase the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, a reduced VAT rate has been introduced in tourism, so can you explain to us what the consequences are, and what are the effects of this reduction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47929	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Slavko Linic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47930	First of all, I want to comment that today all my issues have been economic issues and that the Government has something to say about the last year and a half has something to say and therefore I will repeat once again that over 3 billion kunas reduction in health contributions to the economy of a billion-and-a-half kuna retained profits, retained by the foundation of reinvestment gains is not paid tax. Incentive to the economy of 4 billion kunas, agreed reprogrammes to companies in debt, aid to the economy. The reduction of VAT in tourism, although indirectly boosts tourism's competitiveness. Therefore, all support, support, support for the economy, hence a very serious economic policy for rehabilitation and the private sector, to strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian societies and the battle to keep jobs. These are government activities, at least in this part of the tax policy. Now we're coming up with some weird critics, because they're not critics, they're trying to say you didn't do anything for the economy. As you can see in one time huge problems in the budget because we don't have economic growth, huge incentives for the economy. And now on the one hand you don't give anything and suddenly there are critics again in the part where we decided to give support through the reduced VAT rate on tourism. So it's basic to try and just attack the government. I can simply interpret all those who feel that the rate of tourism should not have been reduced. Why did we cut the rate in tourism? First of all, VAT is never paid to export. And if our tourism is an export product, it is. This year's tourist traffic results show us that 88% of foreign tourists' overnight stays are also 83% of foreign tourists. So we can still say that tourism is an export branch. And then it was also the reason why the government decided whether to introduce that step was guided by the principle that it was an export branch. But there is something else, we act in the Mediterranean, we act in the environment of our competing countries in tourism and battle to get these tourists in Croatia is very important. So for comparison, for food, I'm not talking about accommodation, France has below 10% VAT, Spain below 10, Cyprus below 10, Italy and Austria, although it is not in the Mediterranean but is one of the stronger tourist countries, 10% as well as Croatia. Only Greece and Portugal do not have a reduced VAT rate on food and drink, but Greece and Portugal have a 6% accommodation compared to Croatia which has 10%. Therefore, it is also a battle in our environment to be competitive. Whether it's our hotelers, our caterers put it through a reduced price or not, it's now a matter that we can assess their policies, but that's what led the government to lower its rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47931	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative Lidija Bagarić. Nothing, thank you very much. Let's move on. 37 questions and respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47932	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Slavko Linic. Mr Minister, last year, at the initiative of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Tourism at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the year, the Croatian Parliament took an unexpected and interesting step, which is that the amendments to the Law on VAT temporarily brought down to 5 months the level of mandatory VAT on imports of foreign vessels that were at the same time on temporary imports to the Republic of Croatia and thus created the possibility of excise duties, customs duties, VAT, actually paying here, and not in countries where these owners come from. The opposition at the time claimed that it was a ridiculous measure that would not get any relevant results but even more so, that would endanger our domestic shipbuilding. Mr. Minister, what is the effect of this measure, how much did the Republic of Croatia actually profit from such a single move that both our colleagues from Italy and Slovenia and some other countries were very, very angry and jealous that we did it almost at the last minute, ahead of that big finale 1.7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47933	Thank you very much. The Minister, the Honorable Slavko Linic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47934	I thank you, Mr. Representative, for asking. Yes, another measure of encouragement in tourism. Realising that we were threatened that several thousand vessels would leave Croatia, that our marinas would have less income because of this departure, since we were also afraid that all those service services, supply services would no longer be part of Croatia's work and part of Croatian revenues in commercial societies, we accepted the initiative of the Tourism Committee. The direct effect on the VAT charged is over 300 million kuna when we observe that direct effect in the budget in just 5 months of use. But what's important is to say, there are 720 boats left in Croatia up to 7 meters, 1315 boats over 7 to 12 meters, over 600 boats larger than 12 meters, and huge boats, yachts 335 and sailboats that are also interesting over 1100 pieces remained in Croatia. Therefore, over 4,000 vessels have not sailed to the Adriatic, remain in our marinas and will use all services of the Croatian economy. It's this huge and encouraging tourism. It may just have to be noted that, when we observe where these vessels are from, then of these 4126 vessels 3318 is from the European Union, which meant fear and fear of the common market and simple foreign flags, so we have managed to solve this dilemma and retain both guests and vessels. This is perhaps what we can say that in this year when we observe 17% more employment in tourism than in earlier years, and the very announcements for investment in the following year show that on 2011 it will be 224% or 120% more investment in both marinas and hotels as a direct effect and measures related to VAT, but also direct storage effect and this part of tourism services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47935	Thank you, too. It's an indication of the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47936	Mr. Minister, the fact that the state budget has been revenueing over three hundred million kunas out of this measure alone is actually great news. I would take this opportunity to congratulate you for having heard the initiative from the Croatian Parliament. But I would like to thank, above all, the financial or customs administration, as well as the tax administration, and also to all those who have made a huge contribution in this system because in a relatively short time, very much has been done in education, coordination, reduction of bureaucratic procedures and from port captains to all those involved in this work in the field, everyone has shown an extremely high interest. This is an example of one of the measures that good synergy can make a great impact. In any case, expect more similar initiatives from the Tourism Committee, all in order to make more income but to create new opportunities for new jobs. Because let's not forget as strange as it seems, every permanent bond generates one job in Croatian tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47937	Thank you, too. Before we do four more parliamentary questions, I want two notices. First, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Honorable Representative Frano Lucic, informs that the meeting, held on the 23rd session of the Committee, will be scheduled for 19th of this year at 12.00 p.m. The same day tomorrow at 10.00 in the same hall Janko Draškovic 202. Secondly, after completing the current morning, for 4 more parliamentary issues, we would only do the first item of the agenda Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and continue tomorrow at 9.30 with the second point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act, etc. in accordance with the adopted agenda. And thirdly, I would like to ask the presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the committee to hold meetings and discuss all the issues that are just on the agenda for this and next week. Now we move on to the 38th parliamentary issue and I call upon the honourable representative of Damir Rimec to submit the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47938	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture. Dear Ministers, during the recent protests of farmers who were this summer, you kept saying that Croatian farmers or as I like to say to food producers, that is, entrepreneurs must turn to the future and that we must see that we are better prepared for the new EU common agricultural policy and all that it will bring to us in the future. In fact, we all know that over 300m euros are available for rural development, so I am personally interested in what direction our food producers must look at and whether the ministry is really ready to help people on the ground to solve their problems. So, what is specifically done in the Ministry of Agriculture on this point, when concrete results of this work will be visible, and at the end of which you will build a strategy of agrarian production or a strategy of agrarian policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47939	Thank you, too. The Honorable Minister Tihomir Jakovina answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47940	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow, yes, I have repeated and repeatedly reiterated the need to turn towards the future and continue to implement the reform we have begun. Public policies related to agriculture, the food sector, which is also the way the agriculture ministry functions and manages itself for ten years back, has, in fact, a constant stagnation and negative trends that we have encountered in all sectors of agriculture and the food sector. 40 billion kuna has almost been paid for various forms of support in the last ten years, investment support capital and more. What did we have? Whether our Croatian producer, whether farmers produce more, better, cheaper, more competitive. Were they ready to enter Europe? I'm afraid not. I don't want to do it this way, and there's no colleagues in Hrga polymize, at least not so primitively with personal insults, but I must also mention the remarks made by him and his colleagues and by calling that they have actually had the possibility for almost 10, 12 years to direct the portfolio or be a coalition partner and that they are responsible for these negative trends that mark the Croatian agrarian. When we talk about what's coming to us, it's just a little bit more dyspression. When we were to prepare and practice in some way for funds, the generous funds available to us at the SAPARD and IPARD pre-accession funds. And here I'm surprised to hear from some colleagues today in a debate with potential fear, millions of euros we're going to lose over sanctions. I wish my colleague Jandrokovic had taken care of the usefulness of what was already available to us when he was a member of the government. And all I'm going to do is repeat that our SAPARD funds for the sixth period, the ninth used only with 15 and a half million euros, and that's where we lost about 16 million euros. The IPARD for the whole ten and eleven years was used only one and a half percent of what is available to us. 50 million went down. In 2012 usability was over 60%, 16 million euros were used. In this year, 80% will be used, at fourteen and fifteen we will use 100% of what is available to us. The most important thing we prepare and work on is the rural development programme. It has been working on it for months as well as any most important strategic document on which it is working is in making very serious, studioy, participatory with everything... More than 30 workshops have been held throughout Croatia, public debates on the rural development programme, and it is at a high stage of completeness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the 20 measures that we will have at our disposal so that we can withdraw more than 300 million euros a year that will be available to us, we have defined some 17, 18 measures that we have assessed based on working with all the partners here, I mean primarily on agricultural producers, crafts, companies and others involved and who will need to apply and use these funds, the measures where the use will be the largest. When we talk about it, the three main objectives are to increase the productivity and competitiveness of Croatian agricultural producers and the food sector, then sustainable management of natural resources and even regional development. We'll use that through these measures and through this use of funds for sure. And once again, I want to say that both I personally and my team, but also all honest agricultural producers in the Republic of Croatia expect that through these rural development measures through this rural development programme through the continuation of reforms will actually forget these stories of '41, '71. Or '91. I am interested in 2021, I am interested in where the Croatian farmer, the Croatian producer 2021, and we want to make through reforms and through this strategic document the same conditions, the same productivity, the same income as the Austrian farmer and other developed EU farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47941	Thank you very much, Minister. Appreciation of a respected representative? Nothing. Thank you. We continue to ask questions. Now it is up to the respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic and the 39th question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47942	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question was addressed to the EU Minister of Regional Development and Funds, Mr Branko Grcic. Dear Mr Minister, after 1 July, Croatia is a member of the EU. Which means that the counties, cities and municipalities will have to be the bearers of activities aimed at attracting funds from EU funds. Unfortunately, many of them have not prepared well for this, are not well teamed, do not have enough resources to effectively write projects that will also result in the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. What I'm interested in is what does the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds do to help counties, cities and municipalities in this segment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47943	Thank you very much. It answers the question asked by the Deputy Prime Minister, the respected Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47944	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Hajdukovic, so the question is, I would say the target is right in the right place. The preparation of the projects is certainly something that is extremely important throughout the EU fund absorption process, especially here since 1.07, when we see a much larger amount of money that can potentially be withdrawn from the EU funds. What's going on at the state level is a bunch of project preparation that we're going to absorb that money from. Thus, the reconstruction of rail routes especially in EU corridors, in particular the regulation of water supply systems from the disposal system and the specific management of waste disposal sites. It is a few billion euros that will be invested in these projects by the end of the new financial perspective, so by 2020 but also beyond that. But what we lack in this whole story is local projects. And in order for local projects to be implemented first, they need to be prepared, and then they need to be provided with money for their co-financing. Both are at this point in time. My call to all the mayors here who are sitting but also to all those who are not sitting in the Assembly today are somewhere in their offices in cities and, of course, all the mayors of the municipalities are invited to actively engage in the preparation of projects. Our ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development, is helping directly through the financing of project documentation to prepare these projects. In the last year, we singled out 30 million kunas, unfortunately we only managed to spend 10 million kunas because there was no proactiveity at the local level and asking for money to prepare projects. We have self-initiatedly set out to prepare 32 projects worth 550m euros, so very serious projects, but the activity must be even stronger and stronger. This year, about 40 million kuna stands at the expense of those needs. We have 600 reported projects, selection of these projects that will help and do project documentation and finance in all phases, so from the idea project to the final project documentation, the construction permit will naturally be selected in a very soon time and will be supported on our part. Where particular attention should be paid to this is the development of capacity, i.e. education and education of people at local and regional level, strengthening development agencies as key coordination institutions of this job at local and regional level. We intend to through the new Regional Development Act to connect counties and cities and practically commit them to all engage in the preparation, organisation and financing of the work of development agencies. Today we have very bad standards in that segment. On the one hand, we have strong county agencies, and unfortunately city and local agencies, with rare exceptions, do not work well. And we need to change that, and we need to connect these capacities, and they need to take care of the preparation of local projects. And we're here to help them in every way, with education and money. And we'll keep at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47945	Appreciation of Honorable Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic? No, I don't. Thank you very much. The 40th parliamentary issue of the respected representative Franja Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47946	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question was meant for the Prime Minister, but as there has been some obvious error on this occasion, I ask the question of Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Given that the current government has reduced incentives for approximately 1.5 billion kuna to Croatian farmers compared to the previous Croatian government acting as HDZ. I ask you what is the formula of the existence of the Croatian village or Croatian farmer, and the Republic of Croatia has entered the EU, as we have previously claimed in HDU that the Croatian farmer must not enter on his knees in the EU. SDP's governments happened? Where is the survival of people who deal with agriculture if we know that 50% of farmers are missing, especially cattlemen? What kind of policy is this towards Croatian farmers?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47947	The Honorable Minister Tihomir Jakovina answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47948	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Lucic, I have, in part, answered this question in the last answer, but I will repeat it again. The public policy of managing the agriculture sector as one of the most important strategic branches of the Republic of Croatia's economy back 10 years marked negative trends in all sectors of production. You mention livestock, that if we're talking about dairy beef, it's a fall. We had 58 thousand producers in 2003 when the Reference Laboratory was opened in Križevci, 14 thousand of them were when I became minister. For each segment we can do such an analysis, I speak about 40 billion kuna is invested through various support, through investment projects, through capital investments, without the right effect on increasing production to create added value, on the color preparation and competitiveness of our agricultural producers. In the good years when we had GDP growth, there was not enough loops and determination to move towards reforms that should already be launched in order to make the entire sector more competitive and more ready to join the EU. We do not know from 23.12.2011 that we are entering the EU and that we should prepare ourselves, for what was done badly in my mandate, me and my team will bear responsibility and for this we will get or not get trust in the next elections. But it's a process to prepare and work for years, unfortunately not. We want to talk about land reform? How many failures have been made and how much is not allowed for our agricultural producers to have a basic resource for the development of agricultural production. The designations of originality and geographical origin in the way we give added value to our products, how much this has been done and how much success has been made on it. The other day I signed solutions for the Slavonian tower and for the non-retva mandarin, it took 10 years and our producers tried to protect this excellent product of our Slavonic plane, failed. Not to mention the dozens of millions spent on the Vinkovci Development Centre and on the protection campaigns for the same tower, there were no results until a few days ago. The whole system wasn't good enough, it wasn't prepared enough and it wasn't built as a service to agricultural producers and to all those who needed to be served. That's what we do, that's what we do using the reform funds that we started, the organisation of agricultural producers, producer groups, organisations, cooperatives, market regulation, greater controls are what will bring fruit. I wish that part of these reforms had been done long before would have been much more ready and much better in this demanding competition that we have on the big new market. The creation of third markets, the opportunities provided to our exporters and our food and processing industry, which is a natural continuation of primary production, should also take much more time than we have at our disposal. We're going into reform, we're doing it seriously, and the results will be seen, but overnight, everything that's been done for 10 years, we can't do it with a magic wand. In a way with the pumping of constant additional support, intervention and the rest, we actually created social peace in the country, we did a privileged caste of wealthy agricultural producers and we bought votes. Comrade Hrg... the guilt of this minister and this ministry in the way they worked led to the fact that not a party but a statistical error, unfortunately, but most difficult for farmers who had no opportunity to develop how they were to develop and prepare to join the EU. Now we're doing it and we'll make sure the results are seen very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47949	Thank you very much, Minister. Appreciation of the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47950	Ministers would disagree with you because a lot of what you said doesn't stand. In fact, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I have simply asked you through a direct conversation, but also in writing, to answer me how much financial envelope the farmers were going to receive this year, how much money they were paid and how much money they had left. Every prime minister in this country and you as a minister when someone wakes you in the middle of the night would give it five minutes. For 47 days, you should have answered the Assembly Committee on Agriculture one simple question. So if you're going to answer 47 days from which we're going to get information so that we know at the same time those people who are interested in this answer because otherwise they couldn't get that information in the Ministry of Agriculture or elsewhere where they were looking for that kind of information. Today, through a few words, the Prime Minister himself has been told you're exultant. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues here today no one is exulting, here we are all concerned about the survival of the Croatian state both in agriculture and then in the policy we are leading as foreign policy. and so nobody exults here but we are all concerned about this situation in the Croatian economy in Croatian agriculture because with such policymaking as it is being led by today's SDP really leads to ruin and very soon we will find ourselves in the position of those countries that today have far bigger problems... /The speaker is excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47951	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47952	Croatian agriculture is going in one negative direction with this kind of leadership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47953	Thank you very much. And finally 41 questions and respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47954	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Although I would rather ask a question to the Prime Minister who knew that my question would be the last for him, I will ask him today as a defence minister who is also a member of the Croatian government. In view of the contradictory statements by Finance Minister Slavko Linic and Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic and their interpretation in the media about the announcement of a reduction of so-called Preferred pensions, I ask you today as Minister of Defence, and on behalf of the Prime Minister, you are clearly aware of what is going on, to make it clear whether you consider Croatian victims of the Homeland War and the families of the dead Croatian defenders to be privileged. Whether the reduction of pensions will apply to Croatian defenders, disabled people, families of the dead or whether you know that hundreds of decisions on the disability of members of the Croatian Army have been made in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the southern battlefield are under way. In the same trench, in the same second, mine from Virovitica and the Shukers from Livna were killed on the same battlefield. Whether it is a new persecution, demeaning, insulting of Croatian defenders, victims of the Homeland War, families of the dead Croatian defenders, as well as during the past SDP of the Government, and whether you as minister of Croatian defenders and as defender, believe that there was a civil war in Croatia or it was a Yugoslav aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47955	Thank you very much. Defence Minister Fred Matic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47956	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, MPs, Mr. Djakic. I am honored to answer your question, thank you very much for your last question. So here's a few of you asked questions in this one. First of all, in terms of privileged pensions, so we absorbed this three years ago, not to mention defence and loss pensions that were privileged than those pensions were acquired under special regulations because the category of defenders and victims is very sensitive to that name. If we put our hands on the heart of course there are regular pensions and those that are called privileged, but I am also in agreement with the fact that there is no use of the term that irritates the defenders and I have talked about it with my colleague Mrsic and with my colleague Linic and everyone who mentions those categories that this is a sensitive issue for us defenders and I have their consent and their support about it. As regards the reduction of pensions, therefore, no definitive and final solution has been reached, however, Croatian defenders are not an island in this society and as well as other categories of society must be prepared to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis and the problems in which the Republic of Croatia was found. What I know and what I've been saying since the beginning of my term, my fellow ministers, also know the prime minister, so my last line of defense in a possible and possible pension reduction tomorrow are Croatian wartime disabled, 100%, first category, which will not be related to children of the dead Croatian defenders who still have and who are regularly educated. All others, which refers to those who have more pensions, will also be kept in mind that Croatian defenders with smaller pensions than a certain amount will also be excluded. These two categories I was talking about are my last line of defense that I've been talking about all along. If Croatia is not able to pay off pensions for these categories then we have really come into serious problems. As for our friends and comrades from the Homeland War, members of the Croatian Defence Council, so says one proverb that there are people who cause problems and there are those who solve them. The problem began 15 years ago, I don't have to remind myself of who made the problem, but the problem will solve this government, these ministers who are in charge of that portfolio. So for those respected advocates who do not know the background of the story, because of the three greedes of lawyers and 200 gullible defenders, the fate of the 10009 family of Croatian defenders of members of the Croatian Defence Council for whom the Republic of Croatia has taken over. I am not talking about those who took over in 2006 by means of an interstate agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are working to protect both the state and the state budget because if all these defenders filed lawsuits as did these 200 that, one journalist calculated, Croatia cost 62 billion kuna, which you will admit is a luxury that Croatia cannot afford. We will also work to ensure that these families are not damaged, they are here, they have been living in the Republic of Croatia for 20 years and we will do everything we can to make this problem as small as possible and to deal with the consequences as little as possible. I don't know if this last part should be answered at all, so this is one false interpretation that the prime minister has already explained several times, so the Republic of Croatia has been aggressed. I don't know if anyone's still in doubt about it, I don't think anyone, but some clumsy words drawn from the context can lead to false interpretations. So the Republic of Croatia was exposed to aggression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47957	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Appreciation of the respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47958	Well, Mr. Minister, I understand everything in your answers, but I can't be completely satisfied with how you've forgotten that 3500 dissuaded in the past term of the SDP government has experienced its satisfaction with exactly the lawsuits, the interest lawsuits, full-fledged solutions, second-degree solutions and administrative courts and municipal courts and county courts. It cost hundreds of millions of kuna to the Croatian state. I'm afraid the same fate won't happen again now. Will we again experience and experience such traumas and us and our friends who, along with us, have defended the Croatian homeland alongside us. Do such blasphemy and such traumas even need someone more whose individuals... Get out of the way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They tend to do anything to sanction someone. It's better to find a common way at the table. Today, when some treat their frustrations for their inability to run the state over the back of Croatian citizens, mocking the open wounds of Croatian victims, especially by violently introducing Cyrillic into the heroic city of Vukovar by calling defenders a group of chauvinists. They forget the sacrifices they made in the defence of Croatia's common dead as one Corps in the country and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because of this attitude towards Croatian defenders and their suffering as well as the constant violation of the dignity of the Homeland War, especially that there was a civil war in the country. You are aware yourself that in the 2012 report, 416 Croatian wartime disabled people died, that 1896 Croatian defenders died. It's a Corps that disappears every year. So over 2,200 people have left this world in the past tense. Is this mortality also driven by state policy, whether it threatens Do I belittle that anything I ask of you that the Croatian defenders did not deserve it from this Croatian government. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much, Your Honor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47959	Thank you very much. First one notice. The President of the Committee on Budgets, the state budget informs that the 46th session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 18 September following the submission of the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić, 133. Please determine if we have a quorum in the hall, the hall? There is. Thank you very much. Coming through, we finished our current morning at the Croatian Parliament. Please also comply with the standards and with the Rules of Procedure we are going to the first point of the established agenda. The first item of the agenda is: 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please, Vice-President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, the honourable representative, Đurjica Sumrak, submit a report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47961	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 26th session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament of 18 September 2013, the Mandate-Immunity Commission discussed the written request of Representative Bozidar Kalmeta of 5 September 2013 which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that, in accordance with Article 14(1) of the Rules of Procedure, Article 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 5 September 2013 The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament puts its parliamentary mandate on hold with the first day of the autumn session of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission has established that the conditions for the start of the stay of Božidar Kalmeta's parliamentary mandate have been laid down by law. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and Rules of Procedure unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of MPs' term of office on 18 September 2013 began the rest of the parliamentary term of Representative Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47962	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 112 votes for the proposed decision. Continue to honor the Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47963	Similarly, at the 26th session held on 18 September 2013, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement by MP Krešimir Bubal of 3 September 2013 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament about the suspension of the term of office and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office. The Commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Krešimir Bubalo, elected from the HDSSB list, began on 22 December 2011, on the basis of Article 14(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and that on the same day his deputy Zoran Vinkovic began acting as a representative. How Kresimir Bubalo in accordance with Article 14(3) The Law on Elections of MPs issued a written statement to the President of the Parliament on the conduct of the parliamentary office, the commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate had ceased on the eighth day since the submission of the statement and that the same day had ceased the conduct of the representative's duties to Deputy Representative Zoran Vinkovic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the term of office of deputy MPs. On 11 September 2013, the term of office of representative Krešimir Bubal, deputy representative Zoran Vinkovic, ceases on 11 September 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47964	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously with 112 votes in favour. After we've made our decision, I'm asking you to approach the oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the president shall read the text of the oath, and thereafter the representative, when called by name, shall rise up and pronounce the word "I swear". The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47965	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47966	Congratulations. I want you to have success in your work and to contribute to the work of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] We would like to conclude today's work, continue tomorrow at 9.30 with the set agenda points, and the first is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act, first reading, PZ No. 450. Thank you very much. Now we'd move to decision-making on the points of the agenda. Let's get this straight. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I would like the president of the mandate-immunity committee, the honourable representative of Gordan Sobol, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47968	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues The Mandate-Immunity Commission discussed the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Civil Party for the appointment of Deputy Representative Bozidar Kalmeti at the 27th session of September 24th this year. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate had started on 18 September 2013 and that the Croatian Democratic Union and the Croatian Civil Party had appointed Anta Jerolimov as deputy representative and had met the law certain conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative. These mandate-immunity committee shall propose to the Assembly the adoption of a decision to initiate the conduct of the parliamentary duties of the deputy representative. On 24 September 2013. The parliamentary duty begins to be acted by Deputy Representative Ante Jerolimov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47969	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest, I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please make up your mind. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the decision has been reached unanimously with 114 votes in favour. Now we're going to approach the oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the President shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, the representative who has been called up and spoken his oath. The text of the oath reads: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work of the State of the Constitution and of the law and of the respected legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia, MP Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47970	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47971	Congratulations to the representative. I want you to have success in your work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia as it swears and reads. Thank you very much. We are going to the vote, first of all the report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so I call on the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, the respected Gordan Sobol to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47973	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime at the 28th session held on 21 June 2013 on 18 June 2013 for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Zeljko Saba of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Željko Sabo is a representative of the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be initiated or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision authorising the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Željko Saba at the request of the State Attorney's Office of USKOK and USKOK as of 18 October 2013 sent through the State's Attorney's Office for reasonable doubt that he committed the crimes of bribery of the representatives referred to in Article 339(2) of the Criminal Code. The mandate-immunity committee decided to grant authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the representative Željko Saba at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to take action against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties in an uninterrupted manner to which the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is based in jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-18-0.u47974	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 118 votes in favour. Thank you very much.
