ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40440	We have exhausted everything we have been prepared for the vote, and now we could move on to the established agenda to the debate on - Proposed law on crafts, first reading, P.Z. No. 370 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are the provisions of Articles 144 to 150. It's an article of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the representative or the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Representative, respected Gordan Maras, minister of entrepreneurship and crafts. I'm asking the minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40441	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad to be able to brief you on the changes here, not about the changes, but about the new Law on Turning. And seeing you after a while. It's always nice to be back here in the constituencies. So I feel comfortable here. The law of twisting, of course, I don't hope to be back soon, but I still feel good. In the Law on crafts, which includes a large part of the population that deals with the economy in the Republic of Croatia and what is important, it is important that at this point we have 83 thousand craftsmen, around 83 thousand craftsmen who employ more than 105 thousand people, means almost 2,000 people are working in crafts today. And that is why this law is very important so that we can define I would say as appropriate legislation and a legislative framework with as little risk as possible in order for people to work. The current Law on crafts was adopted in 93 and regulated fundamental issues of craftsmanship such as the concept and type of crafts, conditions for doing business in crafts, education and training for performing crafts, organisation, supervision and administrative measures. The law has changed several times and lies there, and there lies motivation in writing a new law because it has changed six times so far. With a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2010 attached to it, since there were many amendments, we decided to write the beginning of the law. The debate lasted a long time, preparing within the government, a team co-ordinated by the drafting of laws between several ministries for 4.5 months. And we also had a public debate that lasted from February 20th to March 20th, where, of course, we consulted with all the interested public and eventually made a proposal behind which the Ministry and the Government of the Republic stood. What marks the turn of the past years as well as the economy as a whole is a crisis, i.e. a reduction in the number of craftsmen. And that's why we paid particular attention to some changes so that people with as little risk would engage in the activity of the crafts. Since as you all know by now the craftsman has been corresponding to the entire property and practically for 50 thousand kunas or for 30,000 kunas you could have lost your house. And there's a lot of merciless cases that we've seen through the media where people forgot to check out the trade, tax debt or contribution debt has risen to several thousand kunas. Interest on interest, year-on-year, and finally, the execution came and people were left without a house. I don't want to give examples of these cases right now, but there were a lot of them, and that motivated us to make certain changes that we would, of course, tell us in harmony and help with other laws dealing with similar topics. I would now move on to the most fundamental amendments to the law itself, or what in the whole law is the most important newspaper. Surely the paper is primarily the responsibility of the craftsman for the obligations created in the performance of the crafts. It is that the law excludes the exercise of real estate necessary for housing and workshop or business space in which the craft carries out its activity and which is its primary source of income. In principle, this formulation covers 99% of craftsmen almost in Croatia. Because when you see, when you see 83,000 craftsmen and 100,000 employees, you probably don't have a craftsman and 5 jobs, or workshops, etc. So the vast majority of Croatian craftsmen in this case will be protected, i.e. in the part where it doesn't happen, I say that because of a small debt someone is unable to continue economic activity or God doesn't let it run out of roof over what's been going on. And therefore, and what a problem that is, it tells us enough that in 2012 we have 4000 784 activities on the real estate of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. And our estimate is that there are over three hundred craftsmen. So, specifically, people were left without a roof over their heads and because of these little debts that they failed to resolve. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made another step to make it easier for people to settle these debts especially when they are tied to debts to the state. So we passed the Bronze Payback Act, which you had a few months ago here in the Parliament. And we've made it possible for all those who've been doing trades for the past 20 years, we've had big debts to make it simpler. It's about dozens, almost 10 billion kunas that can be reprogrammed this way. So we're taking care of these people, but also of the future for those who want to open a craft, who want to engage in business activity, we have to make it possible to do it with a lower risk, because today no one can yet say with complete certainty that if something invoices that it will be paid. Unfortunately, of course, the beginning of this government's term of office was 45 billion kuna, now it's reduced but it's still not at the most satisfying level we want, which is to make sure that someone will pay you for your service or the goods you delivered to him. And this is one newspaper that will certainly enable craftsmen to work more peacefully and safely and safely. Of course, it wouldn't have been if we hadn't made an agreement with the Ministry of Justice and the Implementing Law, which also makes these things possible. As far as other important things are concerned, it is the exercise of the rights of the social security system. What's behind that is a very simple thing to hide, which is that our craftsmen who worked, who closed the craft, had no right to some of the fees that their employees had. And we simply believe that when a man closes a craft he must have the same rights as his employee, also if the company is the only employee and owner he also has at the Employment Office certain rights. Of course, it takes after itself and that you have to pay extra insurance for employment, that is, what goes on gross wages, but you're sure that you'll have one security and what I'm ordering here now, in the future craftsmen when they stay, again I say no to God because of the crafts they'll have the opportunity to achieve during unemployment until they find another job, the rights all the same as the rest of the unemployed who are out of a job. Now it's always good to see how many of these people have been in the past. Unfortunately, the crisis that hit us in 2009-2013 has been reported by over 50,000 crafts, so 50,000 people couldn't achieve that right, 50,000 people were unprotected after they had to close the trade not by their own guilt over the market or by those conditions that were in the crisis in 2009, in '10, '11. They ruled and didn't have those rights that their employees had at the time. It is also estimated in the future that some turns will close and open because it is normal that sometimes some work fails and it is estimated that at an annual level, 8,000 people will be able to use this benefit, or opportunity that could not be used so far. So there's no reason for our craftsmen, as they pay pensions, not to pay this insurance during unemployment, to ultimately exercise the rights of the HZZ that all other employees in the Republic of Croatia have. So in particular, 8,000 people a year will be protected this way. The introduction of a craft transfer institute is also a paper that will happen in the law, which says that when you exercise the right to retire, you do not have to shut down the crafts, but you can transfer it to your near relatives, or to your son, daughter, wife, anyway, husband, meaning anyone, and so far it has not been possible. So far you've had to chemicalize, you've had to have an open turn-off or shut it down and transfer the property to someone else. Here it is very simplely arranged and we think that our people who deserve through the crafts of their pension have the right to transfer that craft, and enjoy the pension they have paid their whole lives by the laws that all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia have. And again very precisely, it's 2500 craftsmen a year who go to peace. And we helped them this way. What is also an amendment to this law is the abolition of a list of activities that can be carried out as domestic work and secondary occupation, and here I very clearly want to say that under the legal provisions of the Republic of Croatia that apply to certain activities, it is the easiest thing to explain it through catering activity because we have the Law on catering activities so that someone does not think that someone can be engaged in both the house and bake cakes or serve coffee and drink, he cannot because the Law on the catering activity very clearly defines what and how you have to have to be a catererer. So we simply wanted to make it possible for up to 10 gross wages a year for someone in the secondary activity to do certain things, these are the simplest jobs and these are jobs that are not required by certain specific laws. For example, making souvenirs, for example, making a balance sheet, means that a person can get a book of exit accounts in the IRS and thus up to 10 gross wages a year, meaning not when it's a real job, a business that has bigger incomes, that it can be done that way. In practice, if someone is employed, has crafts or other business, it is no more cost-effective than having a company or crafts company because it must also pay contributions and its income enters the final tax application. So that's only true, if I can say it simplisticly now, intended for pensioners, the possibility of pensioners who don't have to pay pension insurance because they've already earned their right during their working days and will be slightly less cost than to open up the company. But they don't have to put you on the stand when you open up the company and when you get a job, you have to put your pension on hold here, you won't have to, but you'll be able to work here and you'll be something, something will be worth more to you than through normal economic activity. So this is a measure that is more focused on those who are able to do something else, of course I'm saying it again isn't a catering business, it's not a gas business, it's not a job with anything, you can't pull out ore and oil, so it's not possible to do anything that's not defined by special regulations so that people can finally make something else besides that. Making crafts by a legal person, the first thing I have to say here, we need to be aware that in Croatia by the laws we have in force is a craft way of carrying out economic activity. Although some professions are crafty, although there are tied crafts, i.e. occupations that are specifically defined as craftsmanship, you can also have crafts for marketing services. So you can have commercial activities unless it's an economic activity and unless it's prescribed by some special law that it's not possible to carry out as a craft. And then we had the situation, for example, the simplest thing about catering, we had a situation to say a typical craftsmanship, so we're edifying it in a way that we have 30 thousand in Croatia registered, but 20 thousand as craftsmen and 10 thousand as d.o.o. who were not under the old law at all obliged to have any connection with the first register of crafts or the passing of master exams, means certain qualifications that they arrive in the context of the crafts. So the law said that if the activity is not carried out in an industrial way, if it is carried out in an industrial way it does not have to be in that system. Now no one knew what industrial means, because that definition was not clarified anywhere or existed in any legislation and virtually no one followed it. So we have 1,500 d.o.o. in the register that do their job as a craftsman, and in practice there are tens of thousands. So, we had one lifeless law, and here in terms of further liberalisation of business, the simplicity of business, we decided not to impose an inexhaustible restriction on the D.O.s anyway, which doesn't mean again that it's no competition to anyone because competition is if you open the crafts. So, as a government, we don't look at the situation of whether it's someone's competition, but that people can do the simplest they can, of course, under full responsibility and I'm honest with you. So we're interested in the fact that more people are engaged in economic activity. Is it d.o.o., is it a company, is it a twist to me as a minister is not a priority that in any of these I would say branch takes place economic activity. I'm interested in the fact that the more people try to work, the more they hire people, the easier it is. And that's why we went this way to simplify it more, and I think we did it right, because now we had a law that wasn't practically implemented. And that we will continue to have maximum consumer safety and competitiveness in the market even greater than it was before. Because the alternative is to make a commitment to all companies, to all activities related to crafts, and then have tomorrow demands that 10,000 hosts have to pass master's exams. Do we want to make an additional cost to those people who do this anyway without any problems and give quality service and anything. We're talking about everything else here, but I'm still pointing out. So, the activities that are, I would say dangerous perhaps for performing and human health such as connecting gas are not even possible to do unless you have certificates and approval of for example Plinara in Zagreb. Or when we're talking about auto mechanics. So it's not possible to work legally in the garage without having a contract with the Environmental Protection Fund that you then have to show you that you've been putting off all that junk you're collecting. So that's not how it's possible to work without some control, without some expertise. So I am not afraid at all that consumer protection and the unprofessional provision of services and supplies of goods will come into question, but rather, we will make it easier for people to work simpler. Also that change that caused the debate. It is about the organisation of a chamber system in the Republic of Croatia. So what we have through the previous law is defined that when people open the craft, they automatically become members of the Chamber of crafts and have the obligation to make a chamber contribution. So there isn't, nobody asks you, you don't, but you're an automatic member of the chamber system. And I would say that now the system lies essentially on craftsmen's associations and that's good. They do the highest work. Unfortunately for the research we've been doing, and it's always good to see with the relevant houses, of course, Professor. Bagic did this research, Dragan, to see how many people use craft chamber services, Croatian craft chamber. And it turns out 74% of people don't use craft chamber services. But there is one part of the activity called public authority in part of education where we have also defined by law that, in cooperation with the Chamber of crafts, we also carry out master exams and assistant exams. Otherwise, the Law on Professional Education provides that part of the education of tied crafts goes through the Law on crafts. So it's nothing out of the ordinary and it's nothing that's in coalition with other parts of the law and other laws that cover part of education. Because the Law on Professional Education has been passed by the Ministry of Science, which defined that tied crafts are just defined by the system as to how qualifications are acquired through the Law on crafts. It means that part of these activities exist and that it should simply be used in some way. And there was a basic dilemma, meaning whether to make the chamber system more accessible to craftsmen, whether in any way to level certain standards. Because what's going on? Someone yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Economy said it was de facto monopoly. So the chamber can determine whatever contribution it wants and those who are craftsmen have to pay it. And that's true. But I don't think it's fair and we in the government think it's fair that such a chamber contribution differs three times from one city to another. It means that in one city it costs or costs 40 kunas, and in another city 150, 160, and the craftsman asks him anything, neither does I say any better service or something, and there's no choice. So we wanted to set certain standards that we estimate will help the chamber system be more efficient without ambition to interfere with any internal relations. So we don't determine by this law how much a chamber contribution is, but it's determined that there can't be more than a certain amount. Because now we have terrible oscillations. And of course we take care that it is a parafiscal imposition and that the idea of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to relieve craftsmen. So, according to this proposal, this discharge will be 25 to 30% compared to what the craftsmen have been paying for so far. Let me tell you what a problem this is and what in some way when you talk about craftsmen, craftsmen how they sort of refer to it, I'm telling you that over three hundred million kunas are not charged with a chamber contribution in Croatia. Every year, something below a hundred million is coming in, and then you figure out how much it is. It's a three-year chamber contribution. So, we want to do it that way, I'd say equalize the standards, we want more people involved in the HOK, and I'll also tell you that it's not too much effort, and you've seen that we've predicted here that all craftsmen have the right to get involved in the selection of presidents and the regional chambers and the HOK, and that way we want people to try to tie more to the chamber so that in future periods they have better results than these 74% that never used the crafts chamber services. These are the things we've defined here. Of course, what is particularly important to me today, I have the opportunity to discuss the Law on craftsmanship and the state of craftsmanship, and I believe that some in the debates will touch this situation, but every year the wish is once, given that we have spoken of the parafiscal intent and that it is public money because it is acquired under the law, that once a year the trade in the Croatian Parliament is debated about 200 thousand Croatian citizens. I think it deserves to be discussed, and that's why we predicted, it's just those who do, probably when families are taken into account, it's over half a million of our citizens who live from the crafts, and we want to discuss it once a year. About the state of affairs, so it's kind of my commitment and interest to you as an agent that you make some suggestions to try to make things better. Once a year, HOC should be manifested on what and how this money was spent, which services were provided and, of course, held a debate on the context of this in the Croatian Parliament. These are some things that we estimate will help improve the system. Of course, the alternative is, so it was a very simple alternative, the alternative is to go through Slovenia to volunteer membership and then, of course, since craftsmen can then decide how much they want, how much they don't want, how much they will pay, how much services they will use then it doesn't matter. And then I agree that there shouldn't be any I'd say standards set for certain organisations, but since we've estimated that in this part we should see that one part of these craftsmen's associations are being used for supporting institutions because when we have regional development agencies with companies, we have business centres. These are supporting institutions, in fact, if you would translate them into trade associations companies. And so the alternative is that we go on a voluntary basis and that the state then provides support as it provides support to development agencies and entrepreneurship centres by providing support and associations to craftsmen, and that membership is then on that basis voluntary. At this point, because of these public powers, it also means because of what we estimate to be being used from that system, we think this is an optimal solution. Of course, we leave the debate open until the second reading and, of course, through your discussions and the interested public, these are the only two models I see as possible within the craftsmanship. One side of evidence that craftsmen are participating, that they want to be involved if, since we have predicted that there will be direct elections next time, if 5% of craftsmen come out of these elections, then it is a very simple decision for me to make next time when we change the law what we are going to do. So, then we'll make it a voluntary membership. But if we see people wanting to participate, then we estimate that this story is good. So two possible ways are possible, one is standards, transparency, availability to everyone and equality and less parafiscal burden and another is a voluntary way so whoever wants to activate and join the Chamber of craftsmen, who won't. So these are two ways that only they can be. And finally what I'm trying to say is, here's what I've seen that I've seen two very important things that I've missed, it's about that we've had season shifts and that's especially interesting to you coming from Dalmatia or from Istria, from the sea, so we've had a commitment to our seasonal craftsmen to pay for a whole year of maritime contributions and de facto to work for 3.4 months, now we've set that up for six months. So, if it's a seasonal twist that works less than six months that has no obligation to pay for a whole year than just in that period when it works, and not less than six months because our people are smart, they'd probably work 15 days, and basically who knows how much they'd work but I mean that we've set the standard that we don't have to pay for a whole year. This is good news for those who are in Dalmatia and Istria, and most of all there we have seasonal crafts, that they will not have to pay a full year's contribution but only for the working period, not less than six months. And another thing that is not foreseen in this law, but given that there are no amendments I can immediately announce that I will advocate for it, and that is that the existing law and that which is on your benches defined that the craftsman's family can help the craftsman carry out his activities. It's actually good, but it's actually pretty often useless. So, with help, it would be good for someone to be able to help someone, even when they are not physically present in that area, if it is a member of his family. Because it's done, de facto twist is the most common family business and we often have demands that there's no point in helping a craftsman if he has to be present at the scene. In other words, when you help a craftsman the inspectorate always interprets it in a way that the craftsman is there. But it may happen, for example, that a craftsman must work in his own place and ask a family member to take the Virmanes to his accounting. And means such assistance to such jobs that the family can do, of course, under the obligation that, if it comes to certain professional activities, it must have an adequate qualification. We will propose as a government or as a ministry in the next reading or adoption of the law in the second reading that the craftsman or his immediate family will not now spread to 15 knees because we again know that our people are resourceful. They would have found some kind of race but at a closer family if they could help without restrictions on the performance of the crafts. And that's going to help our craftsmen very much. I estimate that this is one comparative advantage compared to a simple company and to a company at all. Because we've liberalized our business with a simple company. 6,000 companies have already established simple in everything here now the law has changed in about half a year. I think it's a big success, but we want to make a certain comparative advantage if it's business simplicity and trades. It's what I think one of... being this that the craftsman's family can help even when the craftsman isn't present, means helping in the craftsman, not helping the craftsman. Yeah, it's gonna be one change and I think it's gonna be more or less all our craftsmen say hello. Of course, since this is a law that is not only for them, but is very important to us because we want that trend that started in 2009, 10th, and that's what I would say were huge losses. For example, in 2009 to 2011, we lost almost 35,000 turns. It's big numbers, and we want to turn those trends around. What I can say as far as I'm concerned as the Minister of Entrepreneurship is that although last year we closed more crafts than we opened that trend down and drastically, but when I calculate simple companies generally increased the number of people dealing with entrepreneurship. And that's something that this government shows is doing well with all those discharges and, of course, with all the incentives we give through the budget. The craft here is particularly important to us because in the budget we have special funds created for traditional crafts. We want to, someone also said on the Committee on Economy yesterday, we want them to turn that because of the competition and because of the industry and everything that goes forward we cannot survive to help them keep one part of our tradition because this tradition is something that is part of our culture and everything that has happened in Croatia over the centuries. And normally that my role as Minister of craft is particularly important here and I will take special care of it. And here's my timing for almost a second, so I'm gonna end up here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40442	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. A set of 8 pieces has been reported to your presentation, but before that, I would like to give my representatives three notices. First of all, dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest that we work in continuum today without a lunch break. Can you accept that? Thank you very much. I estimate we've already absorbed that. Secondly, the chairman of the Justice Committee asks that the session be held today on 5 June at 11.15 a.m. at the Jelačić Centre Hall to vote on the topics. Thirdly, the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, the respected Valter Boljunčić, schedules a session today also Wednesday at 14:00 in the hall of Stjepan Radić 133 on the 1st floor here in the building of the Croatian Parliament. Now let's get to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40443	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. So here are some improvements that you've brought into the law and relief and security of our craftsmen, and there are those things that you didn't appreciate and that you didn't absolutely look at. In fact, if you had seen what it means to equalise parallel activities with crafts, you would surely have accepted the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and thus define that legal status. However, this proposal provides for the possibility of a physical personal performance of all crafts activities without restrictions, which makes it legal and factually equal to a craftsman without having the status of craftsmen. It's actually inadmissible and it's in collegiate and with other laws, and we don't think this kind of work will contribute to any good. According to this legal solution, the Institute of Domestic Labour and Secondary Interest is nothing but a trade with limited income. The only limited income is those who make it impossible, everything else is allowed as if the craftsman is the one who does some work. The current Law on crafts gives the right to a natural person that, to a lesser extent, and for the precisely established deficiting professions, i.e. crafts activities may, as an additional activity, carry out domestic work or secondary occupations, which have not been uniformed by the crafts. The list that was made certainly defines the fact that it was complementary occupations or home work, and so it was necessary to remain safe. We don't think you've read enough of the comments of the Chamber of crafts you ignored on these nine pages they wrote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40444	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40445	Thank you very much for the replica. I don't ignore anyone. I'm talking to all the craftsmen. I'll tell you, for example, I've held meetings with the Slavonia District Chamber and I've been at a meeting from Virovitica-Podrava County and we've discussed all this. There were no such remarks. I'm talking about the area craft chambers. So you're from Virovitica, so I'm talking about the area comas of Virovitica-Podravina County. So I go among people and talk to them. Moreover, let's say the Istrian County's regional crafts chamber supported me in these changes, there are 8,000 craftsmen. So, look, don't, it's always the watcher's eye. So, look who's writing, what it says and what it says. I told you, I'm interested in making it easier to protect consumers, while people don't have to have extra burdens. And I don't know, Mr. Djakic, do you know what a turn is? The craft is a natural person the same So, no, no, no, no, I just wanted to [[Intruder: Please do not address the representative.]] Yeah, I'm sorry, Mr. President. [[Intruder: Please do not address the representative.]] I just wanted to explain that the twist is basically a physical person. So we now allow for simple activities to be physical, so it wouldn't be any problem to say now that these people who have 20, 30,000 incomes open the crafts. So that would be fine. And to pay the chamber contribution, etc. Then no one would object, then there would be no competition. Ha, there'd be competition then. Or that the pensioners can't do it, but they have to put their pensions on hold to open the trade. Well, we wanted to allow people with, uh, simple low-income jobs and little activity to work. What's the problem? I am firmly behind this, and I don't think there will be any abuse, no particular competition or consumer threat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40446	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40447	Thank you very much. I sincerely hope the minister won't tell me I have no idea. However, Article 36(1) and paragraph 2 are contradictory. And I think it is high time in Croatia to clearly define what property is to carry out crafts activities and thus to equalise craftsmen and legal persons. And Mr. Minister should know and that's very important because you've done a great exposé on the transfer of craft activities, you should know that when you open up the activity that then this part, regardless of what it is in the family house is practically isolated, becomes a business space, has all the connections etc.. And it's very interesting how you legally intend to perform that you allow someone to carry out their activities and not solve the problem legally in the space and machinery on which the activity is carried out. You're operating on other people's machines. What about the rent? A series of tax matters that are clearly defined by tax. And here you have written something in the law as if it were some sort of isolated island and it's not about any laws. So you're opening up a series of possibilities for malfeasance. Because you're saying, in article 36, that a craftsman is responsible for his obligations to complete property. And then after that you say, the execution can't be done in the living room. That's what this law needs to tell. It's important to determine what the property is. So, what is it that serves to perform a craftsmanship and what is something in which a man lives. And that's the key problem and that's what you and craftsmen are proposing. And if you do, you've done a great thing. And don't talk, you said one big lie here. The Croatian state did not execute anyone's housework to collect taxes. It's just that it doesn't stand. And if it stands, then it's your 2002 agreement on the collection of income and unpaid claims on the proposal of the taxpayer himself. But I say [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40448	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40449	I said yes, and in the opening statement that there were certain amendments to the law. Among them is one decision of the Constitutional Court. So you in the past government tried to isolate it like you just said. So to single out one part of the assets to carry out the activity and that's what the Constitutional Court has brought down. So now I can suggest the same thing again, I can suggest the same thing again and get the Constitutional Court's refusal back, and then what have we done? Nothing. I did what I could in accordance with the agreement and with consulting with the Minister of Justice what allowed us to enforce the law and we put it into law. And I think it's insurance for people who can lose everything for small debts. And it's not exactly true, unfortunately, that even because of the tax debt, people didn't lose their house. Just remember the pictures from Zadar and the family's dissection down there, which is due to the debt, here's a colleague telling me, the Vukic family who therefore had a debt to do with the tax administration in Zadar. Here, maybe Mrs. Lovrin knows something more about it. But then people stayed for it, but it won't be possible anymore. It was a debt for contributions, so it was a debt. And I want to tell you we want to avoid such things in the future. And with this law we make it possible and that's good. As far as ownership is concerned, it's only property, you can't stop a workshop from being done there if it's not yours, but if it's yours, if it's your source of income, if someone has 20,000 kunas that they want to do for you on the workshop and you haven't charged a particular invoice from someone you delivered the service to, it's basic protection that a man can continue to do. And we stand behind it. And I think this solution is appropriate. And in the end, we cover over 90% of Croatian craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40450	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Hrg. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Minister, you said that somewhere about a month ago there was a public debate about this law, which is very good. There might have to be more because it's good to discuss the craftsmanship of these 200,000 jobs you listed. One thing is not clear to me now, since craftsmen are organised in the chamber how this happens after the public debate and all of your discussions and the consent of the law happens to the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen to submit 8.5 pages of objections to the proposed law. Something's wrong with me. In this public debate, there could certainly have been much resolved, agreed, put into law on general satisfaction and craftsmen, of course both consumers and all those who need to raise hands for this law. Here's an additional explanation, I ask you, how come you now have so many objections if you received good support and great support from Croatian craftsmen in the public debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40452	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40453	As you said, the public debate is ongoing and everyone who is interested appears. There are also ordinary craftsmen from whom I have said what I have also received suggestions and what the intensity of those ordinary craftsmen who are now watching us, they are rooting for voluntary membership in the chamber. I've received comments from the regional craft chambers, I've also received Croatian craft chambers, but I also have the conclusion, here in writing, I'll show you later, the Istrian County craftsmen, 8,000 craftsmen who support these things. So, Mr. Hrg, I'm sorry, MP Hrg, and I congratulate you on your reelection as mayor, and here I am using this opportunity, you have to understand it's always important, except for what you write and who it is and why it's written. I wrote the law because I am truly convinced that we will protect additional craftsmen, that we will simplify the situation and that we will allow people to work simplerly, and those who do not have such an interest can rebel but do not think that if 74% of craftsmen have never used chamber services that all of them have been consulted. That would be a little contradictory. So this is simply about a different view of a particular thing and I have no ambition at all to be absolutely supportive of everything I propose, but I am convinced that in what I do, I am doing the best I can and that this proposal is best and much better than what has been in force so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40454	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40455	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. Well, here you are, in fact, announcing a respected minister's experiment. You said if in the next election, which will basically be one craftsman-one vote, 5%, 10% of craftsmen if they vote for the President of the Chamber of crafts, then you will know that they should be voluntary membership in the Chamber of crafts. However, you also said earlier in the introduction that 74% of craftsmen do not use the service of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. If 74%, ž craftsmen do not use services like most do not use nor do I think the service of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is clear, you already have indicators that membership in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and I advocate that this law does not speak and for membership in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be voluntary. You were talking about 50 grand of craftsmen closing the crafts. I'm sure they closed it because we have parafiscal motives. One of the parafiscal duties is certainly also membership in the craft chamber. Which is why you impose something, your mouth is full of freedoms both to this government and to all governments full of mouths of freedom, and then you prescribe that something must be mandatory, so you just didn't use it. It's like saying you have to pay the Zagreb-Rijek highway but don't use it. First of all, if a craftsman does not mean membership in something but performs business and the Croatian Chamber of crafts must be composed of those people who want to be members of the Croatian Chamber of crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40456	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40457	Thank you very much. When I analyze what you said on the first one, it might seem so simple, but I said there's something that's very important on the market, which is supporting institutions. When it comes to companies, it's development agencies, when it comes to craftsmen, it's craftsmen's associations, meaning someone who's going to be part of the NGO sector. Sometimes it can also be a commercial trading company in disposition to help those who start because the state can't cover everything because then it would have an administration even bigger than it is now. So we want to use the NGO sector and give them the opportunity to develop. And I told you very well, so if it turns out there's no interest in this guy then it's for us to think about what to do in the new changes, so that's a very exact indicator. But at this point, there are only two ways to go on a voluntary basis, and in this situation the state allows support institutions to function in a way that enables development agencies, etc., to find a certain fund of money for projects that could then be financed through the example of a trade association. So we have to make sure that there's a benefit in these supporting institutions, we have to make sure that there's part of the education system that works through the chamber. In other words, the teaching programme takes place in cooperation with the chamber, i.e. craftsmen and students, where they teach practical lessons, but of course it could also be performed by the High School and the Professional Education Agency. So we can transfer that part of the job to them. This requires another step in reforming the entire system and at this point I have estimated that it is better to go to a certain discharge because this 30% will certainly reduce the burden on craftsmen and try to make them more involved in the chamber. And I'm saying that changing the law now can change in two years, but this is a proposal that I think is optimal right now. Of course, I'm opening up, the debate is still going on, the public debate is over the past month, and this one in the Parliament now, and until the second reading will also take place, and the final proposal will have to be... for what we think is best. If we went on a voluntary basis...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40458	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40459	Here's the last sentence. If we went to volunteer, then we would have to transfer this part of education to the Ministry of Education, i.e. vocational schools and the Professional Education Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40460	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40461	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister spoke of the need for the state to intervene, the legal arrangements for the association of craftsmen in the craft chamber, and one article even by this law ordered what the chamber should do and do, which are its activities and even most of these activities concern the state, not craftsmen. Imagine, the Chamber of crafts has to do a service for the state. One of the last freedoms of human beings that must never be taken away from anyone is freedom of choice, freedom of choice. Freedom of competition implies freedom of choice. Whether or not it's not a government issue, it's not a state issue, it's a question of those who want to team up or not. And please respect that. Why would it be the government's wish to join the craftsmen? Why is it not the government's desire to join stakeholders, to join companies with limited responsibility, to join in. Why regulate and impose something someone wants, and maybe they don't want to. It must only be on a voluntary basis, and how much one will pay or not decide whether he wants to be a member, whether he benefits from this association and how much he will pay the association if he wants to be. And that's not the issue of the state getting involved. Why would the government care about the collection of a membership fee from an interested association? So let him worry about the collection of taxes and all claims the state and the Ministry of Finance require, not the collection of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the collection of the Chamber of Commerce. It should be the work of the craft chamber itself, and this law has not even defined what craft activity is. It is only said to be part of the economic activity. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40462	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honorable Gordan Maras, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40463	Thank you very much. It's good to see you again, Mr. Maric, and congratulations on the delay in the reelection of the Parliament. Legally edit the chamber contribution. So I'd like to tell you one thing. We said we had six changes so far. So, the former governments had six options to change the Law on Trade and the last two changes were 2007. I suppose you know what government had in 2007, and it could have been arranged by then. I understand that you have this attitude and that freedom of association should be released as you wish. But everywhere in the world there is a functioning and informal part, so institutions that help in me would tell economic operators whether craftsmen, whether trade societies, and so would us. So we're not getting involved in any of this. We speak only very simply, that certain standards must exist, that they are worth everyone in all of Croatia, identically, uniquely, that there can be no big difference. We're talking about what the chamber is doing, because by that logic, then it shouldn't even say that there's a crafts chamber in the law. But if you have such a system organized I say since '93. Then it should go all the way to a voluntary base and move these provisions at all, so let the chamber join together on the principle of the association. But we haven't decided on that, we've decided on this model, we've decided on a model of transparency and less cost and greater involvement of craftsmen in the entire system. So to say, I understand what your interest is. I see you've spread a little story and you've spread the story to the Chamber of Commerce It simply worked a system that worked in the 1990s. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Maybe he needs to be changed in part, maybe he needs it all in one piece.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40464	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40465	Thank you, Mr. President. ... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40466	You are not included in the MP, nothing will be recorded on the transcript in the log. You can do it again, we'll give it to you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40467	One more time? Sure, sure. Well, I'm glad to see you, so Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. I am not this, thank you very much, Mr. President, that Mr. Minister feels comfortable in the Croatian Parliament and that he is experiencing us and it is not good when, when colleagues from the other side of Mark Square come to spit on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure etc. But I'm glad he also noticed the importance in assessing the status of craftsmen and craftsmen. 83,000 and 200000 employees, that in these circumstances every job is invaluable and that craftsmanship deserves special protection. But craftsmen don't think that's the way it is in nature. They think that if the law is adopted in this way, that, therefore, it will offend the profession, it will endanger consumers etc. There are numerous examples that can confirm this. And I was stuck in the ear with the example of the legal person involved in the business of the crafts. In this regard, it is prescribed that unlike craftsmen, they do not have to have a professionally trained person. This puts craftsmanship and vocational education directly at risk, while their expertise is impaired. Due to the absence of the obligation to hire a highly trained person, the quality of services provided is at stake and thus consumer protection, which was discussed on several occasions by the minister. But there is another problem, that under these circumstances this vocational school, which we are proud of, which extremely high-quality workers have brought to the labour market, will be unnecessary at the extra time. So I'm warning you, maybe I'm not professional enough for this area, but I do believe it's necessary in this place to warn you about it. Here, on two occasions, I think I've been enough and the minister will understand and he'll be able to give me a good answer. Thank you for your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40468	Thank you, too. But from now on, it's going to be a rule that doesn't involve itself bearing its own consequences. Replication response, Your Honor's Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40469	Well, I have to admit, Mr. Milinkovic said almost identically. So, I agree with you there won't be any corrections to the incorrect allegations because there's no such thing as the Rules of Procedure anymore, is there? And as for everything else, I don't think they're going to degrade and devastate the profession, they're not going to be in an unequal position, and they're not going to endanger consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40470	Thank you, Minister. Next replica and respected representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40471	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers and above all I will remind us that the Croatian Chamber of crafts last year celebrated 160 years. It guarantees some tradition, so all sorts of people have survived in the last 160 years that I don't count. In the past few weeks, we have heard that various figures of various para-tax charges are listed, para-fiscal accusations. However, the 2008 Finance Ministry website is the last register to number 245. How much do I know for the first time in history in 23 years, at least we have the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship, so I'd like to know how real it is, so does your ministry know how much there really is a paratax charge? And why have you caught yourself out of hundreds at the beginning of the crafts chamber? That's the first question. So you had hundreds of others that you could have abolished in this year and a half, cut down on craftsmen, small entrepreneurs. That's where we've been talking about it for the past year. I don't know how many times. And secondly, if you're already trying to reduce the contribution by law, which is a commendable attempt to dissipate people, so to reduce their cost, then they need from the Chamber of Commerce and all those tasks part of it to be transferred to your ministry. So, I'm interested in that case, what are the tasks he's doing today, and what is the Chamber of craftsmen doing for those craftsmen, I suppose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40472	Thank you, too. Replication response, Honored Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40473	Thank you very much. 160 years is a tradition, I am convinced that it will survive because 160 years ago there were neither laws nor mandatory memberships but people joined because they saw the benefits. And that's the answer in essence to your question. When you see the benefit, there's no fear at all. And as for parafiscal charges, the problem was that you told the Ministry of Finance 245, but the fact is that there were many more since 2008, but they weren't all accounted for then. So that's the problem. Unfortunately, not all were counted back then. It's at least a hundred more, and we're going to give it to everyone by 15.06 that it's going to expire in a week, and then the government is going to make a final list and show what are essentially burdens and suggestions of individual ministries which, where and how to reduce it. For example, you certainly followed this, last year by half the contribution to forests and water a huge amount measured in hundreds of millions of kunas. You know that I advocate that when it comes to Croatian forests there is no need to make any contribution from businesses and craftsmen, especially from craftsmen. Otherwise, last year, the Constitutional Court made a decision at the 6th month that craftsmen must pay a contribution to the forest, and then we have a watchmaker in Ilica who pays for the forest as well. These are illogical things and I am convinced that very soon Croatia will disappear them. So companies such as the Croatian Forests must be able to finance everything from their management incomes, I would say national wealth, and so it will be in the future. Unfortunately, this has not been the case until now, and in particular it was not in 2008 when there were 245 but hundreds more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40474	Thank you, Minister. Next replica and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40475	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So Minister Maras, speaking of the Chamber Association of craftsmen, you said something that I firmly believe that as a minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, you were confused, that you didn't think so, and you said about regional development agencies and development centres that they were support and a kind of association of companies, and that's why they join together, and then this Chamber of crafts needs to intervene in it by law, to lay down strict regulations, etc. I hope you're mistaken because regional agencies and regional development centres... The economy and then the craftsmanship that belongs to the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you forgot that companies have their second chamber, which is the Chamber of Commerce, where membership is also mandatory. And that's why it's the real question why you've come to terms with craftsmen and craftsman's chamber that you're so detailedly regulated, that you're trying to reduce parafiscal burdens that are commendable, but I warn that the government should act unitedly and then consider all chamber associations. Because let's not forget we have a Chamber of Agriculture, a Chamber of Commerce, a pharmaceutical, a medical, a series of chambers in which it would be really interesting also to carry out research on how many memberships are used to these services of chambers as you did in the Chamber of Commerce. But of course you won't and you won't be afraid to determine that the association is on a voluntary basis because in this way, here we are reading Article 80 where there are over 20 chamber tasks, half of these tasks are actually tasks that are state affairs and state powers and they are financed from chamber contributions. So state affairs actually pay craftsmen from their chamber contributions. And now that you're reducing and limiting the chamber's contribution it would be interesting to have some estimate of how much it costs to do these jobs that are actually state affairs transferred to the chamber as public authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40476	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40477	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lovrin, I didn't get anything confused, I just wanted to show what they really needed to be chamber associations. Support institutions. So whatever the HGK exists here and there and the HGK should be more active as a supporting institution in my opinion. But since this isn't the HGK Act, I can't answer your question as to why I first opened this story and not about HKU. So this is the law of twisting, and then we're discussing it here, so on the other hand, my ambition is primarily to know what you're saying is how much something costs and what's on the other hand it gets. And that's why we're going in that direction to have this debate here once a year, so you're going to get a very clear report on how much of these activities and how much it's done and how much it's worth, how much it's useful, etc. and then you'll be able to have me say both timely and quality information and therefore I propose this once-a-year report and debate in the Croatian Parliament and I hope you will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40478	Thank you, Minister. That's why we've exhausted the replicas to your opening exposure. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the club of IDS representatives and respected representative Valter Boljunčić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40479	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister of the Ministry, the esteemed fellow MPs and MPs. We at the IDS Club and the IDS Advocacy Club and the Independent Representatives of Furia Radina consider the proposal of a new law to be a step forward in solving the problem that is affected by... craftsmanship. However, we believe it is necessary to highlight several proposals concerning the new bill that we believe will still contribute to greater protection. Namely, the basic intensity of our thinking is heading towards making business easier for craftsmen, not to stop them especially in the difficult economic situation we have been in for the fifth year. The same way that it takes to make it easier for them to operate more easily must also enable them to develop uninterruptedly. It is also important to protect them in case of getting into business and financial problems that we are faced with every day that more and more unfortunately to say must put the key in lock-up given the difficult economic situation. We believe that in this sense they should be provided with that protection within which the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia also have. Although the new proposal of the Real Estate Act, in which they live, is excluded from any possible enforcement due to the demand for cash demand, is certainly a step forward in relation to the previous situation where the craftsman corresponded to his entire assets, it may also be necessary in this single protection to enable a certain protection of the monetary part of the income as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have. In the opposite craftsmen, in the event of a blockade, they would lose their means of life, the same would be left without the possibility of further work which definitely puts them in an unfavourable position in relation to the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So we think that even part of the monetary incomes would have to be protected even in the event of business enforcement. The second part is related to the master's exam that is definitely needed, but we believe that it could become a limiting factor in this development and we think that the master's exam should primarily be present where a craftsman takes scientists to work so where he deals with and education of teaching, and not in any case. We believe that this part should remain linked exclusively to the teaching. Similar things to the appointment of an expert manager if it comes to the fact that the craft has a separate drive to expand business in the bill says that it would already have to have an expert manager in advance. On the other hand, as the owner guarantees it, we believe that craftsmen responsible for their business should be able to decide independently who they will hire as a manager. There has been a lot of talk today about doing the domestic work of the secondary profession, and we think that in principle it is acceptable because most of the craftsmen themselves have also started their own business path through such an additional activity. However, further regulation will certainly reduce the grey economy of working on black. But perhaps, apart from one complete liberalisation, we should see and regulate domestic work and additional occupations so that they are not unfair competition to craftsmen. Therefore, the granting of licences is, however, limited in some way to the registration of competent authorities, to limit the way in which certain interests are taken into account, in which area there are already such occupations in the local community. Because it does not come to the fact that we have, perhaps, the number of craftsmen in a particular business that there is more than enough to open up additional occupations from that same area. And that will certainly lead to unfair competition and black work. Therefore, the need for a particular area should be taken into account depending on the number of registered crafts for a particular occupation. One part that is not essentially in the domain of this law which is definitely the most important for craftsmen, the most interesting and the possibility that we have heard some announcements that VAT will be charged in the future when issuing rather than charging an account like now, which would definitely be a blow, and we believe that in some other laws VAT should remain after billing and not when issuing an account. It was these few last replicas you had that spoke about the financing of chambers, whether or not to be joined. In this way the financing of chambers is somewhat reduced and that money is divided into more levels. But the situation is next that all chambers, especially regional ones, are not in the same position because a few of them, for example, in Pula some time ago, were built and therefore a space for craftsmen and some funds were invested, capital investments and revenue cuts at the moment would therefore significantly jeopardise the possibility of returning what was done with a certain calculation on the previous contribution So here you should see this contribution which, as you yourself said, is not the same now everywhere, but also the fact that the service that all chambers provide is not the same, to take into account the level of services that the chamber provides somewhere, which the investments were, to allow the sustainability of these chambers to end. There was also a speech on the election of presidents, predicting the direct election of presidents, so it looks like one step in democratic decision-making, but the question is, first of all, what will be the response, whether it will turn into just one more election as we have now. In fact, there is also a question about the amount of money that a single candidate will be able to invest or not in his choice. These, however, should remain as if the presidents were elected at the level of congregations elected in individual chambers. However, as for crafts and competition and survival, definitely without connection to the overall economic situation and with larger companies, craftsmen will unfortunately not be able to bear the burden of this crisis alone. So, in any case, you should see the mass of parafiscal loads that are now being placed on them, to the extent that they can bear it, to what extent they do not. And there's definitely a big space to impose on you. And make business easier. Because at least with us in Istria, especially in Pula, so we have big industries like the shipyard, but it can only exist with significant support from small industry, crafts that do a whole series of jobs that, say, shipbuilding as such has left them. I'm saying, in the event of major intrusion, it's definitely not gonna be possible anymore. So, once again, we think that this, between the first and the second reading, is a step forward. But these few may look small but we find it relatively important to contribute to this bill being acceptable and that craftsmen still come to greater security, first of all, through the protection of property like you said the apartment or property they live in, and so on and through the works and monetary incomes because their own apartment as such is not enough for their lives, and I also say through regulation of the other facts that they can and will work uninterruptedly. Here, thank you again and I hope you will appreciate these remarks until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40480	Respect. We're moving on to replicas. First respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've been having trouble getting involved, so let's see if it works, and here's what I've come up with. But I certainly appreciate your thinking, my colleague Boluncic is in terms of professional qualifications and education. I, too, spoke in my earlier replica, about vocational schools and their meanings in that sense. And in any case, I hold that the entity is registered to carry out its activities has a minimum qualification to carry out its activities. This also applies to those legal persons that I was saying earlier that there is for, therefore, to carry out these activities. But in a simplistic way, I think it's not normal for me to, for example. The butcher can open a hair salon and, for example, does not have to hire a qualified person. So I'm wondering if someone would let someone fix his brakes who didn't, on the car, who wasn't trained to do it professionally. And in this regard, I believe that there is certainly a need to pay attention to education, professional training, in the extreme case that it will also protect consumers, which is also the aim of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40482	The replica matches Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40483	Well, they definitely need to be trained. But the master's exam, as such, as an additional qualification would be for those who otherwise teach for others. But of course someone can only do some work if they have a profession for such a job. No one's talking about how someone can open a craft they're not professional for. First of all, most crafts and demands that you can only open them if you have conditions that are in that sense. Of course, before you might have said, vocational schools still have to be, it's not a substitute for vocational schools. They teach something other than the turn itself. Because you never know whether after high school a student will stay in the trade or go further where he needs a lot. But I'm sure it's a bit of a work-and-work thing, then. In addition, in communities you know very quickly about a craftsman who works well or who does not work well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40484	The second line is respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is my colleague Valter, since I come from a city that has a rich craft tradition and 150 years of organized craftsmanship in the City of Đakov area and therefore in conversation with craftsmen is one of the main obstacles and this decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in 2010, I believe that this law should define the property which the craftsman answers because this is a key issue, especially when opening new crafts. So when a young man or family decides to open a craft, then it must practically correspond to the entire family property, all that he has acquired, inherited, while on the other hand we have mayors, ministers who do not correspond practically to anything for bad moves, nor directors of public enterprises, institutions, companies and private property, while craftsmen have to answer. I think that, first of all, the law should be definitely clear and define what property the craftsman is responding to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40486	Third replica, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40487	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I didn't answer for the replica, so I'm going to say a little something through you in some way. I think you're just a typical example of how much my memory serves me I think you're still part of this coalition that's government, I'm not sure, but I think you are, and you're a typical example of how this government is government, so I don't know what it wants. With regard to the crafts chamber, where is Plan 21, 21, the ministry, so 1 ministry had to write in Plan 21 what the government's position towards the crafts chamber would be, whether it is voluntary or not. And now the minister says and you say, you need to reduce the parafiscal burdens, and we would leave it as a mandatory membership, cut it down a bit so that these are not satisfied, and these could be the third one satisfied. You don't know what you want, so you didn't even know when you were bringing Plan 21 because it wasn't there, and now you're rolling. So if we want to look for a government that cuts every day with a razor, which has clear attitudes every day, which says this membership is mandatory in the state of the Chamber of Commerce, in the Chamber of crafts, we don't need it anymore. They're not gonna say vermin, it's rhetoric of some old time. But I'm telling you, for me today, these intruders are unnecessary to both economics and craftsmen, and we don't need a crafts chamber or a Chamber of Commerce. These are just officials who abuse those places for political profiling and spending state money. Mr. Minister and Mr. Parliamentary Representative, this needs to be abolished and so on rationalise the business of the state, and so should rule, so to behave. And we're not going to see if they're going to participate in a congregation, so it's going to be a sign to us if we should cancel it, and you're saying we should re-elected the delegate president of the assembly. Just like the workers went on vacation through the union, through their representatives. It's a more delegating system for you, a delegating system that's dying out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40488	Thank you very much. My colleague Marasović, thank you very much. Time is up. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40489	Well, we're a delegation system here, and I kind of represent the people who chose us. So I don't know how it works in Split, and I think that the situation is different, which is why I said that as far as these funds are concerned, we should leave them to the local community. I think the situation where certain groups join together is not to have a monopoly, it's very important because they're stronger together. If a chamber doesn't work well, then it's probably a thing for people who run that chamber and that's where they should be changed. I mean, we can't go to one situation where everyone's left to themselves because they're able to participate together whether they're in major procedures or at fairs or so. So I'm saying I'm not quite clear on the meaning of this. Maybe I'm saying in every local community they probably have different experiences about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40490	In the name of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40491	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I will say this, that this law was simply an necessity, mainly because of the fact that only from the beginning of the crisis on here have we lost about 50,000 trades, that these people simply corresponded to their assets and in that part I dare say that this law is good, that this is significant progress in relation to existing legislation or existing solutions but clearly, this law is one process and it will never be ideal as such, I suppose it is clear to everyone. But what's the most important? So that's exactly what I'm talking about, that craftsmen are even with companies, it doesn't matter, to society of limited responsibility, d.d. etc. Unfortunately, it hasn't been done entirely this time, to the end, but what has been done is significant progress, so the craftsman doesn't match all of his assets. Today we have about 4700 deals over the property of craftsmen, and Mr. Maras the current minister mentions a figure of about 400 if I do not cheat on those who have lost their property in executive proceedings. I mean houses, I mean real estate, I mean buildings where they were born, etc., etc. And so that's the key to this law. It should also be fair and admit that some other shifts have been made in a year and a half when it comes to craftsmanship, especially when you have in mind that increase in VAT payments from 80,000 to 230 thousand kuna. However, do you understand where this craftsmanship is today? It divides fate above all I dare say land as a whole. I even dare say that today is harder for one craftsman or one small employer than for a worker who works with that craftsman or that small employer. And it is clear that the worker must be paid and there is no dilemma. He must be paid contributions to pension, health care, salaries not to be late, salaries must not be questionable. But in one country the overall indifference of the permanent decline of the gross social product, the inability to find a job this little remaining economy all agree with me should be held as a little water on the palm of the palm, and then it means another key measure in my court of this law that if the craft, the craftsman closes the crafts and since the start of the crisis it has done almost 50,000, then he must also use certain privileges under quotes primarily because of unemployment when he is already obliged to pay for these contributions. I keep pointing out, like everyone in this assembly, the problem of unemployment, but there's an even bigger problem than this, and that's job losses, and above all in the real sector. It doesn't matter if it's about tourism, it doesn't matter if it's about industry and craftsmanship, to agriculture. Well, only in Istria has 8,000 jobs been lost in the real sector in the last five years. What does that look like when it comes to craftsmanship? In one Pula, it's been closed since the start of the crisis for about 400 revolutions. In Istria, so it's closed somewhere around 2,000 turns, I'll say first of all because of the crisis. If I'm saying we lost in the real sector, 8,000 jobs, it's like we lost four Oilers. The direct damage to jobs is about 2 billion kuna, indirect if we keep in mind wages, contributions, work activities another two billion kunas. The situation is even worse all over Croatia. Only in Istria since the start of the crisis, parallel to that in the public sector, nearly 1,000 people have been employed. How many of them are employed elsewhere in Croatia I don't know, but I also assume about as many but more. This law has other good sides, such as the transfer of trades due to the entry into retirement, etc. etc. And all of these are some brave solutions that could have been predicted three, four years ago, so the situation in craftsmanship would have been better. When we talk about these elections in the Chamber of crafts, yes or no, the fact is that craftsmen have reserves, but I don't see any problems in such a norm. Right, I agree with the representatives of the Liberal Club when they pointed out that around 75% of craftsmen do not use craftsmen's services, so it is expected that they will not appear in these elections. But it is clear that these elections should be held in some way in my court. What may be necessary is the fact that the craftsmen of the County of Istria supported this legislative proposal. It seems to me that today they and the craftsmen of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County will find Minister Maras, but they mention a few more details, and then this is how I will literally read it mention that with Article 2 of the opinion that the master exam becomes a limiting factor in the development of craftsmanship and the launch of new crafts. As a result, a growing number of people are opting for companies. We therefore believe that the current draft law should not impose an obligation to pass a master's examination for companies, but also for trades, but that it remains an exclusive condition for teaching scientists to join. In addition to Article 23, they have another observation that, for the same reasons, they do not agree with the need to appoint an expert manager for both crafts and companies, by opening up separate plants, business is expanding, and it is a problem to find a person who meets specific conditions. As we craftsmen are responsible for the business of crafts, we must be independent in deciding who we will hire as manager. They then state that Article 36 states: "We are aware that the ban on the responsibility of craftsmen is insignificant in relation to initial announcements, but still represents a positive shift from the present state." In addition, we reiterate our proposal, which is not contained in the text of the draft law or in the remarks of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, which is the initiative to introduce the law on craftsmanship, a pardon protected monetary receipt of craftsmen. The proposal is based on the enforcement of protected property, but not the basic monetary income of craftsmen. craftsmen who do not have the right to pay, i.e. all taxpayers of income tax in the event of a blockade are literally left with no means to live. Therefore, the proposal should be complemented by the introduction of a protected reception of craftsmen, such as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think that in that direction maybe you should, I think this is an honest suggestion, a useful suggestion and that a legislator should go in that direction on the second reading. In addition to Article 50, 51, that is to say, we accept domestic work and secondary occupation as in the Proposal for a Law on crafts, many craftsmen have started their business path through additional activity so as to believe that such a provision can help recruit new craftsmen and strengthen craftsmen, by enabling registered domestic work to be done out of secondary occupation. We expect a reduction in the work on black that has received alarming proportions. In addition to Article 82(2) relating to the single basis of financing, we are of the opinion that such a provision can be accepted if other payment services are allowed to be provided as additional revenue to associations and chambers having obligations with the basis of construction, purchase or adaptation of space. Why do I point that out, apostrophe? Because we have a case that the largest maybe chamber fee is this parafiscal anyway as we will call it a chamber contribution determined in one Porec 150 and something kuna, but it should also be kept in mind that craftsmen have engaged in the construction of a great one I would say under the quotes of "the temple of crafts" both in that city and in Pula and elsewhere and now it should be financed entirely. In Article 88, we believe that the direct choice of the president of the HOC will not significantly affect the work of the chamber and I think that is something that is certainly good and should continue with the proposed simple solutions. The fact is that the craftsmanship has always covered the whole family because of the law allowed to assist family members. So far, there has been a difference of interpretation, which is what it means. In the bill of law, it is positive that an extended circle of persons who can help craftsmen to spouses, children, son-in-law, bride, etc., etc. I personally here for the end really think that this bill of crafts is something that needs to be supported. I said in the introduction that it was a process. We can never fully regulate all relationships, clearly assume in which direction it will simply go. It is necessary to clearly assist craftsmen, the economy and other measures, mainly after Croatia's entry into the EU. You should try to prefer domestic products. Projectors should order when they are already designing individual buildings, buildings, etc. that domestic products are built into them. The market is opening up to us, the exporters will now enter this VAT system, we will lose to CEFTA, but individuals are announcing migration, for example, from the Croatian part of their production. Europe is also in crisis, export-importing is becoming more and more aware of what it is. Fortunately, industrial production may grow in the second half. In the first three months, it grew by 1.1%), by 1.3%, construction works increased, by 3.3% more employees in March were either in February, but we must also be fair and admit that 4% of retail sales fell in the first three months, that almost 8% fell in the first three months, and that there is expected to be a decline in the GDP in this year perhaps from 1% as predicted by the EU. All in all, we hope that in this second half of the year here will be one good tourist season, how good we will see, and that on the waves may be the same and craftsmanship mainly in those Dalmatian, Istrian, coastal areas. All in all, I think that this is one good basis for another reading and that this relationship between the ministry on the one hand and the chambers of crafts is something that will ultimately bring about an even better legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40492	The first replica of this exhibition is respected Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40493	Dear colleague Cain, if I understand you well, and you certainly do not understand the issue of property, exactly the property that the craftsman brings into his craft is his entire family property. And even this law does not define as it did not last, does not define exactly that protection of the craftsman himself who, if he connects or does certain jobs, and we had such examples especially in the construction industry where large companies go bankrupt they are shareholders and only corresponds to the property of the company craftsman who was co-operant on certain businesses practically runs out of anything. It also runs out of trade, but it also runs out of family home, apartment or whatever it had to introduce in accordance with the existing law but also a proposal for this law as property in its crafts. So, first of all, this law is good to go in two readings that there is no European code so that we have to bring it by emergency procedure, and I think that all of us here are interested in exactly protection and craftsmen, but also in the future for a few months, a couple of years want to do and open a job, or craftsman. So, first of all, we advocate to define the property that enters the craft, and in any case, it's not the family house of craftsmen or craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40494	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40495	This is as we all know and rightly conclude our first reading. I also said at the introduction in my discussion that the law was simply a process. I also want to believe that there will be some qualitative changes that Mr. Vinkovic is talking about in that part. And I agree that today is precisely because of the way these crafts are defined, precisely because of that responsibility of craftsmen to the entire estate craftsmen and in a more difficult position than the workers themselves who work with them. I said before, the worker must be paid, the worker must be paid contributions, we have nothing to talk about but the fact that the craftsman responds to his entire assets may put him in a harder position than the worker himself. I am convinced that Minister Maras, the competent ministry, that parliamentary clubs, MPs, will not accept this very suggestion, let's say, Mr. Vinkovic, did Mr. Schucker, in a similar way before he also urged that part to amend that article on the 31st of the 36th Law on crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40496	The opportunity to express the replica has now been respected by John Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40497	Well, fellow Caine, it's nice to listen to one of your different controversies after 13, 14 years. What, I'm not talking about this part that we're together in one way or another. So it's about the transmission of the crafts. What is crucial and perhaps the most controversial thing in this law is that it is not clearly defined what this craft contains, whether or not to carry the crafts or crafts. Is if you move the craft then that craft has some kind of property and that property has its tax status and you do, if you don't define it by this law as the property of a craft shop and when an inheritance is inherited, then virtually complete property is inherited. Why? Since depreciation has been calculated during the exercise of activity on that property and thus the tax base has been reduced. And that property after the end of the activity is when it is transferred to someone else it has its tax status... chooses the tax factor in all previous years. And here we act as if we've fallen with no and perhaps in this law there are three or four controversial things and hear me hear that the minister doesn't want to discuss them. He doesn't want to discuss it one more quality way together. We make a better law. And I'm constantly surprised that we're always talking about how to protect someone from being kidnapped by a house, and nobody here is talking about swimming the house, but we also need to talk about protecting those who are believers in a craftsman's house. As someone whose craftsman has remained in debt of some kind, he can't charge them, so we don't protect him, and at the same time we've passed the law here to write someone off 5 or 6 billion interest because he hasn't paid them in some previous years. So what is crucial and what was controversial in the Constitutional Court decision, regardless of what your organisational form is whether you are a company or you are a craft, you must have absolutely identical terms, nothing else. Therefore, the trade must have its own property because it is tax-treated. And everything we do will be the opposite of the law, and we can talk here whatever we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40498	And this replica corresponds to Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40499	So it turns out that in some ways, the craftsmanship is being transmitted, and maybe that's where we agree. And I agree you need to transfer the entire property. But at this point, I'm going to point out once again, I think I said that in the discussion itself, and I'm not running away from the fact that the believer should be protected in every way possible, but we have 5,000 otters over the craftsmen, as many as there are 80,000 of them. And somewhere at this point, the 500-nik of their families literally ran out of property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40500	The third and last replica and Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40501	Dear colleague Caine, at first you confused some things. You said that a liberal representative spoke about 74% of craftsmen who do not use HGK services. Liberals and Labourists are your two opposing ideological sides, so just for future reference. You mentioned the election. So I don't think the Croatian Parliament or the State should interfere with how the HGK will choose its representative, and then the Chamber of Commerce. We will now determine in which way they will choose and allegedly we are a very free state, a liberal state, and now we will assign one man, one vote or one craftsman one vote. And when the state prescribes our elections, then it says no, we won't choose that way. We will choose that the party president decides who will be sitting in the Parliament, open lists are not mentioned. But you would determine for the craftsmen how they would choose their president. I don't think that law should touch the way they choose. So you consider craftsmen incapable of self-indulging in the way they choose their own president over the laws. And what Mr. Schucker used to say before, and you just want to like the craftsmen and protect them from being preyed on by the houses, but you don't want to protect those who are potentially believers whose craftsmen owe money or some job they didn't do. So don't talk about justice, don't talk, you're talking part of a law now, and with that law you want people to like those 198 thousand people to say we're doing this in your interest, we're going to do everything but we're going to determine how you should behave. I think it's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40502	Now we'll hear what Damir Cain will say in response to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40503	Why would the state interfere in selecting the president of the Chamber of crafts? She should just say that, you just have to spend the choice. And whether it's this or who's going to vote, whether someone's coming or not, and I guess that's the autonomous right of anyone who's a member of that, and the legislator's going to prescribe that elections have to happen. I think that's one fair solution, unlike these open lists, I'm for something else that's far closer to that direct democracy, that we choose MPs directly in election units. I don't think there's a fairer suggestion. Every single one of us, in our district, I don't know how many, make it a hundred and forty thousand. Why not? And be assured that I had no idea that I was trying to please anyone about this law. Love it. But I wanted to apostrophe the fact that just from Istria the craftsmen praise the proposed solutions. And let's say the minister's relationship to the craftsman's chamber itself. And the whole series of solutions is simply something I'm not going to say is a revolution in craftsmanship but a good step in evolution that will help further develop craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40504	Now let's listen to SDP's views and colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We all agree that the fundamental law governing status and other issues is important for the operation of economic operators. As we have heard in the debates so far, there have been as many as 6 amendments to this proposal, with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which abolished Article 20(1) of the existing Law on crafts. So, after the multiple amendments to this Law and the assessment of constitutionality, it is good that the new law has been approached, it is good that this proposal has been on online consultation and it is good that in the first reading it is in order to finally come before us the final proposal for this important regulation after a broad and comprehensive debate. How important this regulation also indicates that in just a month and a public consultation, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and craft received over 200 proposals and opinions from the interested public. The questions that address this proposal, which we really consider extremely important, are the regulation of the responsibility of craftsmen for the performance of crafts, the exercise of rights and social security systems, the transfer of craftsmen's life to family members, the abolition of the list of activities that can be carried out as domestic work and secondary occupation and the regulation of conditions for the performance of the same equal to the craftsmen, the standards for professional organisation of craftsmen. We consider it extremely important to regulate the responsibility of craftsmen for the obligations incurred in carrying out the crafts. In fact, it is the obligation of the State to provide all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market. This requires the equalisation of entrepreneurs in their rights as well as in their obligations. The tradesmen are economic operators, business operators and market operators regardless of the fact that they are the first natural persons and others have legal personality and that they do not carry out their activities under the same rules. The method of governing the liability of craftsmen is contained in Article 20(1) of the applicable Law on craftsmen, which has been abolished by the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, from the point of view of the guarantees and equality of all before the law and from the point of view of guarantees and equality, the legal position of entrepreneurs on the market which the State is obliged to provide. and from the point of view of Article 14, Article 49(2). The Constitution. In this respect, of course, the question of justification for the different legal arrangements of liability for the obligations of all economic operators which, in principle, should be in the same position as in accordance with Article 14. Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The principle of property unity and the principle of liability for all assets fall within the important principles of domestic legal order. Therefore, the solution to this proposal that will no longer allow a craftsman to carry out the necessary space for living, him and his family as well as the business space in which he conducts the craftsmanship is certainly good and removes the possibility that due to relatively small amounts of debt the houses and threatens the existence of craftsmen and his family. The possibility of opening this proposal is the transfer of craftsmanship for a craftsman who retires to a mate or relative in a legal line, certainly a good solution to the current long-term and complicated means of transfer. Furthermore, the solution to this proposal, which allows pensioners to be active if they wish to be active, shall ensure that all permitted economic activities are carried out in terms of domestic activity and secondary occupations on equal terms and conditions without paying contributions, chamber contributions and the like, and continue to receive a pension and a good solution and to ensure additional income, as well as to reduce the grey economy. We also consider it necessary to introduce a single rate of chamber contribution because this is certainly justified by the reasons for greater transparency in the use and monitoring of funds. Today's sums of the chamber contribution range from 60 to 160 kuna, the seasonal crafts are about 6200 and they pay for the current Chamber Contribution Act all year round. Therefore, the solution by which the chamber contribution will be paid only during the period of the seasonal rotation but not less than 6 months is a good solution. The SDP Club will support this proposal by leaving, of course, room for objections and proposals highlighted both on the working bodies of the Assembly and on those to be presented in the debate at this session and between the first and second readings of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40506	A respected colleague, Maric, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40507	Thank you very much. Well, it's undeniable that there's a need for a new law. But the need for a new law is not a reason for bad law. And there can't be a reason for bad law. That is why it is good to go to first reading as a colleague said and to crystallize all proposals that are good for craftsmanship. But it will not solve the problem of the Constitutional Court's decision with such a solution. Because the Constitutional Court's decision refers to the need for equality between the trader of the individual and the craftsman, and with this solution again this difference exists and will again show the need for the Constitutional Court to act. It is therefore necessary to make a decision to avoid discussing the constitutional court on the equality of the status of the craftsman and the trader of the individual, and it will only be avoided in a way that determines which property is needed to carry out the craftsmanship and to carry out the activity of the trader of the individual, that the property is registered, that it is known and that it is guaranteed by that property because there is no logic to guarantee the property that is not in the function of the crafts activity. As there is no logic to guarantee the entire property if, for example, someone has an apartment at sea, and crafts activity works in the garage in Zagreb, that the apartment at sea is taken as a guarantee. Therefore, it is necessary to establish the property of all those carrying out the activity, and it is used for this activity because they use as fellow Shuker said and amortisation on that property. So everything in office of business should also be a guarantee for this job, to bring into equal status both a believer and a debtor possible, but also a trader individual and a craftsman. This way, the craftsman will continue to be exempt from the right to go to an apartment or to a business space, which the trader will not. The trader continues to guarantee this because the Commercial Society Act regulates that the trader individual guarantees the entire property and will again say that it is not an equal position of the trader of the individual and the craftsman. That's why I'm asking for attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40508	The replica matches respected colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40509	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Maric, I am pleased to agree that a new law needs to be passed. I do not agree with your assessment that it is a bad law when a bill is in the first reading and a comprehensive debate we cannot exactly put qualifications that something is bad because, as I said at the very end of my debate, I believe that all the comments and results in this debate, and also those that were, and this part that you were now talking about on the Committee on Legislatives, will be innate by one quality, final proposal when we will then be able to assess whether any law is bad or good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40510	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40511	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, first of all, I think it's great that today we all worry and debate here in the direction that it is obviously necessary to help the position of Croatian craftsmen. However, the fact is very simple, which is that the biggest problem of Croatian craftsmen, as well as entrepreneurs today, is the economic downturn of the past 5 years, with the exception of 2011, so the accelerated decline of the Croatian economy, the fall in purchasing power. In the first quarter of 2013, the Croatian economy again fell 1.5% despite current government's announcements that we will have economic growth. The team is more concerned about the economic downturn in 2012 was 1.3% in the first quarter, so the trend is really very bad. Exports, one of their colleagues already mentioned, exports dropped 8.2%. I'll say only two industries within that drop in exports, the processing industry 7.5%, the food industry drop in the first quarter of this year 21%. The resulting number of industrial employees decreased by 5.6%. Real trade traffic in the first quarter fell 4.6%, the number of unemployed in April this year is unfortunately 32000 higher than last year, 47000 more unemployed compared to 2011. Real net salary in the first quarter of this year is 3.4% lower than in the last first quarter. All of this, Ministers of the current government, they say here's the recovery coming. I don't know where they draw that false optimism, and the prime minister of Croatia says he won't change direction. Well, that's how we're getting to the new Law of Rotation today. I think we all expected before this Law on crafts let's say that the Minister of crafts and entrepreneurship proposes, say, a law that would reduce the number of parafiscal duties for craftsmen. We would likely expect some legal solutions to remove numerous bureaucratic obstacles to craftsmen and entrepreneurs. I hope you've made up your mind when it comes to VAT for craftsmen. First of all, you were in favor of the craftsmen paying VAT immediately, I think one of the key reasons why someone would want to be a craftsman in a situation like this is that VAT can be paid at a fee. In this assembly, we have been saying for a year that not only for craftsmen but also for small entrepreneurs should be introduced to pay VAT at charge because they are the weakest and most vulnerable part of the Croatian economy and should be preserved. There we lie in the far line of opening new jobs, above all in this medium and small sector. But what we should say, in any case, is what we would expect when we talk about the Law of Turning, which is because it has been announced for a long time, so we're talking about 6 months, maybe longer preparation, we would expect today to come before all of us a bill of law sanded and consistent with, above all, the roof association 160-year-old, as I have already said, the Chamber of craftsmen. But here's a miracle, and we all got on the bench 9 pages of densely written by the Croatian Chamber of crafts, disagreements, which times and better proposals than they are in the law. I won't be long on the very articles of the law, but several of them, you've all mentioned them, but a few are really very important, so I'm going to quote them here. I will also quote some of the legal solutions, i.e. articles in the law that are now proposed by the Croatian Chamber of crafts. So let's say Article 8, craftsmen I think rightly demand that they be equalized with all other employees, but also with all other employees and in the rest of the private sector and in the public sector, and this suggests a simple formulation: by working in the craftsmanship, the craftsman is exercising all the rights in relation to the employment relationship, if that right does not come true on another basis. Can anyone explain why such a simple proposal would not be incorporated into a law proposed by the Resolute Ministry? So let's say article 36 of which the Resort Ministry, I think it's worth it trying in some way to protect craftsmen, or their property, inherited property, acquired property, therefore grandfather, property in which their children live, in case their trades fail. However, Article 36 first sentence states: "For the obligations that arise in the performance of crafts, the craftsman corresponds to the whole of his property." If someone can explain to me how this is an introduction to the solution to the problem, then I really think that we need to change the way we write the laws in Croatia. So let's move on. The resolution ministry, as we have heard here today, will not only determine how craftsmen should be organised, but how they should be elected and how they should be elected. I think that in a 160-year-old organization that survived the 2nd World War, even communism really doesn't have to be determined how they will organize themselves. I don't think that's really necessary. But at the same time, the IRS will be in theirs, so it's not written in this law, but I would expect someone who proposes something like this to come into the foundations of a crafts organisation in Croatia, but the IRS will charge a trade contribution. I don't think it really makes any sense or logic. Furthermore, we would have expected, yesterday we had a really long one and I think it was a meaningful debate, of course depending on the outcome of the resolution ministry, the debate on the Committee on Economy, and we discussed this law. But what we haven't discussed, which is what I think is much more necessary and much more urgent, and that is how to help craftsmen and small entrepreneurs survive after five years of crisis and preserve their jobs. I remind you once again, all of us here are much easier to keep jobs that exist and are simpler and cheaper and cheaper than opening new jobs, and we haven't discussed it. I'd expect, of course, that we're also discussing these parafiscal intrusions, so let's say look, let's really go separate, and by the urgent procedures of passing laws, how that and what parafiscal intrusion can be done urgently, first of all, by those small ones. So, entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and small craftsmen cancel. That's not what we discussed. So it all sort of came down to the argument between the Minister of Resor and the President of the Croatian Chamber of crafts where we actually heard that the minister thinks that craftsmen should be organized, that they should live from day to day and that they should literally breathe. So I'm asking all of us here now, so is it really necessary for the Croatian government, the current government, to deal with destruction, to say by introducing order absolutely into everything that is traditional in this country? In this case we're talking about 160 years old craft chamber and that it prescribes how craftsmen will organize themselves. I think it really doesn't make sense given that first of all, I hope that the function of this government achieves economic growth and progress for all of us, as well as for craftsmen. So, Minister, the message to you is easy to destroy, but it is difficult to build Croatian institutions. I think the craft chamber is one of those institutions. So, résumé. Minister Maras decided to help the craftsmen, but he decided to help them not in the way they wanted, but how he thought they needed it. I think it's truly wrong. If I want to help someone, then I ask him first of all how he thinks. If I'm not sure what someone I'm talking to is thinking, then let's do a 21st century survey. Unfortunately, there are only 83,000. In a year, a literally poll could be conducted unfortunately with only 83,000 Croatian craftsmen and know exactly what they really think and what they really expect from their own state. There, however, is neither the first nor the last time, unfortunately, that this government from one position of force, or repression, performs, so we see and talk continuously about the tax repression that has brought the result. We also know what it is – very bad for the economy and for all of us and for the purchasing power of Croatian citizens, repression in health, repression in education, repression against entrepreneurs and trade unions. Even lately, we've been seeing repression against our own coalition partners, so now I don't know what's next of all the repression. I suppose the repression against the citizens gathered, the family people gathered in the citizens' initiative "In the Name of the Family". People have collected over 700,000 signatures, but the government says no, so that doesn't oblige us, so what's the referendum? Here, let's go back to the Law of Labour, so the Law of crafts, excuse me. [[The Incursion President: The Law on crafts.]] It's final. Because of the poor and ambiguous qualifications and because of the entanglement of the very foundations of the organization of Croatian craftsmen, i.e. the craftsman’s chamber, and because of the way it happened, the Croatian Democratic Community will not support this and this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40512	We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the Honorable Damir Mathelan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Milosevic mentioned at least five times the longevity of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce for 160 years. So the longevity of an association and the Priory doesn't mean its success. In my view, therefore, the success of this association must first and foremost be measured in this time, and the measure in this time is that almost 80% of craftsmen did not use the services of the Chamber of craftsmen at all, and these are services, which are tools, which are methods that the Chamber of craftsmen offer except for the New Year's Eve. I therefore advocate what some of your representatives like Mr. Maric have advocated, which is that membership in the Chamber of crafts is voluntary and that craftsmen simply, in their own interest, enter into that chamber and perhaps, in that way, that institution itself will be more motivated to help craftsmen rather than to repay them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40514	Well, look, first of all I was saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40515	Comrade Milosevic, you did not answer while the replica lasted. Second replica, esteemed Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40516	Thank you very much. Col. Milosevic, you have said that in this law it is proposed that craftsmen have the same rights as all employees after the end of the trade. And it would be wonderful and wonderful if this law were to go and a law that would define that craftsmen should pay a contribution to employment as well as everyone else because, as far as craftsmen know, they have no salary, craftsmen have the difference between income and expenditure, that's their income. And based on the Income Tax Act, they are taxed. What will be the basis of the employment contribution? Will she be the basis selected by the pension and health craft? It can be minimal, and it can be bigger if he decides so and what will be the basis? Second, on what basis will a craftsman exercise the right to compensation in the first months? So, a series, a series of open questions. There are a number of things here that will be done but no changes to the other laws have been followed. And that's why this law is controversial. And that the minister wants what he's been saying all along he doesn't have a lot of controversial things in this law, that's three, four things. And if you took this debate from the opposition benches, if you took the debate of the craftsman and finally what he was talking about very quickly, you could make a mix that would satisfy both sides. Because we can't say on the one hand that we want to help entrepreneurs, that we want to relieve them. Look, with the employment contribution, we're introducing a new imposition. Therefore, some rights on the stock market cannot be realised unless they pay something. And let's not really stare in front of things, let's call things a real name. And no one here wants to counter you, Mr. Minister, or anything else, but we simply want to pass a law that will respond to time, space and new conditions and nothing else. And that's why you can't just stand in some positions where you haven't been standing at the strongest time of the agreed economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40517	Here are the positions he must not stand in, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40518	So thank you. Well, first of all, speaking of 160 years of tradition, I was talking about that there are people and experience in that organization, so it's unquestionable that we should talk to them seriously and respect their arguments. On top of that, I mentioned in my colleague's reply from earlier, I didn't make it in time to report the replica, so just look at it. Tell me, can I say what I think I should say right now? [[Intruding Stazić: Fellow Milosevic, take a look at the Rules of Procedure. You cannot respond to a replica you did not report on time.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40519	You can say whatever you want in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Since you have responded to Mr. Shucker's reply, you can respond to his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40520	Well, I answer to Mr. Shucker, and what I'm about to answer is probably still my right to decide, right? So in response to Mr. Shucker, I'm telling you, there are a whole series of tasks that are being carried out today's HOK. Which is probably something to pay for. There is no dilemma at all that there is a need to improve the position of craftsmen, but not in this way. So, not in a way that does not respect the attitudes of the Chamber of crafts, I mentioned in the final line 83 thousand craftsmen, so there could be a survey in 12 months. If it's not possible in the 21st century to do it in six months, then I don't know as much as possible. So it was very clear that the views of craftsmen could be made in order to pass a quality law which would protect the craftsmen on one side, so that their assets that were not in function would not repeat what my colleague Shucker had just said about all the givings and parafiscal burdens I had already spoken of before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40521	The Republic will now be presented by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40522	Dear fellow Milosevic, above all, the important line you said was that the most important way to help, the most important answer to the question of how to help craftsmen survive, is that. Since 2009 to this day, 50,000 crafts have been lifted. You should experience the fate of having another 50,000 crafts closed and remaining 30 thousand craftsmen, now the question is if it's possible, someone will say it's not possible because it's been a big period of 4 years they've closed 50 thousand turns which is both due and your government especially. It's possible, the chest started rolling hard. Therefore, it is possible to close another 50,000 turns and that these 180, or 115, thousand people employed are cut in half to be less than 50,000 employees. What was the government supposed to do? Well, the government, I agree with you, should have removed all of those excessive accusations parafiscal. So who's going to charge you with a state register if all the craftsmen close their turns, if everyone goes to the labour market? Then who will make you your forest contributions, your water contributions, who will pay you? Then there's no more money. Then we'll be able to declare bankruptcy. We simply won't be able to function as a state anymore. And instead of agreeing to the minister's work before the law went into the parliamentary procedure, it was supposed to say exactly what it would be in 15.06. how many craftsmen have in mind in the first place? Do they have 250, 500 duties and can they be lifted? Because if we're not gonna end it, we're gonna shut down the craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40523	This replica corresponds to the respected Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40524	I agree with my colleague Vuksic, with the need to extend this matter to you or our debate and to the entrepreneurs. In fact, in a few days we are literally entering the EU, our medium-sized entrepreneurs are on the market for micro-entrepreneurs in some countries. When you compare income sizes and even family businesses. In Germany you have family companies that earn billions of euros because of the size of their market, I don't know traditions etc., etc. One where I can't agree with you, which is our government, because it shows figures and facts, in 2011 stopped the recession. The second and third quarters of 2011, we had economic growth 0.6% and 0.8%, decline in unemployment, growth in investment and growth in purchasing power and consumption. That's what the numbers show. Which could not be said for the past year and a half of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40525	The last line is the esteemed Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40526	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Milosevic, I was amazed by your ignorance that polls on the subject have been conducted among craftsmen, at least according to my knowledge, may be related to other projects related to EU entry, etc. But craftsmen are asked what they think of the Chamber of crafts. In my practice, perhaps modest in this area in my experience, I have not met any craftsmen who are satisfied with the chamber. And how did the chamber react to that survey? They started panicking to send messages to craftsmen not to respond to the survey, it's malicious. I have some of these messages here and in my phone because they don't want any direct communication with the ministry, they want to be exclusive intermediaries, and I think craftsmen have to have direct communication with the ministry and it's good that such an initiative went to ask them what they think about the chamber. In many countries and I personally believe that this is the best model, craftsmen are not mandatory, they are voluntary and then they have to make every effort to give the craftsman what service they should be for, not as Mr. Mateo said they were just doing Christmas and New Year's parties. We may be exaggerating here, but we really need to get together and see what the best model is to help craftsmanship, and I think that one reform may not be the most radical but certainly one minimum reform of the Chamber of crafts is really necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40527	Let's hear the reply to the replica and Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40528	Well, I've realized in these years that you've decided to change the world, but it's not your best time, you know, this country. So when I was talking about self-organizing craftsmen, I said that we don't determine from the outside how in the congregations, in other institutions, craftsmen will organize themselves. And as for the polls you're conducting, I think the best show is the previous Europarliamentary elections and credibility of these polls and local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40529	The Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Gordan Maras now called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40530	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's very short, since there's still a lot of clubs to remember what these first few clubs said and to comment on. As far as the consultation itself is concerned, I regret that you do not realize that in Croatia there is a single Croatian craft chamber that has 20 regional craft chambers, that there are 117 associations and that there are 83 thousand craftsmen. I did it in the field chambers probably with them a dozen direct conversations and there was no objection of this type or if someone objected then we came to that conversation and I explained what it was about. So it's not true that you don't talk. I don't know if you've been listening to a fellow Caine who's been reading you a memo from the Istrian County Department of the Eight thousand craftsmen where they speak the opposite of this memo that you have. But that's the way it is. You have one who thinks like this, the other who thinks like that, and the government and the ministry are here to pass the bill and the Croatian Parliament what they think is best. So it's not true that we haven't consulted and I ask you that if that's why you won't support the law that here I am now explaining to you that it's not so that you change your attitude if that's the reason. As for the survey, so normally I should consult both companies and craftsmen through the survey not only within my ministry, but we have a programme that goes within the European Commission, and it's called improving administrative efficiency at national level and today it's just been a press conference in one hotel in Zagreb since tomorrow it's on the Ministry's website, you can see about all the obstacles that our entrepreneurs and craftsmen have to think about, and you can see for the most time one poll on a thousand is a sample of what's relevant and did Professor Dr. Dragan Bagic can see what they think of the chamber system. And in that survey you can see the data that is related to these few things we talked about earlier. It means how much it's contacted, whether it's used services, if it's voluntary, etc. So we're consulting polls, and it's very important to us, and that's why we're working on certain bases for laws. We do laws not for ourselves, but for craftsmen and entrepreneurs, so don't think it's all done like this over your finger. It goes to very specific backgrounds and when people say to me over 70% that it didn't use favors then I know that there's a problem and that it needs to be changed in some way. Also, as far as the 160-year tradition is concerned, I hope you don't think that someone who was then a member of the association that he was still, I don't think that correlation really understood what it meant. Whether these experiences in the last 160 years should be applied literally and whether you are in some way suggesting that someone who has a very long tradition can never work better or worse. I don't think that has anything to do with it. Of course, tradition is important and of course we need to maintain it and of course there was a tradition before there was craftsmanship than it had become the Chamber of craftsmen and that in some way the association of craftsmen would exist in the future that is ahead of us. As to whether certain provisions should be put in place or not, I don't know if you are aware that a Chamber of crafts is established in the Law of Turns. Today in Croatia there is a Croatian crafts chamber which was established under the Law on Turning from '93. So where should we write something about the Chamber of crafts than in the law of crafts, if it is established under that law. So I don't understand why these things even happen when they don't interfere with internal relations whether it's the rule for everyone to vote for interference in internal relations. So much more interferes with internal relations when you influence or try to influence fewer people than 83,000, so that's the greatest possible democracy. Who wants to get involved in relationships? Who can predict other than those craftsmen and those who present themselves and who advocate their status who will win these elections? When a congregation of 70 and when you see a congregation of very many people have this 20-year tradition, that's tradition. That tradition, in my opinion, is sometimes far more worrying than this one of 160. In about 20 years, it became a professional business. To be the president of the chamber. So don't and don't again, please. Look who's writing and what it says, and then you'll see the real reasons. And I'm communicating, and I'm communicating with everyone, and I'm still gonna be communicating on Thursday, not today, but tomorrow I'm going to the Primorje-Gorski County, which will also very likely support these changes talking to more than 10,000 craftsmen alike. I'm going to go to northern Croatia on Friday, I'm going to go to all the regional chambers, I've gathered 10 of them by now. So it doesn't matter about anything. As for this and mediation and unemployment rights. A task force has already been established and is also working with the Ministry of Labour, where we will define which one will be the basis. Because normally certain laws, this is about the Employment Intervention Act defining both obligations and rights. And I can tell you here that craftsmen will be entitled to the stock exchange just as they will have the right, or the obligation to pay. It will be, it will be no need to be afraid, this is a formulation that covers the entire social system I would say protection in Croatia and in the Employment Mediation Act we will define it and craftsmen will have that right on the market. So I don't see what they'd be worried about. As far as individuals' traders are concerned, this is something a colleague of Maric mentioned as well by his colleague Shuker. It is that the trader individual is now, although defined by the Company Act, corresponding to the entire assets as a craftsman, there is no difference. By the way, there are a total of them in Croatia you know how many? Eight. So in all of Croatia you have eight traders of individuals and those according to the Law on Commercial Society correspond according to the Law on crafts also to the entire property. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to talk about the economy here because he introduced his fellow Milosevic thesis, the fact is that the decline is slowing down, he's smaller than the last quarter of 2012 and is 0.6% smaller than what many analysts in Croatia have estimated, and I believe that we will have a positive economic growth in one quarter very soon. I'm glad that my colleagues from the IDS support it and that they recognize that a step forward as far as VAT is concerned, my attitude is known to everyone, I'm a position that craftsmen and all entrepreneurs up to 3 million kunas should pay by, charged and not by an account issued. That's my attitude. Of course, sometimes in the government, with the arguments others have, you have to come up with a common solution and we have come up. So the craftsmen will pay by old VAT and extended deadline by 2015 and in the future we will see. And I will continue to argue that all entrepreneurs, up to 3 million kuna, are paying VAT per billed invoice, not per issue. And one more thing, I think we will probably have that solution in the future in Croatia. At this point I say other ministers have other arguments and we have decided to extend the status which is now until 2015. As for the butcher and the hairdresser, there's no fellow Milinkovic. I said that yesterday on the board, and I'm waiting for the first call from whoever went to the hairdresser and asked if you had a master's exam. Here it is, it's, if there's someone in the hall who came to the hairdresser and asked if you had a master's exam then I'll admit that it is, those interests that I would say more about education than how people work. It is known what interests are that are important for health and for consumers, these are defined by specific laws and have technical conditions that they must have, all possible professions that they are. So I'm heading towards simplifying things. And as for my colleagues, Vinkovic, to inform him here, I will be the sponsor of the anniversary of the Association of craftsmen and the organization of craftsmen in Djakov but not of the 150th but of the 200th year. So you see that I've been communicating and I've been to your place, and with that association, we've had one conversation. So I'm constantly in communication with craftsmen because I'm not doing this for myself but for people. And that's my intensity, and that's why I hope that you HDZ colleagues, after these arguments, will change their attitude and support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40531	Thank you. Now, Minister Maras is about to be brought down by a whole little tsunami of replicas. We'll hear them in the log-in order. First Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40532	So now, after this exposé of yours, Minister Maras is clear to me why you couldn't agree at all, agree with craftsmen, or the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, because you obviously didn't hear or understand what I was saying on behalf of the Club. So first of all, I was very clear. I even cited articles why we will not support this bill. So a whole series of bad and ambiguous qualifications, i.e. vague solutions in articles. You have even one article, we saw it yesterday, someone apostropheed it on the board where the sentence isn't finished. As for the economic downturn, however, you cannot compare the decline in the last quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 but you must compare the quarter to the quarter. So in that sense 1.3% said the fall was in the first quarter of 2012. Unfortunately, in the first quarter of 2013, 1.5%. That's what the numbers and statistics say. And as far as praise is concerned, I'm glad you accepted, so that's what we've been talking about here in HDZ for a year, which is that for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, so I think more than 3 million kunas should be the limit for that payment of VAT. However, Croatian craftsmen and small entrepreneurs do not have time to welcome in 2015. He won't be expecting jobs, he won't be able to survive under this kind of pressure until 2015 so you can tell them, well, he doesn't understand. So, whatever the arguments, your colleagues, they're unacceptable, because they're indirectly destroying jobs, or vice versa. What we've been talking about for a year would save some jobs. And apparently, the system is destroying them. I told you today in the number of 50,000 and more unemployed this year in April this year, in April 2011. So what's to wait for, in 2015, for you to start taking something seriously? And in the end, you didn't answer me, I'm sorry, you didn't answer me if in a year and a half of your ministry you lifted a parafiscal charge?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40533	Minister Gordan Maras responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40534	We have lifted a lot of burdens, and we have reduced significant burdens such as contributions to Croatian forests, Croatian waters, monumental rent, etc. And I answered that when I first called to think that some of those duties after this year wouldn't even exist, and that's hundreds of millions of kunas, that's what they're about, so what they're... And when you look at a little of these public enterprises like Croatian Waters and Croatian Forests, they achieve even better results than during... Government. It's amazing, they have less income, and they get better results. So here is to conclude a lot of things from the way we manage to what we saw with the former directors of the Croatian Forests and their regrets and confessions. But good. It's important that things change and change in the future. As for the objection, I just told you, one of the objections was this for employment, I answered, so it doesn't stand what you said you wouldn't have the right. You have read, well, I can accept that the Croatian Chamber of crafts has identical attitudes to HDZ. This may be so, but when you have already read the arguments of the Croatian Chamber of crafts and accepted them as your own, it is something that it suggests in itself, it means that these are attitudes in terms of HDZ and Croatian crafts chamber. But if I can explain to you that it's not like that, that they'll have the right of people to do this on the stock market, they will. He'll have the right to the stock exchange when I explain to you that I don't interfere because they choose, when I explain to you that I've been communicating with 10 district chambers, with... I've been sitting on 10 meetings because the deal or what will satisfy you is that I accept what a professional organization suggests. Well then, there is no need for Parliament or government or anything, let the Croatian Chamber of crafts propose laws,... propose laws from the economy etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40535	Minister, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40536	Excuse me, here's just one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40537	So there's going to be an opportunity, you have eight replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40538	I've communicated and I'm going to communicate and I'm asking you to change your attitude because these arguments are not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40539	The second line is respected Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you've mentioned polls here and your contacts and conversations with district chambers crafty by county, and I'm going to say here that we should respect the institutions, that it's very important. So in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, there are no people sitting in the administrative bodies who came from somewhere on the side. Mr. Ranogajek has been a craftsman his whole life and if he signs the argument that the Chamber of crafts disagrees with a series of articles, with all due respect to you as Minister I must say that I trust Mr. Ranogajec more, not because I do not trust you but because he comes from the real sector, comes from practice, man lives that life. He certainly knows it better than one of us who hasn't tried to do it, he knows what the problems of craftsmen are and not in any of the administrative bodies of the craftsmen's association, the regional chambers, nor does the HOK sit anyone else but the people who are craftsmen, they're them. And if a survey was already done then it was probably necessary to agree on questions from the survey, to agree them with the Chamber of crafts, along with the ministry, and then do a survey of craftsmen and get the right relevant data that would give us the right way and the right direction. This is how I get the impression that it's about one manipulation, one system decommissioning, one intentional attempt to break something that certainly needs to be improved, but it's not so bad. I came from a town where 501 years ago, the first craftsman's check was founded, 501 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40541	Thank you. Minister Maras responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40542	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrg, I'm telling you the same thing, so institutions exist different, there are associations of craftsmen,... they're all institutions, they're institutions that work more successfully, someone less successful, but in the end, when you talk to everyone, you have to make a decision. You can't accept the argument you think he's guilty of. And please don't think and underestimate, it's not a question of my ministry now, I think 10 or 12 ministries were involved in making the law, the inspectorate was involved, and now let me know if you trust Mr. Ranogajec, who you mentioned more that this would encourage the work of a black or state inspectorate. ... Well, that's then, so you don't trust Croatian Drava institutions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It doesn't even have anything to do with politics, so it's people who are experts who work there, it's their job. They're also on the ground every day, and if you tell me you don't trust the state inspectorate okay, then we can't talk at this level. So that's where people worked, that's where they deal with it. I didn't sit down now and I wrote the law. So people who also live in the field and in the crafts and in everything participated in the creation of this law. So if I consult the state institutions that deal with the team then I guess I have information to assess whether something is something or not, and not one part of it I would say is just a story, or a Croatian crafts chamber which by the way I tell you is neither the whole in the same way being set up. I told you a few chambers that were different. And as far as the polls are concerned, I don't do the polls, I don't know how to do the survey, I'm not ashamed to admit it because I didn't graduate from the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb and I don't do it. My survey is being conducted by a professional agency and by Professor Dr. Dragan Bagic, who is the strongest I would say authority in the area in Croatia. And that's why I'm asking myself, I have nothing to ask questions... They did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40543	I thank the ministers. Next replica and respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40544	Thank you very much. Minister, don't impute any political forces with anyone. So we're talking about the law here, and we're not talking about the text and remarks of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. But it's just that you're constantly warning us in this debate to watch who wrote what and where some of the comments came from, so let's say you like what the Istra District Chamber wrote and you keep quoting it here. And it seems to me that the more you speak and the more you answer, the more you come to the surface, in fact, one personal animosity or disagreement with the president of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen. And now by reading this paper in the proposed law, I see that they remain as the bodies of the Chamber of Assembly, which is elected by the delegate way, so with no legal provisions from where, as far as it would be even representation than to leave it to the Statute of the Chamber and let the Assembly decide. The composition, the decision-making method, the delirious body of the Chamber, all of this is left to the Assembly and their Statute. But interestingly enough, you've fallen for the president and the president's choice, and you're looking for direct elections for him. Therefore, there will be a Assembly that will be elected by delegation means by representatives, and I note that the Assembly has far more important powers than the president. It is the president who will implement the Parliament's decisions. So, it seems to me that there's something wrong with that relationship, I'd say. And exactly what you're objecting to or I wouldn't say you're objecting to, try to impute that it's happening to you right now. I note that 70 members of the Assembly will continue to be elected on a delegate basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40545	Thank you. Let's listen to the answer of Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40546	I don't meddle in the internal affairs of the HOK, neither is it my intention, nor will I ever do it so that there's no objection that I would do anything about any internal relationship in the HOK. I work exclusively to get as many craftsmen involved in the system as possible, and this is why I said it, because I saw my colleague Milosevic read these objections sent by the HOK. That's it, I apologize for accidentally seeing it through the corner of my eye, so I connected it up and agreed to object, literally so explained by the HOK, to be read on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives. But what else can I finish? So, if the same words, identical objections to the HDZ Club and objections to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, that is, the president of hers mentioned by Mr Ranogajec. So that's one logical conclusion, I'm nothing else. I'm sorry if that's not the case, but then you have an incredible coincidence in your attitudes. That's really an interesting solution, then. And as for this, the presidents of the regional craft chambers will also be elected by law directly. If you've read the statutes and, well probably the statutes you're not because it's not here, but the board of directors are just the presidents of the district chambers of crafts. So we're going to have a little bit wider I'd say a democratic story than we've had before. Because what was going on? Here's an example. In Zagreb you have a regional Chamber of crafts which has 20 thousand, slightly less than 20 thousand members. All associations in the Assembly who elect the president whether they have 100 members or 2000 or 3000 or 5000 members as a host have the same right to vote. So we want to give a little more members to come to terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40547	Replication also brings up respected counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40548	Dear Minister Maras, it seems to me that you, your government, will pass the law that the parties should elect their presidents and their bodies party. I think this is even inappropriate the way you prescribe it. However, I disagree with my colleagues, I agree with you in this Croatian Chamber of crafts is not all craftsmen. The Croatian Chamber of crafts is what, you know, often existed, according to the fathers of Croatia who used to sign equality between themselves and Croatia, including parties. We're Croatia they were talking about. The Croatian Chamber of crafts is not all craftsmen and should not make a fetish out of it. ... It doesn't mean 160 years of good work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why you justify that you're not in a fight with the Ranogian or you are or you're not. Well, it doesn't matter. Why would you get along with him? I agree with him in a lot of things, with some people, and I don't have to justify myself at all, you don't have to justify yourself for your own opinion. The craftsmanship is far stronger, longer than the Croatian Chamber of crafts. I guess we know that. If we are working from the Croatian Chamber of crafts to an institution that is not to be touched, then we have done nothing again. But you're controversial in what you want to prescribe that you can't prescribe. And secondly, we must not forget that 50,000 crafts are closed with a Croatian crafts chamber that did not work properly, which did not stand up against such laws as they allowed, which did not contribute to Croatian craftsmen doing better, to impose on them. So, and what Mr. Milosevic said in our time was not In 2009, they shut down, and you only admit one HDZ period. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]] Well, HDZ must have existed before you came.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40549	Minister Maras responds to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40550	Thank you very much. Mr Vuksic, of course, this does not stand as a matter of choice because I have no intention, nor will the Croatian government ever prescribe that Croatian parties will choose their presidents, because neither law will write, for example, nor will we prescribe that all members of Croatian Labourers should choose the president of the Croatian Labourers. Normally, it has nothing to do with it, but there is also no law saying that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be members of Croatian Labourists. Is there a law like that? There isn't. Thank God he's gone. So it won't even be prescribed to choose from that side. I mean, it's totally incomparable what you wanted to do now. So we have one I'd say monopoly that by opening something you become a member of an association, or chamber. And we need to set certain standards. What's more democratic? If all must participate and pay a contribution that all can participate not indirectly but directly in the election for the president. What's the problem? Well, that's so normal, why? I don't see what the problem is for people, so it's much more democratic than working this way I just explained that in Zagreb you have an association that has the same number of votes in the assembly, and 50 times less than the other. So on the other hand, there's no incursion in autonomy, but I'd say a little shift in the way of involving craftsmen in the whole system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40551	Now we'll hear the replica of the Đura Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40552	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, Mr. Minister found in his address that he needed to see who was writing, what it was written and why it was written. For the sake of the Croatian public who sees and sees these craftsmen for whom this topic may be interesting, although nothing in life will help them, on the contrary, I must say and show that the HOK therefore wrote to all representatives of the Croatian Parliament and that it was signed by the president of the HOK. Therefore, the president of the HOC, who is legitimately, legally and legally elected to the bodies of the HOC under the existing law. And it's his job and he has to do it. And what he wrote, I'll just tell you and read the first sentence. The Croatian Chamber of crafts strongly opposes the part of the proposed solutions in some articles of the Law on crafts since the existence of craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia is at stake, by devasting the craftsmen's profession, by jeopardising consumer protection and by creating unfair competition for craftsmen. Is it not our job as Croatian representatives, MPs in the Croatian Parliament to find this important, especially important and worrying? The president of the HOK, who, by the way, praised you at the beginning of your term of office, expected much because you formed a new ministry, which does its job and warns what will happen with certain parts of this law. And why wouldn't HDZ have the right to say it publicly and with what right do you accuse it of being some kind of HDZ satellite in the Chamber of Commerce? He, as legitimate president, has democratically elected to sign the HOK's stance. We don't have a single other attitude, not a single part of the HOK you're referring to. That's why I'm performing like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40553	Answer, Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40554	Okay, but I guess you've got your own attitude about it, too. Well, you don't have to have anyone's attitude in order to have their own attitude, right? So you're analyzing what's proposed, etc. I've only found that it matches exactly what the HOK suggested that you read as your suggestions and remarks. Nothing else, so what's the issue? Well, it's not a calling, it's just a finding. If you didn't have different attitudes all right. I'm trying to explain to you that it's not exactly like that. I'll tell you one more thing, now I want to know about the choices themselves. Here in this survey, today you can see it on my ministry's web pages, 58% of craftsmen support a direct choice not to think that the others don't have a 27% attitude, not to support 9%. So 58% is for direct selection, 9% is against it. Now tell me, how am I supposed to reason with the kind of craftsman they're listening to right now and here? Also on VAT payments when I asked them if and how it would affect your cash flow, or your business 44% means, I'm sorry, 48% would dramatically worsen your cash flow, 19% would worsen significantly, 11% would worsen. So, a total of 68% of craftsmen would find it difficult to introduce it now, and that's why I'm saying it shouldn't be and it won't be until 2015, and then we'll find some solution that will satisfy all the common market. So, I'm consulting with craftsmen, and this was a clear conclusion. I don't know why you felt called.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40555	Now we'll hear the replica of the esteemed Ivan Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I've been trying to read what you wrote all along. And you wrote that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. If I am not mistaken, the Croatian Employment Service is a beneficiary of the state budget and if you claim that part of the craftsman who will unfortunately stop his activity will be able to achieve some kind of right at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, then some means must be provided. It simply requires additional resources to implement this law. Whether she'll be within the existing, that's irrelevant. But you just have to make some kind of assessment and say that this is gonna cost so much and so much. And if you had done what you had to do because you, in parallel with this law, had to make a law that regulates, which is to intervene in employment, to pay for employment contributions because what will happen? For example, this law comes into force with one date and the law which obliges craftsmen to pay their employment contributions and that they have the right to do so 15 days later. What will happen to craftsmen, for example, who remain in that vacuum, unfortunately shut down the twists and they will not have the right to do so under the existing law, and you have given them the right under this law. I'm just telling you that unfortunately you're over-theorizing, you're too involved in theory and you're not in real life. Also when you talk about an individual trader, so no one says the happy solution is that there is said that the trader individual guarantees his entire assets, but let's clearly define. If we put all rights in the same basket, then let's clearly define to carry out certain activities, we need certain resources and let's separate it from private assets like it was separated from companies and then there will be no confusion. But you don't want to talk about it because you don't understand what the problem is. And you have a craftsman...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40557	Time's up, I'm sorry. The answer is Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40558	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker that I deal with... And I'm talking with my life, and so, unfortunately, 50,000 people couldn't exercise those rights, and they will. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] To deal with practical life, we say that there will be no 300 performances per year on the property of craftsmen for doing the trades that have been so far. To deal with practical life, I'm saying that 2,500 crafts will be able to be passed on to family members. To deal with practical life here's something from your domain, that I suggested personally and that I raised the threshold for entering the VAT system from 80 to 230 thousand kuna, which is 25 thousand, no negotiation, 25 grand. So why didn't you do it yourself a year earlier? 25 thousand Croatian craftsmen came out of the VAT system. I'm in real life and bang and you're in theory. These are all living people and they exist and we did all this just for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40559	Replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40560	Thank you very much. Minister Maras spoke of the fact that so far, according to the current law, the craftsman has guaranteed his entire assets and that only 8 individual traders are in Croatia. Under the current law, the craftsman does not guarantee all of his assets but Article 20(1). "all the assets required to carry out the crafts" and there that article was abolished by the Constitutional Court because that category of assets entered is a vague and undefined category. Compared to an individual trader, at least there were only 8 who literally wrote in the Company Act Article 9 to guarantee their entire assets. With this bill and Article 36, you do not solve this problem that he pointed to and directed to the Constitutional Court. And it's not natural or life-like or logical that craftsmen guarantee their entire assets, but only property that is in the function of business and crafts. And level the status of an individual trader to amend Article 9. The company law that even an individual trader guarantees only property that is in function of the activity. This article shall be amended in a manner that guarantees only registered assets in the function of its activity. This will put you in a level playing field and remove any ambiguities and new provisions of the Constitutional Court and will help the craftsmen most. Why should only craftsmen guarantee something that does not serve them in their activities? This helps them, and they are not helped by membership that is prescribed to give to their Chamber of Commerce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40561	The reply to the replica of Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40562	Thank you very much. That no matter what 8 of them are on them are subject to the provisions of the Law of Turning, so that they too can be excluded from these tasks. Otherwise I said the introduction of these performances will include more than 90% of Croatian craftsmen, so they won't have to fear for the property they live in, so they don't have 6 workshops, they usually have a workshop in 99% of cases. So I think we've adequately protected and granted them better status. And as for the problem of which you spoke and the Constitutional Court objected and, of course, always in the debate when you pass the law, the people who deal with other ministries of these things are objecting that it is not possible to share the property, the objections are also that a natural person as an entrepreneur and a company as an entrepreneur in the same status and that a company regardless of what 20 thousand kunas of the underlying capital also corresponds to the entire property, so it corresponds to his own assets and property. It doesn't matter that he owns another 5 houses, but the company's businessman corresponds to the entire assets. And that's why, yes, yes, the company is responding to its assets as an entrepreneur. The property of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40563	I'm asking you not to bring the debate down by throwing it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40564	Property, so I'm not talking about the owner right now, I'm talking about the property of the company. And on the other hand, the natural person the entrepreneur is also responding but we found a solution that they can't do this and I think it's a big step forward and protecting people who lost their homes by 20, 30 thousand kuna yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40565	The last line is respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40566	The distinguished ministers of the lapsus lingua were 1813st-year-old student masters asked the archduke of Austria-Hamburg France II permission to set up a company of craftsmen in Đakov. Before Francis was Leopold, inherited by Ferdinand and but enough about history. One of the patrons of the 200-year-old is the mayor of Djakova this time elected for the 4th time. I believe that, above all, the basic question of this law and, normally, that both the Chamber of Commerce and these objections passed on, so that their observations were passed on to almost all MPs, and I believe that these remarks were received by all MPs not only HDZ. But I think the basic problem is precisely because of the number of craft employees who are now 166 thousand 279, that's the information from March, so that's 12.41% of total employees in the Republic of Croatia. It is this issue of ownership, or the question of what the craftsman brings as property in the crafts. It certainly needs to be redefined and legally justified. So I wouldn't say put off the power of this Constitutional Court decision but simply help all craftsmen but also all craft employees in a way that doesn't exactly lose a family house, apartment, because it doesn't happen in stock companies, in legal persons. And in this way we will first and foremost allow for the development of the crafts but certainly with certain incentive measures through certain institutions and through your ministry Now, I'm going to finish one sentence. [[Intruder: Time.]] Enable job creation. [[Intruder: Response, Replication response.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40567	The reply to the replica of Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40568	Thank you very much. Here's a chance to congratulate you on your choice again. In the second round, I was rooting for you while I was following the results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40569	Mr. Secretary, please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40570	Okay. Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The fact is that we are helping this law and that people know it very well and that they react well and that the adoption of this law will open up more crafts and when, especially when we put this one in another reading of the provision that the whole family, regardless of the presence of craftsmen, can help because so far it has been used so badly because the man had to be on the spot. But then it'll be attractive for people to open turns. So I watch what's easier for people and start opening turns. As for the employees themselves, one statistic, Milosevic said the year after year should be compared. So last year in the first four months 650 more jobs were opened in the craft than closed for the season, of course coming. And this year, 2850. So... We have jobs plus in the first four months of this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Probably something contributes to what I said from 80 to 230 thousand kuna entering the VAT system and everything the government is doing to facilitate small entrepreneurs in the past year. So I'm satisfied, 2250... jobs more open in the craft than in the same period last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's something that tells me we're on the right track. When we pass this law, there will be a situation that we believe is much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40571	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected representative, Natalija Martincevic, will speak. And after that, dear colleague Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40572	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to emphasise once again the importance and necessity of passing this law here. The existing law of 1993 certainly needed a new solution and adaptation to the existing situation in the craft, and it is, as it is known, not good. The craftsmanship is certainly an extremely important segment of the Croatian economy, which is, according to the 2012 data, 42% of economic operators, the total employment is between 14% and 17% and in the gross social product with cca. 8%. Looking at the statistics of active crafts in December 2012 there were over 83,000 of them and that is the data that we are dealing with here today. However, I have been preparing for this debate to come to the conclusion that this number has dropped to 79,000, which has shown a very negative trend for a long time, which, of course, indicates the necessity of implementing support measures and helping our craftsmanship. What may be most important to say is that it also enables self-employment and employment and often many who, for their own age or age or some other reason, would stay out of the labour market and thus on the burden of society. The craftsmanship is of course important... major economic operators in particular in the activities of the processing industry and also of exceptional importance for the development of tourism, i.e. complementing the tourist offer especially through traditional and artistic crafts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is from all the above mentioned about this part of our very fragile economy that special concerns should be taken and the adoption of this law is one of the steps in this direction. And that is why it is extremely important for him to be the basis for the recovery of our craftsmanship and, of course, the overall economy. There's been a lot of talk here today about various polls. I have to be honest with you that I may have been the most uncomfortable surprise by a survey conducted by a craft chamber in which only one of the 10 respondents is satisfied with the work of the resolution ministry. Of course it's hard for anyone to be satisfied with anything at a time of this kind of crisis. But it certainly is a good indicator, and since I truly believe that the ministry is working very hard, I think that we should improve and strengthen communication, there have been a lot of words about it today. Because without direct contact not only with the craft chamber as an institution but also directly with craftsmen on the ground, a common goal cannot be achieved and this is to improve the business of Croatian craftsmen. I have to say, I've also studied all the observations of the craft chamber, but I've also studied the observations of the Varazdin County Chamber of crafts, so the regional crafts chamber, and I must say that some of these requests really seem justified to me. There's been a lot of them here today, a lot of words. I may just get a few of them, the rest will be colleagues Baranovic. Therefore, the requirement that legal persons engaged in the activities of tied crafts must, as well as craftsmen, have a professional professionally trained person, seems quite realistic to me. I think it can very easily be regulated precisely by the Law on crafts in such a way as to prescribe that even a legal person who performs crafts must meet all the conditions as well as a natural person craftsman. Such an approach, apart from the protection of citizens and consumers, also ensures the competitiveness of all Croatian entrepreneurs on the very near single European market. I also find the proposal to add the word "specific" to Article 50(1) to the word "determination", which refers to products from the activities of the free crafts contained on the list of products brought by the resolution minister. Otherwise, domestic labor is equated in every respect with a craft and there is really no need for the introduction of two legal institutes. Therefore, this situation refers to Articles 49, 50, 51 and 52, because such definitions give the right to a natural person to carry out all crafts activities without restrictions, which is, in fact, legally and in fact, even with a craftsman, without having the status of craftsmen. Here one front of the inability of quality supervision and possible work on black and non-reportable income may be opened which, of course, now that order is finally being led and introduced in the country is not an acceptable solution. And, of course, Article 36, given that this is an extremely important and sensitive situation which, given what kind of solution this law will formulate, will have a major impact on the further development of craftsmanship in Croatia, especially when taking into account the Constitutional Court's decision. It is important that this part of the law is also agreed on by the craftsmen and the Ministry, i.e. that it is clearly and unequivocally prescribed which part of the property is held by the craftsman in carrying out his trade activities. Otherwise, the craftsman matches all his assets. In their arguments, craftsmen also call for positive solutions from some Member States of the European Union, e.g. France, which has made it possible for small entrepreneurs who have come into bankruptcy because of a bad business environment. It is a quick recovery and continuation of work through the Law on the limited liability of small entrepreneurs of natural persons. What will happen to our craftsmanship depends primarily on the coming out of the crisis, on the legal solutions of this government, depending on the economic policy of this government, depends on the units of local self-government. Here we are in Varazdin making a whole series of measures that we can as a unit of local self-government help craftsmen. I don't get to name them all here, but it won't, of course, save craftsmanship, but with the positive measures of this government that I expect to follow can help preserve crafts and preserve jobs. In the end, I would just welcome the ministry's efforts to make these laws a complete problem of craftsmanship, the law has offered some good solutions, but I would like to say that this law is going on in good luck in two readings, that all the objections of the Chamber of craftsmen, the regional chambers of craftsmen, MPs here in the Parliament, and that better solutions are found for the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40573	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, with associates and associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, as well as in my personal craftsman since 19th, I welcome the Ministry's intention to adopt a new Law on craftsmanship, especially on the light of Croatia's entry into the European Union, a much wider market and in some of the new circumstances in business, but I will comment on some of the things that concern and the text that has been forwarded by the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen to all MPs, and I will also comment on some of the things that the minister has touched, in which I am personally giving him, and on behalf of the HNS Club, full support. We will start with the Croatian Chamber of crafts and the polemics of the HOK poll or the ministry poll. The theme of functions, the role in the company of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, its efficiency, the degree of use of craft services in the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen. Mr. Minister is quite right about that and I speak out of personal experience because I closed the craft in 2011, for 22 years I worked as a craftsman, worked in the chamber system as an activist, experienced what I experienced because of what was written in the internal acts of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, regional craftsmen's chambers and craftsmen's associations. And it was written below each level, in a democratic society the way it manipulated the elections in the Chamber of Commerce is below each level of a democratic society. The fact is that the arrival of Mr. Ranogajci started the process of reform, but it was not implemented until the end and the ministry's intensity to introduce order and that the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen would cease to be life-long... some activists who would probably only be taken from function by biology. He's absolutely right, and that's where I give him the right. I know that on a personal example. My personal example was even a scandal that turned into a public scandal, ended up on HTV, and the outcome of the scandal was at the district headquarters of a party and was generated by one representative of the same party, it is known which, in 2007. You know very well which one. So much for that. However, as well as a long-standing craftsman, they can read more subtlely certain comments and their importance as well as in which the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen in this part, and in this case covers their role as partner to the Government, partner to the ministries and represents the interest of craftsmen. In one part, I believe there are elements to question the provisions of this law. The question of qualifications for performing tied crafts where a master’s examination and professional qualification are prescribed to carry out such crafts is a question to be considered in the light of relations with companies carrying out the same activity. I don't see any reason why they wouldn't think about and install in the provisions of the law that those companies that carry out the same activities as tied crafts must have professional qualifications and have master's exams. I'll explain briefly why. I'd hate to be installed by a shipping installation company and sent to me by someone who doesn't have an expert exam and who doesn't have a master's exam so that in four or five days at sea, they start burning my installations. It's very embarrassing, you know, who didn't experience it doesn't know what it looks like. And there is no reason not to reconsider and consider the provision of this law, i.e. this observation by the Croatian Chamber of crafts. Also, the issue of secondary activity and the removal of a list of secondary activities, crafts that are needed and can be carried out as a secondary activity, I am afraid that in the field of services, most of the crafts will be in the area of difficulty. Because if we allow without any criteria that any natural person is engaged in secondary activities, the question is how many craftsmen will endure such competition. The question is whether it is normal for any natural person, regardless of their material, social status, to enter income in the main activity as a competition for craftsmen whose only source of existence. And I think you should consider that, too. As for the Law on the Trade of the former, he predicted multidisciplinaryism in one way, you were able as a craftsman to deal at the same time with taxis for example and fishing crafts or fishing crafts and catering crafts. Few people know how much room for manipulation there is in that particular variant. I'll give you a quick quote. The owner of the restaurant – the caterer registers for a fishing craft, gets a blue diesel card, drives his boat for recreation and fishing on blue diesel, buys the fish in a sports fisherman. Under the Marine Fisheries Act, it is reported as its catch and achieves a 14% boost. That's what I warned Minister Shuker's assistant in 2007, but of course it went to the vet. No one's listening to that. I also know very well how much money has been drawn, and you can't prove it just because you left that legal moment and the possibility of being manipulated in this way. The taxi carrier is a fisherman. There are cases like this. See what kind of vehicle drives such a taxi carrier. They're all riding diesel. Normal thing, has a blue diesel card, reports that catch is 5 kilos of fish, lifts the blue diesel at the pump, pours it into the taxi and cuts the Croatian state budget. Of course, these are individuals who embarrass the honorable craftsmanship. But I'm saying that in laws that ad hoc are passed, there are no laws in which there are no hearings to be reconsidered and the debates become holes. I welcome the ministry's efforts to finally correct one injustice, which is to equalise employees' rights with craftsmen and craftsmen. In any case, to praise something that has hurt the eyes and hearts of every craftsman for decades. In particular, my fellow professional fishermen at sea, craftsmen did not have the right to benefit from their work experience, and their employees did, and they lived and worked in exactly the same conditions and melted under the same conditions. Is it normal, and to date it is such a condition that a man who is a craftsman works as a professional fisherman can't have an unfettered internship and must work up to 65 years which is impossible, and that his employee has the right to an unfettered job. So, it's for every commendation. Also, those changes to the provisions concerning the transfer of rights to crafts after it ceases to carry out activities from a particular craft, and that it can be transferred to members of the family without any difficulty. And that was one illogical thing. As for the position and role of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. Yes, the Croatian Chamber of crafts needs Croatian craftsmen. But the Croatian Chamber of crafts must be in line with all the positive norms of the functioning of democratic society and it cannot happen that internal acts are laid down so that a group of people manipulates the system for years. And the truth is what it says in the polls, the undeniable truth in the electoral process, which should go from the bottom to the principle of excellence to the top, is actively entering fewer craftsmen than citizens have come to elections on the European Parliament in the Republic of Croatia. If it enters the election process of 10 craftsmen, I give my life. I've witnessed it, and I've been ashamed of what I am, and then I have to testify to that kind of operation of the craftsman's system. The Ministry is absolutely right. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring an end to the debate.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40574	Thank you. We have replicas. First, the presentation of my colleague Martinčević. Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40575	Thank you very much. Here, colleague Martincevic, I absolutely agree with you that there must be equal conditions for craftsmen of a natural person as well as for legal persons doing jobs, doing crafts. Although the minister here said he didn't remember anyone entering the hair salon asking if the hairdresser had a master's exam. It's not Mr. Minister, of course he's not asking because he believes that when she gave someone a craftsman and permission to do a certain job, she's going to get it wrong and that the person who does the job and knows how to do it, not that the citizens are going to let someone do whatever they do, and then I guess they're complaining later, and we know that there's no mandatory liability insurance. So, I absolutely think it should be for special, tied-up twists as the law predicts that it must be appropriate to prepare, master's exams and that it must then have a legal person who does so. What I don't think is good and that it shouldn't be in these exams or testimonies, master's exams, etc. something that we find in the professional training programme brought by the ministry. Here it also says on the proposal of the Chamber of Brethren, but somewhere in 2012, and I read this, let's say that if you want to be a master of the roaster or pizza master, then you have in the program a part of the inheritance law, inheritance and legal order, then land books, the role of land books in legal traffic, land books and public documents, which consists of land books, which is a collection of documents that I don't read any further of the Law on Commercial Society, bankruptcy by the trader of individuals, society, society, society of capital. It's all in the training program for the pizza master for the subcontractor. for the florist of the arrangements, etc. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40576	Please, colleague Lovrin, take care of the weather. Natalija Martincevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40577	Here's a very short one, of course, I think most of them agreed that this is one provision of a law that should be considered and amended. This was not only said by craft chambers and district craft chambers, craftsmen associations, but also by individual craftsmen because they are indeed placed in an unequal position by this provision of the law. Therefore, it should, of course, establish exactly the same conditions and requirements for all those carrying out certain activities. It's not important for a hairdresser, of course. Here's mine I've never asked if she has a craftsman because I really believe she does, but for example, for someone who's installing gas installations, I think it would be very good to know that she has a certificate and that's necessary and important. So I think this is one of the provisions of the law that should change by next reading anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40578	Thank you. And now at the presentation of counterpart Baranovic first, counterpart Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40579	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a short, long memory in this Croatian Assembly, but I've never heard one swear on a life like you said about a certain one, but we've had a good chance to see it, too. I haven't prepared myself for this debate and I haven't read these materials that were sent 9 pages from Mr. Ranogajc, I'm just reading certain things and, above all, about HOK colleague Baranovic. You mentioned your experiences, etc. So I want to warn you of some circumstances that may be very dangerous. According to the law, the chamber is an independent professional business organisation of craftsmen established to promote the coordination and representation of common interests of craftsmen. So I'm particularly undermining this on my own. And now look, in this bill of law, the previous opinion, the opinion of the minister on the Statute and the acts of the HOK, has been given so far as to be in conformity with the law. I read this to my colleague Baranovic as one attempt to tell the ministries to control an economic non-profit organisation. That's how I read that I can't read. But let me also pull the parallel with the Croatian Agricultural Chamber which also somehow had its own bodies, but at a certain point it ended as it ended. And now if that's how it ended, but there are no other services trained to prepare our farmer so he can't go in lying down. He is not prepared for EU accession, these other services that swore they would take over all of the other commitments are not qualified. And there's danger in that part, and that's why we want to warn you in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40580	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40581	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Milinkovic, do you know why I must have sworn such an oath? Because I witnessed this disgrace. Since 1900 registered craftsmen in the area of one of the associations that I don't now appoint, and you can assume, at the time of 8, 9 years ago, the hands of craftsmen came, you could count them on your fingers. And that was the election. And then such elections in the next case were challenged by the basis of the shameful statutes of the Regional Chamber of Brethren in which the Administrative Council of the preceding call could challenge the democratically expressed will of the people who chose in the section. It was a circus. I hear the arrival of Mr. Ranogajec's new president has started a series of positive changes, but the ones in this reading I'm still reading haven't reached enough levels. As far as this other debt is concerned, it's a subject and I can't answer that in a replica I have another minute. I advocate that the chamber has its function and role in society, it is in a series of laws of resolution prescribed as a partner in the creation of legislative acts by resolute ministries, government and parliament. That is why their opinion should be heard, I have defended in this debate some of their views that I personally consider as a former craftsman but also as a man who thinks about problems with his head that they have a resolution and I advocate that some things are being reconsidered by the HOC as problems. But I'm not about being inside of the HOK doing what comes to my mind because it's been happening so far. That's what's happened so far. And that's where I'm willing to go in with everyone in the debate, and that's how I'm going with the full top of the HOC and the former presidents, because I stress that the new president has made some changes. And about the involvement of politics and commitment in the HOC, I think you gentlemen know a lot more about this side of Parliament than this side knows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40582	Thank you very much. Replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40583	Well, here's my colleague Baranovic, I wouldn't go into the relationship between politics and the HOK, but at this point we have about 85 thousand active crafts, production crafts 9 229, service craft 29 thousand, in the hospitality tourism industry over 14 thousand, in the shop 13 thousand, transportation of persons and things 7 710, fishing, mariculture, agriculture 4 695, hairdressers, cosmetics and him body, fitness 536. That's how it's arranged for craftsmen. First of all, wanting to contribute to the development of craftsmanship, but also to the positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia what I agree absolutely agree to be a direct choice, but this direct choice should then be for all chambers that exist in the Republic of Croatia. For example, we have a special law on Croatia's agricultural chamber where it is a voluntary membership. Here if you are a craftsman you must be a member of the HOK, if you are a businessman you must be a member of the HGK, if you are a doctor then you must be a medical chamber, if you are an architect, if you are an engineer. And then you have a whole series of those scales that you just can't do the job if you're like. An architect cheaper than the levels brought by the Chamber of Architects because it's thought to be a demolition, threatening to throw out of the chamber, etc. So, first of all, I advocate that the same right and the same law be to all chambers as the Croatian Chamber of crafts. But I still think the biggest problem is this very issue of bringing ownership into the crafts. Imagine a young man, one sentence opens a craft and must be placed on a drum family house, inherited or bought.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40584	We have a lot of speakers and please stick to the time. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40585	Very briefly, Madam Vice President, thank you. Dear colleague Vinkovic, what I advocate is that it is to heal and make a more effective position of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen in the protection of the interests of craftsmen, and when I talk about the craftsmen themselves, what I think the Government must provide, and in that part can agree with part of the remarks of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, which she has passed on to us in principle to the representatives, it is that no provision can be made for unfair competition to craftsmen, because today they are in a sufficiently difficult position to witness the number of closed crafts in the last 4.5 years in which you, I do not remember the figures, which you are in this debate this morning. The fact is that the market is getting smaller, that demand for services and products is getting smaller because of recession and because of the objective fall in purchasing power, and if we allow for a lack of bad intentions rather than a simple failure, we bring in law, regulation or provisions and parts and articles that will allow for unfair competition to be created even in a small part, we have created a major problem for craftsmen. And so I appeal to the restoring ministry that in this inter-periode between the 1st and the 2nd readings, truly without passion and without anything, without any preconvince, we objectively see or look at and we MPs contribute to the fact that the law is broken into detail. Because on the example of the abuse of the rights of craftsmen to be able to carry out more activities within one craft, and these are the exact and exact examples that I have given you with the certificates in practice, it is seen that the law that is passed at a speed which does not predict every detail creates a space on the one hand for manipulation and the play of the state budget, and on the other hand to open a space for difficult business and to create unfair competition, the failure of Croatian craftsmen who do their work fairly and who are the only existence to them and their families. I therefore ask and appeal to all that this law, given the importance of craftsmanship in the Croatian economy, is particularly reflected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40586	Thank you very much. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40587	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. ... that this law will allow the introduction of order into the Chamber of crafts to see that you have experience in this business that you have some personal and negative obvious experiences and that perhaps you are looking at it from that point of view a little bit. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] What is actually not going to save the craftsmen, and that is an argument when you support the law in this way, the argument is what Mr. Minister said just before when he said this law was written and the inspectors participated in it. So if there's anything suffocating craftsmen today, if anything destroys them, they're inspection services. So how the craftsman will survive if he gets an inspection that he didn't see in his workshop a sticker for the necessary exit and it's a metal workshop and when he's punished for violations of 2,000 kuna because he doesn't have a sticker, instead of the inspector telling him please put that sticker up within two days. And even in the court of the criminal court where the public space is also business space has no label for the necessary exit. That solves the issues of the craftsman. Let's get them off their backs of inspection, get them off their loads, take off those who ask them daily to write thousands of papers, report reports, and pay their fines daily. That's what needs to be solved. And we're going to discuss here how craftsmen will choose the president whether 5 craftsmen or 1500 craftsmen will go to the polls, so that's the business of craftsmen. They all have the right and opportunities to come out, it's their business if they don't want to make it. That's their right, that's their will and let them decide. The craft chamber has to decide that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40588	Thank you. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40589	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, do you know when I baked the trade and studied the good statutes and realized which tricks boys manipulate the system? At the time your party colleague led the Croatian Chamber of crafts, when it was your... party. So much for that. And as for your appeal to remove inspection services with the door of craftsmen, I don't know if you're aware of what you said. You want to suspend the rule of law and open up the possibility that everyone does what comes to their minds. No, I'll be happy when inspection services are equally diligently visiting the small craftsmen and the largest companies and companies in this country. And when fully equally treated in the control of inspection of the most powerful and weakest, and all in terms of functioning and the purpose of functioning of the rule of law for the protection of consumers in the Republic of Croatia and respect for the law of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot advocate the anarchy. We can advocate the full and equal, equal functioning of the system. It's the only principle to get us out of the crisis. Not an honest craftsman the problem of inspection, inspection is a problem for those who violate the laws and the problem of inspection are those segments of inspection that do not work properly and are subject to all those worse phenomena in Croatian society such as corruption, these are problems that will allow the fuckman to do further what comes to his mind, and then to meet the norm of insisting on respecting the form such as that sticker you mentioned, in that part you are right. Is sometimes regrettable because of the state in which we are general, and so are the conditions in which inspections in the Republic of Croatia are individual fulfillment forms trained on those who are weakest and charge penalties for formal violations. And the real robbers pass in silence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40590	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40591	Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDSS Club support the efforts of the promoters, i.e. the minister and his team of associates in this effort to amend the law, namely the completion of the Law on craftsmanship, which was the first, first version adopted in 93. And as we can see, this is her fifth change. I also personally lived with craftsmanship almost my whole life and a long time ago when, when a craftsman had no job experience, when a craftsman couldn't raise a loan. And, but then craftsmanship was one respected respected system. Membership in the crafts chamber was once hung as a memory of pictures as a family tradition, and then craftsmen were somehow a pillar of a middle civil class. Fortunately today, we have a more favourable relationship in craftsmanship. The craftsmen, of course, also have a job experience and can go to the banks, they can borrow credit, mortgage, so they can develop economically and that's of course good. For that reason, I think this model is still to be completed and it's a good thing this is the first reading. And all of us who participate in this debate have good intentions, so good suggestions with the goal of adapting this serious thing to real life in another reading. Statistics suggest that some 200,000 people were employed in the craft and in the activities of the free professions in the third month of this year. If we say that now, in addition to how many people work in the OPG, in the OPGs, then we see that it's actually one of the most interesting and vital parts of our society. 200 grand in crafts, 100 grand in the OPG is much more than what employees in large commercial systems do and where they rest, on which our economic development strategy rests. I mean, I mean, in some countries like Switzerland, Austria and some other Western European craftsmanship, little entrepreneurship is the basis for economic development, and it is preserved as sacred. In addition, the proposals and guidelines of the European Union go in this direction and say that special concerns must be directed towards small entrepreneurs all under the gesture of first thoughts on small ones. So it is said that this obligation will probably wait for us to be one of the principles that Member States must, through regulations, enable small entrepreneurs who have come into bankruptcy for business environments, not by their own fault, to recover quickly and to continue work. So, this is something that is the postulate of the European Union in relation to small craftsmen and some kind of obligation that will very quickly begin to bind us and the question of whether we are most prepared for this obligation. I'm just going to say here a comparative between the position of craft and the position of companies in a formal legal sense. So the trades don't have the basic capital. For the establishment of companies, it takes 20,000 for d.o.o. up to 200 thousand d.d. companies, companies. The costs of setting up companies are about 6 thousand kuna and for trades are about 240 kuna with this last one, with the last benefits going towards companies. According to data, companies are set up for 40 days on average while trades are set up from 3 to 15 days maximum. And the most important thing, the responsibility we all talk about all the time, and what we all point to is that the trades are responsible for the entire assets for the obligations of the craft. While companies correspond to the level of underlying capital. So maybe that's the answer to all of this that we've been asking so far how to define the key thing and that's the responsibility of the material responsibility of the business craftsman. I think these legal changes were given by the Proposer several good solutions that we support. First of all, when I talk about this segment of responsibility. We think the proposed solution is very good. That the execution cannot be carried out over a house or apartment owned by a craftsman. Therefore, further if a craftsman lives in that house as well as in business premises where the activity which is the main source of his means of life is carried out. Here, of course, reference should be made, as colleagues have said to the Constitutional Court's ruling where Article 20 was amended. The law of craftsmanship. Because it was completely illogical and there is no basis for companies to match their entire assets and craftsmen to unconfirmed parts of the assets. So some data suggest that in 2012 the execution was carried out on 4000 784 citizens' properties. What is estimated to have been three hundred executions on craftsmen's real estates. That's, that information goes in favor of what I just said. And I completely agree and it is acceptable to find some colleagues who say that the assets entered into the craft should be more clearly defined. When we define that category, then we will, and I don't think that's the problem, which is why I said, I've been compatriating how formally regulated both trades and companies are then we won't have any more risks, the risk of that bankruptcy due to negative business. I think it's a good thing that VAT is charged for craftsmen, for the realisation of invoices, it was among other things a very big problem of the liquidity of craftsmen, and it's also a problem that remains certain parafiscal burdens that have been discussed here today. I fully join such an assessment that there remains a very large amount of parafiscal burdens that craftsmen burden. Among other things, I know from experience that you have the fact that they are also with due respect, and you need to respect the system, inspection supervision, but it's a matter of discussion to someone else at the same time how it all works. You also have a fact that if you're not reported to ZAMP, and there's an inspection and you see that you're listening to your own little radio, you risk a fine of up to 50,000 kuna to pay for it. If you don't have a book of appeals, and it can be written through an ordinary notebook, but it must be addressed as a book of appeals, you risk a very high sentence and some inspectors, of course, do so in the framework of their legal powers. And that's what colleagues probably wanted to say, that part should make sure that the part of the craftsman's work is relieved with all these duties. Of course, we also support this news, so these novels that you have proposed in these legal changes, such as the transfer of crafts for the life of craftsmen, it is a good thing, because other than craftsmen in the development of crafts during work, members of their families are involved, so it is logical that, after leaving the craftsmen in retirement, they can be transferred by a simple, informal, less administrative act to the heirs within the family. That's quite a good thing. Of course we also support the possibility of seasonal crafting, we think it increases the dynamics of crafting itself. We also fully support the fact that in the event of the closure of the crafts, the owner will have the same rights at the Employment Service as other employees, and it is particularly important that he has the right to compensation for the unemployed. If we want to equalize all categories then of course we must also enable the craft to consume this one convenience. We think of the chamber itself in principle that membership in chambers should be voluntary. It is an interesting association and therefore it should be voluntary, the only question is whether it is a voluntary membership only in this chamber or whether we can discuss the complete chamber system in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, such a voluntary concept requires a specific, different approach to it all. According to this model that we now have mandatory membership, it's perfectly normal for certain fees to be determined here. We support the fact that there is now a unique rate of chamber contributions in the flat-rate amount for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia because it was not good to charge this territorially quite differently. But speaking of chambers, I think there's something to say here. We fully respect the fact that the chamber demands their autonomy, that's one thing and no one is against it. However, it is unexplainable to say that this chamber of ours, which we are talking about today, accounts for about 18 million kuna annually and that it is from the fiscal contribution of 85,000 users, i.e. the obligor of this fiscal burden and that the public does not have the right to know where 18 million kuna is spent. So then, here you can talk about high contributions and annual revenues from some other chambers and then speculated over the media about buying expensive and valuable paintings, and then talking about large and expensive offices, etc., so non-intentional chamber spending. In order to avoid it, I do not prejudge that this is happening, but so to avoid it quite logically is to expect that when it comes to such great public money that it also lays down a public account where this public money is spent and it would be good and in any case it is our proposal that the chambers have an obligation at least once a year to go before this assembly, in this assembly to place an account of the purpose where they use these funds. The election of the President of the Chamber of crafts, there's a lot of dilemma here. We are in principle for this, and we think it is more democratic to do this directly, but this direct choice model needs to be completed. We don't think this concept has finished it. The question is how to choose. If this is right by the concept of how some public officials are elected, then the question is recall. If we chose him in the same way, we have to call him off, so that's where the recall problem arises. We also think that the question here is what is unscheduled in the direct election, who has all the active voting rights. According to that logic, an active electoral right, so to choose, would have all 84,000 craftsmen paying for the chamber's contribution. If a man pays a chamber contribution and goes into the direct election of their leader it is logical that each of these people then has the right to express their opinion, that their voice, and I fear that such a system will not function in the desired way. So we are in principle for direct selection, but we think that this model in law, I don't know the article that it's about, should be specially completed. And we, like all clubs, have received remarks about what the Chamber of crafts is talking about here. In particular, I would say that for us, the comments in Article 56, Article 63 and Article 67 are acceptable, namely the training programme. We think it is logical that the teaching programme requires the previously obtained opinion of the Croatian Chamber of crafts which has dealt with these matters so far. In Article 63, we believe that the auxiliary exam is a solution which the chamber proposes is quite rational, that, therefore, two exams are not passed but one exam, and we think that it is quite logical in addition to Article 67 where it is said that the rights recognised by this law to persons with master's examination are also recognised to persons who are on July 1st, '94. have had adequate secondary vocational education and at least 5 years of working experience in the performance of the activity for which the master's examination is sought. I think this is very rational both in a way and in a fair way, that is, a fair relationship with people who have acquired certain qualifications before the adoption of this law to commit themselves under the same category of master's examination. A master's exam is something that is the highlight of a craftsman's career. It's like a document being framed and standing in a house like a family treasure. Thank you very much. Therefore, we will support, we will support these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40592	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40593	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, you said in the opening section that it was a positive environment for craft activity, that they had changed to a better situation, that they were allowed to borrow, that they were able to enroll, that they were getting better and better. Well, if that were the case, there wouldn't be any fewer and fewer. Smaller crafts, less craftsmen. 30,000 less crafts, and 51,000 employees in crafts. Only if you walk traditional craft streets in Zagreb, old Vlaška, Ilica, Maksimirska, Zvonimirova sometimes 30 years ago, 40 or 15 years ago each third window was written by a craft shop. They're almost gone today. Out of sadness, you can't get past Maksimirski, Zvonimir, Ilica or old Vlaška. They write in a window where it's closed so you don't see a mess inside or it's closed or it's redecorated or it's rented or sold. Why? Because everything under wraps for craftsmen is getting worse in Croatia regarding the placement of their services and products, about the collection and what nobody else seems to have indicated to me is not the craftsmen in Croatia. The craftsmen are believers in Croatia. It all worked out how to guarantee their assets as if they were debtors. The craftsmen are in debt! They're believers. They're the ones who got the most or if they're co-operatives or if they placed their products, so they can't charge. And at least they're receiving credit arrangements, not to mention the Competition Protection Agency, which for the first time in 20 years said two bakers agreed on the price, and the big ones have been negotiating for 20 years and they've been silent all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40594	Thank you. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40595	Thank you. Comrade Maric, you have correctly established the current position of the craftsman. However, I initially said that I was the child of a craftsman from a long time ago when they had neither a job nor the possibility of a loan, they were left to themselves because the system set it up. It is a good and better thing than today that I can do – we also have a job experience, we also have loans. What you were just talking about is a picture of a general state of society. I totally agree with you that we don't have any real craftsmen anymore. They were once a pillar of a civil society. They were decorations of every environment, their shops were decorations of every environment, and some hired six and seven scientists. So that used to be called scientists, young people who trained with them for their future crafts. It's gone today, and I agree with you. And I think if this law doesn't fix the situation in crafts, but it's going to set up some frameworks, it's going to give some basic elements that these craftsmen will be able to move on. They are the greatest believers, which is why I compared them. They and small family economies are, in my opinion, the most flexible, toughest part of the economy right now. They don't owe taxes, they don't owe electricity, they pay their obligations regularly. The question when the state collects what they need to get through incentives and the question when they in that system turn their claims but are definitely the most vital system. And it's a shame that we prefer some big systems, big companies, and here we're not talking about the real state of things. This is about data from several hundred thousand people who employ both craftsmen and family farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40596	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40597	Dear fellow Horvat, so the problem is right now you have touched in this replica and in your presentation many craftsmen have failed precisely because of the trade chains. Many craftsmen failed because of a strong import lobby. When you mention it, you come from a craftsman's family, you know, well, remember those times, we used to have money, but we didn't have goods. We couldn't buy, remember all those tails for diapers, bananas, gasoline, etc. Today we have an abundance of goods that we imported and we don't have any money. 400,000 people are out of work, it's 400,000 families living under human dignity, because you know that the greatest punishment doesn't have a job, can't raise their own children, can't afford what other children have. It seems to me that all these years of craftsmanship has been left to ourselves and that we didn't care about people's fates but we, remember the first Croatian president who said no one would go to Austria's and Hungary's villages to buy, we'll open trade chains in their country. We've opened trade chains, we've ruined a lot of things at the expense of those trade chains where our craftsmen can't sell their goods because she's on the highest shelf, because she's invisible. So this is like I said before just, this law, it's one drop in the sea, I don't think it's strategic. That doesn't mean there's no good will, but I don't think this law itself is going to solve much. And I agree with this that there should be bills for which both HGK and HOK are being spent because you know for a fact that Nadan Vidosevic said that when he buys expensive pictures to help artists, he's a liar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40598	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40599	Thank you. I fully agree with you that by preferring large trading houses, or large trade chains, we have actually led to a shut-down not only of the crafts, but of the trades that life meant in the bar, in the small environments. I don't think I'm going to be wrong, but around the city of Osijek, an 18-mega-market ring was created at one point. All those little shops automatically went out in our midst. And in those shops, there were still two, three people in some local environment, some poor girl was getting some kind of pay and some family lived. Now it's gone. That there are no more old crafts, that there is nothing more than what is bought in mega-centres. So let's channel life towards the big mega centers and then it'll be a successful formula for how people live in the West. I know, but we're not west by a lot of elements and I don't think in that direction we should go strategically when we talk about economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40600	And colleague Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40601	... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40602	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40603	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So you mentioned a large amount of money, about 18 million kunas, which are turned around through the Chamber of Commerce and that it is therefore good to submit a report on their spending because this is about public money. In addition to one correction, it is not a matter of public money because the funds are necessary for the work of the Chamber of craftsmen themselves and the income from the assets, revenues from the exercise of public powers, etc. So there's no public and state money. But I would, in part, agree with you that this could be requested because it is still a forced membership and forced payment of the chamber's contribution. And it's also about public charges, although craftsmen themselves pay for it all, but it's about the collection of public powers that the state has transferred to the Chamber of Commerce, so it would probably be the state's doing that to collect that money into the budget. What I advocate is only a unique approach, so to a unique and identical legal regulation on the same social facts and other legal frameworks. So if we're going to report on this type of income of all the contributions citizens and legally commit to, then there's still a number of subjects, and that's what the government has to think about, a number of entities that should submit the report. Here's an example of HGK, and then let's say public notebooks taking over state powers, so the state transfers some of its powers and gives them a tariff provision, so there's room for a report to see what's been done, etc., etc. So, what I don't think is right in this law is that there's only one segment of society that the government has to think completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40604	Thank you. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40605	Thank you. So, colleagues may not even be about the classic character of public money, but it is about big money, it is about large amounts of money that should be known, so the public should know where these money is being spent and then, in my opinion, there would be less speculation in terms of the inscription that some expensive paintings were being bought, that expensive cars were being bought, that they were being arranged inappropriately expensive offices etc., etc. So it's logical and I don't see why it wouldn't be, nor would such an annual report in this House reduce the autonomy of chamber work. I don't see what would change here except for the credibility of spending such large amounts of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40606	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, colleague Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40607	I would like to thank Mrs. Chairman, respected members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a lot of talk today about the Law of Turning, but I have a slight feeling that we talked a lot more about the chamber, about the relations between the minister and the president of the chamber than we talked about the problems of the craftsmen themselves. This law that is before us today and which we are discussing is only the first step in solving a whole huge and huge problem regarding craftsmen and craftsmanship. The things that open up to us right at the beginning and around which we may have lost the most time today is the HOC. And I'm going to start with this last line from my colleague Horvat who said that the public should know where the HOK's money is spent. Not the public, it should be known first by craftsmen who, unfortunately, do not know it because in the HOK, there is a situation that even members of the county branches do not get a glimpse of the financial reports, the annual financial reports of their county branches. And that's not good. These are things that deter craftsmen from some co-existence and quality relationship with the Croatian Chamber of crafts which together with the Ministry of Economy, together with the Ministry of Finance and Tax Services and Inspectorates of craftsmen should be business partners. Only if we lay the story of craftsmanship and craftsmen on such foundations can we expect that certain results will eventually become better, not that more and more craftsmen will close from day to day, and more and more craftsmen will be out of work. We have to be honest and say on the basis of what we heard today, and I believe that a large part of us knows the relationship between the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the County Chamber, so today the minister mentioned on several occasions certain county chambers with which he has very good and correct relations, but we also witness the impatience between the minister and the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which just confirms that something in Croatia is wrong and that it is not okay. And they don't understand their relationships by the structures they have by the statutes and by the rules. Now, if the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship are going to solve these changes and these changes to the law and some of the problems they want to solve, then it would be very good for us all to bring together the smartest solutions, the smartest amendments and the smartest conclusions that will ultimately bring good to those craftsmen. Believe me, the craftsman is least interested in whether the Minister and President of the Chamber of crafts agree or disagree. It is important for both the Minister and the President of the Chamber of craftsmen and all structures related to the work of craftsmen and craftsmen to adopt the smartest, best, most optimistic laws that will be easy to implement. With this bill of law, we come up with a lot of unspeakableness, leaving a lot of open space which, ultimately, when the law begins alone, brings new and new problems as such. We are witnessing such a problem precisely in the inability of craftsmen to exercise their rights in the same way as any of their employees do, and that is the right to compensation during unemployment. It took us an awful lot of years to bring in such a change that we could bring in an emergency procedure very, very quickly. So that's the problem we need to solve. If craftsmen point out, if the system detects that the problem exists if this problem refers to 5, 10, 20 thousand people then the task of the Ministry of crafts and the task of the Croatian Chamber of crafts is one and only, that the craftsmen's problem is spotless, fast and instant and no other justification is available because I think that none of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen or presidents have bothered to close the craftsmen who had to close the crafts because of the poor economic situation offer them any compensation from the contributions received to Croatia's crafts chamber because they are unemployed. And someone's guilty because the craftsmen didn't pay a contribution to employment because that someone had to say 1%, 2%, 3%, 5%, as long as it took to have certain rights. A craftsman himself cannot handle legal regulations. As for tied crafts and master exams and having a qualification thing can be very easy to solve, but before we begin to solve the problem we have to ask one question. Why did we even begin to implement the master exams, and why does the Croatian Chamber of crafts have public authority? We have the Ministry of Education who can certainly make a curricula, we have an agency that can also carry out the training of any master or give permission for any laid qualifications. But even if the situation remains such that this obligation and the possibility of qualification are given to the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, then we must have one rule, which is that the craftsman and the legal entity, or the natural person and legal entity in the Republic of Croatia, must finally start working under the same rules. We can't ask a craftsman to have a master's exam, from entrepreneurs not to have one, and all the time we're talking about the same thing, which is consumer and user protection. It was very difficult for me today when the minister said that we can't now allow 10,000 hosts to be sent to the master's exam and require extra cost, and they're doing well anyway. But if those 10,000 caterers who work in D.O. are doing well who's the one who's going to say that the caterer who works in the craft is doing bad? What are these criteria that force craftsmen to pass a master's exam to work well, and the legal entity should not take that master's exam or have certain qualifications? So these are things that we can't let happen to us because they just lead us to some legal uncertainty that's not good. And in the end, we come up with another problem, which is inspection services. If we are not decided until the end, if we do not write it down to be understood at the end of the day again, this particular craftsman is suffering precisely from inspection services which in most cases carry out I will not say the will but the law interprets in its own way and is just returning to the problem because no one in the Republic of Croatia understands craftsmen as their business partner. The inspection services should primarily act preventively and then act repressively if it is established that the grounds for repression and punishment exist. A question has been raised here today that I trust with the State Inspectorate or Mr. Ranogajec, as our minister said, and has opted for the State Inspectorate. It's being asked and there's a question of why. Why not the president of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. Is it because of some personal disagreements, whether because of something happening between them or because he thinks that the Croatian Chamber of crafts has nothing to say to him. All MPs today received proposals from the Croatian Chamber of crafts and these proposals are extremely good. I would particularly highlight article 36, which decidedly states what and how the craftsman corresponds, i.e. personal property, which is the property of the company, which is the property of the craft. And this way I really appeal to the Ministry that until the second reading, this article, or the proposal of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, should be taken into account, in particular, that the article in which such things are spoken should be written if it should be written on two pages, but to be decided, to be clear, not to be unclear, and that at no time should we seek neither the opinion of the Constitutional Court nor compare anything with anything to know whether we should take the house or move it into the street to any craftsman or anyone in Croatia. It has become a practice for us to write laws, to adopt an emergency procedure not to discuss them, now we finally have a long, long chance of having one law in two readings. It would be very good and smart of all of us together to make the most of these readings and to have the ministry really bring the second reading in line with all the suggestions they received whether from the Croatian Chamber of crafts, whether from the representatives, whether from the clubs, whether from individuals, at the end of the public debate that was being led to make the law as soon as possible, as possible. I'm going back to this question that our minister trusts. You shouldn't trust anyone. He could just try to ask the Ministry of Finance to give him pictures, complaints from craftsmen, who are in a secondary administrative procedure and would be made very, very clear to him, and he would know exactly what and how to do and what is wrong in the system and what craftsmen and entrepreneurs have often pointed to for years but unfortunately no one listens to them. Additional activity and... The profession is not defined until the end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll get into a big, big problem. In principle, we can identify this with some simple d.o.o., but the situation will be much more complicated on the ground. There will be reports and very big issues will be raised, many people in complementary activities and secondary occupations unless they are precisely decided, as much as they can be, and avoid certain legal regulations and create additional activity and side-interests, and we will not have a system to follow them in orderly and spotably as we control craftsmen every day of their work. The Croatian Labour Party Club supports the adoption of this Act but on the condition that it really takes into account all that is now said, all the comments that are on the table, which are made and that this law is adopted in a way that is first clear and then enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40608	We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40609	Comrade Tyrelli... You have several questions that have talked about several problems that are very important regarding the Law on Croatian crafts and relations of the Croatian Chamber of crafts not only with the Ministry but with craftsmen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One important question that I was talking about earlier, in fact, and that you were having a problem with. And this is the question of how the Croatian Chamber of crafts treated craftsmen who had to close the crafts, how they were taken care of and their employees. We must not forget those people who were employed by those craftsmen. Did the Croatian Chamber of crafts really worry that these turns do not close, that these people, when they have to close down, can survive. Or she only cared about her status issues within the Croatian Chamber of crafts. One of the most important questions is what you asked why the Croatian Chamber of crafts has public authority. Public powers are also possible for mandatory membership. If there were no mandatory membership, it is certain that the public authorities of Croatia would not have a craft chamber. One of the most important questions is that it may sound banal and I think before that he spoke to his colleague Milinkovic about whether he would cut us in barbershops, so I'll have all the longer hair butchers or he'll cut us, I don't know, plumbers. Because you know very well that a 10 kuna turn shouldn't have anything. You should have, D.o.o., excuse me. [[/Intruder: d.o.o.]] They say, well, you won't, but the minister keeps insisting, so you don't go to the barbershop and ask if you have a master's exam. We've had so much confidence in the passing of these laws that have introduced chaos, that now we're really going to ask each time to show me a degree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40610	Thank you. Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40611	Yes, my colleague, there are many questions open, but I will only answer this question, whether the Croatian Chamber of crafts cared about it or whether the craftsmen who have stayed where they are and ultimately had nothing from the Croatian Chamber of crafts. No, she wasn't worried, and that's what worries the most, and it's exactly the kind of situation that we're having today that we're having this debate about whether in the chamber we need this kind of leadership or whether we need something else or what we need to do with the chamber. 74% of craftsmen don't use chamber services, so that's a data that's very worrying. On the other hand, we passed the Law on Agriculture, or the Law on the Agricultural Chamber, so the minister himself said it was against the constitution and that the chamber was not charged. Today we're arguing here between whether to enter the Chamber of crafts as a ministry, us as parliamentary representatives, or whether we should leave it alone so that the chamber can handle some things on its own. I personally feel that it is necessary to get into this and that we need to talk about it very much because of these things. Because what is most unfortunate, unless the craftsman pays the craftsman to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the craftsman has a contract with the Ministry of Finance because the Ministry of Finance collects that same contribution from the craftsman and if he does not pay him, and asks for confirmation of the settlement of his tax obligations, he cannot, if he is in charge of the chamber, receive any benefits he needs at that time on the basis of that confirmation. And it's terrifying, it's a sign that the chamber doesn't particulate with those craftsmen it lives on, the moment in which these craftsmen create, close or open turns or whatever the craftsman is experiencing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40612	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40613	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Tyrelli, I agree with most of your debate, especially in the part where you spoke about consumer protection and the need for expertise and in any case in that part. But anyway, it's mostly getting through, and in your debate about the Chamber of crafts, of course, I don't imagine I can be a spokeswoman. I said in that section that it certainly seriously disrupts the independence of the Chamber of crafts with the previous opinion of the minister on the statute, and then once again, it looks like what you're doing now, but if you don't, then something else will happen. But I was moved by something else on the line, this thinking of you in that financial section, in the financial part of the operation, and I don't think that's a lot of talking about it today. It's about the contribution, the chamber contribution. He will now be legally regulated, and in this amount I am not an advocate to be high, but I know that so far this contribution has been made in accordance with local needs because craftsmen have invested in their rooms, in education, we have here thank God in our Koprivnica-Kristevnica County crafts house built with a professional, open school, education etc. Of course, many have raised and loans, they have obligations, they have powers, they have obligations and now they will come, I fear, I doubt that some will come in trouble that they will not be able to carry out their obligations. The same particular problem is indicated because surely people had good intentions, they were also thinking about this professional part of education and everything. Now he'll get into a situation that he just won't, maybe he'll be forced into certain errands, etc. I think it's a problem to consider anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40614	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40615	My colleague Milinkovic, I fully agree with you that everything should be considered, but when you increase your craftsman's VAT from 23% to 25%, who cares whether he has or doesn't have to calm down? When we pass a law where we impose new fiscal or parafiscal givings on an entrepreneur or craftsman, does someone take care of what kind of strategy he has made for his or her own activity, what kind of craftsmanship and his means, and will that craftsman or entrepreneur have money to pay for everything that someone has now told him to pay? Therefore, I always advocate only one thing, that in Croatia we all play by the same rules, no matter how big or how small we are, and only in such a way can we come to a situation where we bring and bring smart solutions in such discussions. Because if we're going to start dividing in a way that's now the Chamber of crafts, so we can't, and now this is a craftsman or a citizen, and then we can, then it's not a good way to go, and I think we should be very, very careful here. And just for your information, I'm going to tell you that in Istria we have one craft chamber, a branch in one city that currently has 4 million and 200 thousand kuna on the gyro budget. So it's not the only one, it's the money, it's just the question of how they spend it and whether they're actually doing exactly what they're supposed to do for a craftsman, from education and beyond everything that's supposed to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40616	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40617	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli, any law would have to be clear, lively and enforceable. This law is not clear, it's not life and it won't be implemented like this. That's why there's a debate here, so that everything can be heard that could be improved. And you have indicated one very important thing, and that is the difference when the same activity is carried out within the crafts and within a limited liability society, that different treatments for the same activity. This means that there is a possibility of manipulation and transition from one form to another, and then the conditions are not the same. That's inadmissible. If someone to open a craftsman has to have a professional exam, so I'm asking why someone who's going to open a shop for a hairdresser would have to be a hairdresser. He can work in a twist for whoever he is. But if you'd open up the d.o.o. or, for example, had a catering facility as a craft must have all the conditions, all the professional exams, all the licenses. If he has a hotel, then the director can be with four grades of elementary school and no one's asking him what he's got. That's why the misunderstanding that it's even a crafts activity is missing in this law. It is not defined what is craft activity and what is the meaning of crafts. I will later unite this in an individual debate to indicate that it has strayed from the basic meaning of the crafts. We have created economic activity in all segments of society. That's not the point of a twist. That's why most of all we'll be helping craftsmen if we stop complicated them, just to leave them alone. We're going to help them more than we're making their lives so complicated, and we've complicated them enough times, and in fact, always the craftsmen pull out the thick end, and most of all, when they have to go into some kind of collaboration with the larger ones. And so much is now concerned about protecting the believers of the craftsmen, and do not worry about how to protect the craftsman as a believer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40618	Thank you. Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40619	Here's another one I'm really underlining, and now it's not just about this law of twisting. We face every day that our laws are unclear, that they are complicated, that they are unimplementable or difficult to implement, and that we would especially say dead as such when we begin to apply them in our reality. That's what we keep pointing at, but here we've just detected this problem that's a twist. So, we've now made an economic activity where we want to put it, we'd like it to be a craftsman and a legal person, so we might not want it to be the same, because the craft is a little easier to register, so we're counting on maybe citizens to find that little money to register the trade faster or in 15 days, so we have a new taxpayer. But if he registers a company, then it'll take him a little more days. And we keep doing some calculations, which is best for the budget, as much as we will at some point in the budget with some new tax entity or non-entity to get or lose. And the fundamental question of crafts and crafts is that we have neglected here. That's where I agree with you. So, we're just basically saying something about what a twist is, and then eventually there's a situation like this that turns out to be all unsaid just because of that first one sentence where we're not decided about what this law is talking about and what kind of problem it's dealing with.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40620	And Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40621	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, dear colleague Tyrelli. You mentioned something very interesting about this and many of the other discussions that we have here on whom we should trust. So, in the context of which the minister should trust, the State Inspectorate or the HOC, then of course there can be very, very broadly further elaborated. Of course I agree with, I think I understand the fundamental thought of your idea and the fundamental idea of yours, but somehow I report in the debate to draw attention to what we call Croatian institutions. So, the State Inspectorate is a state-run Croatian institution. We have certainly ruined the reputation of Croatian institutions in particular in political life, but in everyday life we have absolutely and definitely ruined the reputation of Croatian institutions. Few people today to Croatian institutions, from the Croatian Parliament, the Government, and here to the State Inspectorate believe, and I don't think that's good, and I think that here and above all, we must primarily work here to strengthen trust in Croatian institutions. Because if as citizens and we in the Parliament, then of course every other citizen does not have minimum confidence in Croatian institutions, the question of what will be left of the state, of course. And now here's a little joke at the end. As you mentioned hair salons and barbershops and whether we should ask for confirmation always, do those who work there have all the conditions to carry out this activity I don't think it's a bad idea given the experience of the past days and here in the Croatian Assembly of some of our colleagues and given their experience, I don't think it's such a bad idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40622	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40623	I thank you for the replica. My colleague Kosor, we should trust the Croatian institutions. But here's the situation is what it is and then the question is why we don't believe it. In these Croatian institutions and these Croatian institutions definitely make up people and what is the biggest problem and which is why trust in these institutions is always lost because of individuals, because of certain people who do certain things that are not spotless, fast and immediately sanctioned. And unfortunately that's how it goes, and people just don't believe anymore because they realize that again and there we are or we are different and that the same law isn't implemented, it's all the same way to everyone, and that's what brings us step by step right where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40624	We're continuing the club debate. Club of independent representatives of Jadranka Kosor and representatives of HGS and colleagues of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40625	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with your associates. I think we can be satisfied with the debate we've had so far. I believe that the individual will continue to be in such an atmosphere. I think he may also be a minister with his associates pleased, because it seems to me that we've discussed it so far, I believe it will continue to be very constructive. And like, here in the morning part of this debate, a fellow Shucker pointed out, there aren't really a lot of issues in this law, and that's a fact. Therefore, if the minister listens, and listens, for a time it was not, but it is much more important if he knows to hear, so if the ministry can hear all the remarks that have been made really in good faith here today and which it has instructed and the HOK I believe that ultimately this can be a good law and that it can first and foremost fulfill what it is proposed, which is that Croatian craftsmen live better, to be more successful, to survive and to be more. That the turns don't close. That seems to us, therefore, on behalf of the club I'm talking about the most important message right now. Yes, I travel every day here from Ravnica to the Croatian Parliament and that move, especially Maksimirska and Vlaška, and that was what my colleague Marić mentioned earlier, it is a daily picture in which literally from day to day the door or light behind the door is turned off. So these are empty windows glued to the paper and the famous twists and the long-term where we've been shopping through here for the past 10, 20 years have simply disappeared overnight. A lot of people I know personally without any particular indication. In my building, so right next door to the entrance to the building where I live, a classic family craft opened up a few months ago. So, people here hired their family members and it seemed like they were doing great, it was a nicely arranged place, it seemed like a model craftsman and literally overnight one day when I came back I just found that the inscriptions were coming off, that the furniture was moving out of those spaces. So it was the end. Why? Because that craftsman couldn't simply resist all those demands that stood before him, and I'm saying he seemed to be doing a good job. What's he talking about? So, and it seems to me today that there were fewer words in this debate, the concentration was on the very provisions of the law, but less on the circumstances in which the crafts today live and work in Croatia. So people said they just can't pay for electricity and gas anymore. I remind you that the price of electricity and gas has increased significantly, and this is such a twist that is very much relying on electricity and gas, renting space. And when you add it all up here, one twist went out and a few people were out of a job. So I also appeal that, in the final proposal of this law, the ministry really listens to constructive remarks which have been made in this debate and that this is indeed a law for the benefit of craftsmen and for the benefit of the Croatian craftsmanship. We're going in for literally a few days, and I think we can talk within hours of actually a few hours in the EU, and we need to take care of this benefit that we're bringing into the EU. Certainly some of ours, some Croatian crafts have actually become definitely part of the world heritage. I remind, for example, of the auctioneeres, all those crafts that work on making children's toys, but also many, many others that are unique and almost nowhere in the world. And that's certainly the ministry's obligation and that's the obligation of this law. So ensure that Croatian craftsmen survive. That is why the Government, in relation to craftsmen, and even through this law must be very sensitive, must literally walk on its toes because no government, nor this one, can force people to do trade, can force them to endure this difficult sometimes really demanding job, and it is in the interest of this and every other government to make the craftsman and craftsman in Croatia as much as possible. So it's absolutely on the good side of government and society in general. I therefore propose to take a further look at the comments of the HOC, and I particularly appeal to those provisions relating to the selection of leaders, i.e. the head of the HOC, first and foremost because this is how the choice is proposed in the law when you read the careful manipulation is not fully worked out, leaves a lot of gaps, a lot of issues, lots of open spaces where there is no answer. It's not a bad idea. It's a good idea. So that everyone concerned chooses and decides on their leader who represents them, who represents them and who, of course, is first in public but also according to the ministry or ministries in representing interest. However, the idea itself is not well worked out. And I think it's best to leave it to those who care about choosing what, how and who it wants. The worst, the best, the most transparent and in any way, I think that the idea of the election should really be left to the HOC. Although, of course, in the explanation that has come to us where the HOC opposes this bill, it is not in a good way in all segments to explain why this direct choice is not good where examples of the election of the President of the Republic, etc. However, here and in this explanation it does not explain in a consistent way, let's say that it recalls the president of the Republic of Croatia, and that is now completely irrelevant. It is therefore important in this debate to repeat once again the important fact that half of the activities in the Croatian craft are carried out by personal work and that family members are employed in the craft in a large number of cases. This is extremely important, and this law should be taken into account. What I would like to underline in a special way is Article 36. We've said more or less about it. My point is that he's this well-formed and this is not how he's proposed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it's not in accordance with Article 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that we are all equal before the law and, if voted in this form in the Croatian Parliament, any new constitutional suit will bring it down in the Constitutional Court. I don't think that would be good. Of course, we talked about equality of all subjects involved in the economic life of the Republic of Croatia, sometimes it is not a practice and is not until the end of it sometimes or possible. The State may, of course, always encourage a given category in a certain way, but when it comes to property and when it comes to this important property protection institute and the ability to charge through the enforcement of those who are damaged, then that State must take care of compliance with the Constitution and also compliance with other laws. And another minor remark or proposal related to Article 8 where it is said that the work in craftsmanship gives rise to the rights of the social security system, if those rights do not exist, or if they do not exercise it on another basis. I absolutely agree that this social security system is a very, very broad term and that the law needs to further and very precisely define that instead of the social security system to be a philosophy regarding work relations. Here, Mr. Minister, so I think once again in the conclusion that there really isn't a lot of important objections to this law, there aren't a lot of open questions. Of course, depending on whether we are in a position or whether we are in power or when we talk about politicians or we are in opposition, then we will talk in different ways about both the impositions and the parafiscal burdens on all the economics, craftsmen, etc., but I think that the common intensities should be done to make it as small as possible, that they are not burdensome but that they are the obligations that craftsmen must fulfil towards the state. So if you read again the bill of proposals and remarks that you heard in this debate and, of course, the proposals and remarks and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce with which the ministry is not and cannot be in any conflict or war but that they must be the first associates, then I believe that this will ultimately be a good bill of law. At this stage in the first reading, I therefore commend once again what goes into two readings because we are overwhelmed by the avalanche of laws that go according to emergency procedures, and this is a good example because this is a public debate, and what else but a public debate, so at this stage we will be restrained. And if you respect these fundamental remarks that can enable this to really be an enforceable law, which is in your best interests, then we will ultimately support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40626	Thank you very much. Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40627	Thank you. You spoke to the MPs when you took a ride to see the locals die in Maksimirska, they die in Vlaska. Well, yes, they also die in Ilica, they die more or less in the city center, and I actually think it's more or less clear to all of us that it's not the consequence of the Law of Turn, but that it's the result of the construction of these major malls by the edges of the cities. These little bars are dying around most of the cities in Croatia. So it's a phenomenon that actually neither the state was happy when they were building these shopping centers is coming or like an investment. The local community is happy to see a communal fee coming and he is in a loss that follows on the death of the city's centres, neither the state nor the local community accounted for anything. And as the center of Zagreb dies today but the center of Sibenik dies, it dies slowly and the center of Požega where I live. Most of these centres simply disappear, but neither local communities nor the state find an answer to how to solve it or there is therefore no cost of benefit from any of these investments, so to speak. who at the time of those conjunctures as large investments were actually the grotesque of that 7, 8, 9. were actually making investments in these shopping centres. Or as it is now with our strongest investment as the IKEA site currently does not have a single estimate of how many jobs it really is, and how many jobs it's going to be, how many jobs it's going to be, how many jobs it's going to be, how many jobs it's going to be, how many jobs it's going to be, how many jobs it's going to be, how many jobs it's going to be, how much it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how our strongest. And when we draw the line on how we're going to go out like the Republic of Croatia and with our interests with that so-called. An investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40628	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40629	Of course, I only mentioned 2, 3 streets I pass every day, but as you travel, I travel to Croatia. It's a picture everywhere. And what is symptomatic is a picture especially visible, it is especially visible in a big city like Zagreb. Exactly we overcrowded, re-builded shopping centers, it was a hit at one point, now unfortunately many of them are half empty. But all this is closing the crafts and shopping centers are not just, so closing is not only, closing did not just precede, or cause is not opening a shopping centre. Because, for example, at the mall not once, at least I don't know you can't buy bidding hearts. So, the product of medics and lycitans and yet you turn it off. General, general climate... I have cited some of the reasons that I personally know about, therefore, the increase in prices and electricity and gas and the general unfavourable conditions for the economy, of course, are very much affecting both survival or decline of the crafts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40630	And on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40631	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the number of co-workers the minister has taken to Parliament today, and we see that the ministry is serious about solving the problems of Croatian craftsmen and craftsmen. And that's a good phenomenon for the HDSSB Club. What has been raised since morning, has long been discussed, more or less the same problems are being opened, it is not good for us in this way that this bill, i.e. first reading of the law, comes to the Assembly with numerous criticisms and remarks that we have all received in writing, not today but for months already by the Croatian Chamber of crafts. I think it would be much better and much fairer if in this open time until this bill came to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, together with the ministry, could not agree on some key issues. Because Croatian craftsmen were first given the name of the ministry, the ministry of crafts, the ministry that should take care of their problems and these kind of problems that are in this time that we are living for which we see that it is not good. So it is logical that we representatives and club representatives and all who have received materials on our offices or here on the table of the Croatian Parliament have read and commented on these criticisms of the Croatian Chamber of crafts on this first reading of the law. What we think would be good and smart, and that is that all these criticisms are taken seriously because for us should not be a problem that we should trust here in the Croatian Parliament whether a statement by the Minister when it comes to what the Croatian Chamber of crafts has delivered to representatives or to the State Inspectorate, to believe in certain clubs of MPs. I think we should first and foremost address the problem of Croatian craftsmen and Croatian craftsmen and these personal... We need to leave that out of the way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have also witnessed that we have received apart from these opinions of the Croatian Chamber of crafts on the proposal of the law and some anonymous or signed application against the current leadership of the Croatian Chamber of crafts so that it is poor and a little bit and stupid that this serious problem comes down to some kind of planting of any regional organizations of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, anyone or anyone to whom a person acting in office either in the ministry, whether in the crafts chamber bothers. I think the common goal of our representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the ministry should be to pass a transparent, modern law, a law that will primarily serve Croatian craftsmen because it is the craftsmen who will need to continue working in Croatia, in all Croatian cities. So we believe that these personal matters should be put outside the context of the debate on this law. What is important for us is that craftsmen have less costs before the opening of the craftsmanship, that the legal proposals in that part and parafiscal burdens allow for the better entry of craftsmen into craftsmanship and therefore this situation that we have today is improving, it is unfortunately such that it depends on the overall state of the economy in Croatia and on the state of the Croatian budget and in all other problems that are tied up and... The debate cannot go beyond the problem of what hit Croatian craftsmanship, we have seen in previous discussions that more than 50,000 craftsmen closed their crafts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not just in the part of whether the law that's been good or not has been good so far, whether those six amendments and the addition of the law have been helpful. It is an indicative state which unfortunately has been in Croatia for a long time. It's a recession and a state of economy that must have an impact on this. We are not at the HDSSB Club, therefore against the opening of some large shopping malls or shopping centres in the city's surroundings because these same centres have also hired citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to open jobs. And some of them are craftsmen, and this is the case of my city of Osijek, from the center of Osijek, have moved to new malls that have brought together a large number of crafts and small and larger shops. They simply moved from downtown to these malls. So we don't need to be against each other, but we need to be for everything that's going to open new jobs, which, in any form, will help hire people, either here in craftsmanship, or in these other professions that are related to craftsmanship. What's right under this bill. It is prescribed that those properties that are necessary for housing and to meet the personal life needs of craftsmen and persons who are legally obliged to abstain do not question the performance. And what is crucial is a few of the key issues that have been raised in this bill is, therefore, what is the decision, and the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2010; therefore, it is necessary to assess well until the second reading of the law which is the property that the craftsman makes in his craftsman's business, is this therefore the property that serves only to carry out business or entire property. We believe that this issue should therefore be resolved on the basis of the second reading of the law so that crafts and crafts are aligned with all other entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. As far as the proposal is concerned, i.e. the ministry's intention in this bill to propose it directly, so the selection of the president of the craft chamber and the president of the branch offices of the craft chambers now raises a number of other issues. We are therefore not against the direct choice of anyone in the Republic of Croatia because we may consider this a fairer and fairer way of choosing. But what leaves the issue open here is that, according to the bill, it is definitely not well worked out, the way it first opens up the first problem of discrimination between the people who want to participate in the election for the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so at this national level, because at the same time elections are being held for both the president of the national chamber and the presidents of the regional chambers. So let's say the presidents of the area, 20 of the presidents of the regional chambers cannot compete at the same time for the president of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. For us it would be fairer then if it were already to go into this direct choice, if this is the definition of the Ministry's intention to keep it this way and in the second reading of the law, that things should be distinguished, that all persons who want to come from other parts of the Republic of Croatia and the presidents are therefore the branches of the Chamber of Commerce, that they have the opportunity to compete for the President of the Chamber of crafts. What are these costs, as far as it is possible to implement it in the way this bill plans, we are not sure, so we think that the current way of choosing when it went in the way of congregation elections did not have any shortcomings, and although this may be better needed in more detail and perhaps in a different way to the second reading of the law, if it remains to go to a direct choice. In my opinion and in our view, we shouldn't be legally involved in this kind of independence of the craftsman's chamber. If the chamber is independent in its work, then in this way I don't know how well it's constitutionally founded, so it's said that something has to be directly chosen, if it's worked so far... we can see that there were no major problems with this kind of choice. What is a bit of a concern, which is that about deciding on this chamber contribution, whether it should be mandatory or voluntary, of course if we look at the situation of economic and financial in the Republic of Croatia, then we would definitely all say that it should be voluntary, that those craftsmen who want to enroll in the chamber do so if it is in their interest, if they will use the services of the chamber and if it will lead to a better position of craftsmen. What is therefore opening up on the other side as a problem is the very way of functioning of both the Chamber of crafts and all others and the Chamber of Commerce and other chambers in the Republic of Croatia, whether it will be possible to shut down the chambers at all because we saw in the Agricultural Chamber that when the contribution was lifted that more than 220 and 230 thousand people did not choose a voluntary way of depositing in the chamber, so there will simply be a collapse of chambers. The chamber to which public powers have been transferred to us by the State should be operational and should have a way of functioning, that, in this financial framework, if it really helps a craftsman and if craftsmen will use these services and if it will have a purpose and purpose, then that contribution which we see is also a number of other investments in both the purchase of business buildings and infrastructures and therefore the training and education of craftsmen financed from that contribution. These are large and numerous financial resources, which should be assessed whether it is necessary to remain on this mandatory contribution and whether it is the interest of a craftsman or not, and I think that there should be, above all, the voice of the craftsmen and the people themselves who are directly in that craft, and not of some philosophical theory that, in the end, if the chamber is shut down, it will certainly not be good and favourable for craftsmen. It is therefore alarming that such a large percentage of people do not use the service of the chamber, and according to the law of the chamber, defines what services and the tasks of the chamber, which are the public authorities of the chamber when it comes to helping craftsmen, and that is now something which is put on the burden of the Croatian crafts chamber to make it better in the time ahead, and based on this law, we believe that it will be possible for craftsmen to actually use Croatian craftsmen’s services to full extent and that in any case they benefit from the contributions paid to the chamber. There is an open question of this social security, and we advocate that if the craftsman comes into problems to allow him a certain fee, if there is financial difficulties that he cannot pay certain contributions that only membership in the chamber and therefore the contribution he pays must have this social moment, and not that the Croatian Chamber of crafts or society in general or the regional chamber does not care what happens to the craftsman and his family, given everything invested in the crafts to be found on the street, that there is no benefit from the chamber in such a way that he paid the entire time to the same chamber. What is therefore left open to the second reading, and it is good that this is the first reading, for several months the debate was held on this and what I said was that so many of the shortcomings that came and the comments that we received as representatives, which we can and do not have to accept from the Croatian Chamber of crafts, I think it would be better to resolve at the level of the Minister and Ministry, so when this first reading came to the Parliament that there were fewer of these disagreements and issues that we in some things really can agree on when it comes to the property of a craftsman, when it comes to that master's test, when it comes to the previous opinions given by the Chamber of craftsmen, so what the craftsman's chamber in its comments on some articles of the law suggests, we should certainly consider it until the second reading, and that there should be found common interest, first of all these other matters of crafts, and therefore in certain situations should be left on one side. I consider it a good intention for both the Ministry and the Chamber to primarily assist craftsmen, craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia, and we see that this economic picture of the situation in which the craftsmanship is presently not good. So together, without putting aside any side we have to trust as advocates, we need to listen to all those who come with concrete problems and concrete solutions to the bill's proposals. We are here to represent, above all, all the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all the associations and all the chambers and all those who ask for help from the club representatives so that the final text of the law will be best for those who need to use this law, and these are Croatian craftsmen. So we suggest that until the second reading of the law all open questions, all those problems that have come before us come into the final text of the law and that in the last reading we be, therefore all of us agree on it and the Ministry and the Chamber and MPs from the Parliament, above all the craftsmen who will need to use this law in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40632	Thank you, too. We've registered three replicas. First Branko Vuksic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40633	Dear counterpart Salapic, you also spoke about the Croatian Chamber of crafts. I think it should be said that there would be no wood and stones on the Croatian craft chamber. You should ask yourself, would it be better or worse without the Croatian Chamber of crafts? Normally, we can't give an answer, but certainly it would be bad for me, because the Croatian craftsman's chamber articulates the problems of Croatian craftsmen whether she was at all times to help all Croatian craftsmen. Some MPs felt that it was not. You're only in the beginning a little dyspression, so think seriously there's a lot of them. We hope that it was also a year-long slogan of the election that Mr. Vinkovic well knows "We are serious". I hope the minister is serious and he will respect all these remarks we speak here in the Parliament. And you have asked a question that has been raised in several debates that you trust - the minister, the inspector, the institutions, the Ranogajite. You know that Croatian citizens have the least confidence in institutions. You know that in all the polls. You need to believe the practice. Practice speaks enough about institutions not doing their job. The practice speaks enough of how the craftsmen acted in poor conditions, that the institutions did not help them when they needed it, that the HOC did not help them when they needed help. The craftsmen did not, unfortunately, rebel. And why didn't they rebel? Because they believed in these institutions. Now they're less and less believed because they've stayed on the street, 50,000 turns closed and many more jobs. Trade chains, you said the same thing about trade chains. They, I agree with you on their own, are not bad. Bad practice is stimulating imports and destimulating exports. That's bad at everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40634	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40635	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, I agree completely with what you said and you listened very carefully. This problem is not only in this Law of craftsmanship but in a whole series of laws that create a positive economic environment. The ministry will not do anything unless the Ministry of Economy and other ministries provide conditions for, therefore, the law based on the functioning of entrepreneurship, craftsmanship and all those who, therefore, want to start a business in Croatia. We agree here that all those who are opening new jobs be it craftsmen, whether it is large entrepreneurs, whether it is a shopping mall that should be supported because it is a new salary in the family in Croatia that is increasingly difficult to live. When I told you who to trust, I said that you should believe, so first of all, the craftsmen because they're the ones who are in trouble. And as for the Croatian Chamber of crafts, I got the impression of talking to the leadership and asking about these comments of the law, that it is not good for me to have any lobby within and the Ministry and the Chamber created against anyone, because these lobbies then destroy the real interests of craftsmen. We are witnessing that after we received this text of the commentary of the law that we also received some number of anonymous performances on the work of the President of the Chamber of craftsmen and that there is something inside of him that stinks and in fact no one solves the real problem, which is the problem of craftsmen. So someone, that no one should be sided but sided with a craftsman but believed that if this law really lived in the light of how it was proposed to really serve in the interest of Croatian craftsmen and craftsmen. If that's not the case, then we didn't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40636	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Salapic, you mentioned the Constitutional Court's decision. So the Constitutional Court's decision is about to follow up on what we want to warn today all this time of debate, and that's that this law unfortunately doesn't define the property of craftsmen either. And it is different from that provision that can be carried out, so in the event of a claim against companies. And what we've been telling the minister all along is that the law clearly defines a team more than we really pretend to know as if nothing exists. So according to the Income Tax Act, you are clearly defined that the craft must have a list of the basic assets on which the depreciation is calculated. In the end, and with the basis of the purchase of that property, he actually fell on the return of value added tax. So it's not that something doesn't exist, it's just that there's a clear law that we need to define that it is. And when I talk about the crafts chamber, we're ignoring some of the things that happened over the years. In recent years, many craftsmen have transferred some of their activity to limited liability societies. You now have a parallel owner of crafts and he or he or his children are owners of a limited liability society and practically deals with the same activity. And the power of craft chambers has fallen and financial, if you will and as far as reputation goes, because many prominent craftsmen have gone into a limited-responsibility society and are no longer members of the Chamber of craftsmen. But what bothers me personally is that the government, and even the Parliament, is conducting to someone how it will be organised. Well, that's the same story that, the government has passed a law on financing political parties, on financing political parties, and that the government is now and let's say the minister of the administration dictates that a particular political party will function. No, we've passed a framework law, and the party has to function within that framework law. 'Cause I don't see why I'm fused. I agree, Mr. Maras, let's go see if the craftsmen decide that the Chamber doesn't want to be members of the Chamber so they can make a decision about it. Why would they make a decision about that? After all, they team up, not parliamentary representatives in the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40638	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40639	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I agree with you that they are joining together so that we should not enter the law into these matters of independence of association in any chamber, as well as in this. Apparently, there were some conflicts between the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry, and then in that part of the bill's draft, it went with this measure to try to make order and make some kind of cleanup. Because to me, if it's a direct choice, I've already told you it's not good to limit anyone to run for president? Because then why the direct election of presidents if the presidents of the branch chambers can't get involved in that campaign to elect presidents. That's not good, and I'm saying that I think it's some lobbies that shouldn't be in this law, and what you said in the first part about the Constitutional Court's decision if there is a decision, if the legal framework allows us to define firmly and clearly what property it is that will enter into that crafty business, then in this bill, we need to do it because we're only going to lead to another constitutional lawsuit, another decision that is going to be the same, similar to the one that was made in the first case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40640	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40641	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Salapic, I think that's where you touched one deeper perhaps question, the issue of the chamber system in general. So, you mentioned the Chamber of Agriculture, so I would like to look back on it, we had three chambers in Croatia, so the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. If we're talking about the chamber system then we have to say that the chamber system is mandatory. So there's no choice whether I want to be a member or not. You have identified good questions, i.e. why the members of the chamber do not use certain chamber services. I wouldn't believe it if they hadn't been notified of it, first of all, that craftsmen must therefore have the law telling them to have more contact with the chamber than passing master's exams, getting crafts, etc. So everyone with contact with the chamber doesn't use the rights they have, but they have to pay a contribution. On the other hand, the chamber service provides them with certain things that especially small craftsmen could never finance. Let's say they perform together at fairs and things like that, that there's some kind of active help for the chamber in one hand and there is. But this is a broader question, so the wider question to me is whether the chamber system in the economy, so if we're talking about HGK and the HOK, if we need to make it mandatory or whether it's going to be voluntary, because I'm afraid that if we introduce it, it means volunteering for the system to happen just like with the Agricultural Chamber, that is, most craftsmen wouldn't want to be members of the Chamber because it's a parafiscal charge to them. Like... these memberships in HGK. Therefore, it may be the subject of a broader and deeper debate in general about the chamber system in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40642	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40643	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Hajdukovic, that is true, but whether or not the chamber contribution will be mandatory, the Croatian Parliament can decide whether it is voluntary or compulsory. The question is, is this volunteering leads to the chamber shutting down then because in this situation where craftsmen and entrepreneurs work, these small craftsmen will certainly be determined not to pay because they do not have enough funds and it will choke the real meaning and the law and this chamber association in Croatia that exists we have seen for 160 years, which is that they have some benefit from that chamber must have. Now why is it so bad that it is such a large number of people and what are the mechanisms and means that this law can fix about it we need to talk about it now at this debate today and until the final reading because we need to do something that the chamber has a purpose and purpose. I personally am not against the abolition of the chamber contribution, but I am in favour of the fact that the craftsmen of this chamber contribution are really benefiting from it, that it serves them in further progress in helping them, but also in this social moment that we have discussed, therefore, that the craftsman and through this kind of contribution if he finds himself in trouble to create such a legal framework that, on the basis of this contribution that he has been paying him for years because we have heard someone for 15 years was a craftsman, 20, so he had to put out the craftsman, that there is a social moment for such people to be helped in such a transitional period and this chamber contribution, and that he continues to invest that craftsmanship, therefore, with his tradition, has his own future in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40644	Thank you. Minister Gordan Maras called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here it is. I called for a debate after the clubs. I have to apologize in advance. I can't stay for individual debates right now, but my deputy will stay until the end. Here's my colleague Maric just told me this is one of the more constructive discussions that could be heard recently, a lot of quality proposals. More or less representatives' clubs are apart from HDZ I don't know now what HDSSB's position is whether it supports this bill, so they support everyone except HDZ, which makes me particularly happy. I hope that by the end of the debate, the HDZ will change its position so that maybe we can have unison support if it's so little I'd say "resistance" so that by the second reading, everything can be done to make the law even better. But in advance, I have to tell you that I'm not going to be able to appreciate some of the things that are like objections here highlighted because I haven't spoken to you since yesterday, and with these objections to the HOC that you're all familiar with, we haven't spoken to since yesterday. So I've done the same thing, and we've brought a certain attitude. I'm aware that some things can still be done, but I don't have the ambition to suggest anything from someone to be accepted. It's just not possible. Then de facto you could ask someone else to write the law. What I believe in will eventually be in the second reading and I am convinced the government will accept and suggest. And I believe it will be good for our craftsmen. What I'm just trying to say is, here's before the individual debate, as far as meddling is concerned, I'm going to repeat it a hundred times, there's no interference within the organization and within the election. How all must be members so everyone can choose. You understand? I mean, it's a fundamental right and I can't possibly pull a parallel with the parties. So it has nothing to do with each other. It's an organization where by default you become a member of the organization. Like when you're born in the Republic of Croatia, you become a Croatian citizen. That's right. So they have the right for people to choose and I don't see why they'd limit them to it. As far as candidateing is concerned, I see that it is not very well understood, Mrs Kosor and Mr of HDSSB Salapic said this is about choosing on the same day, but no one prevents a person from running for both places. What's the problem? So if he is elected president of the HOK, he will be president of the HOK, and there will be re-elections for the president of the regional craft chamber within a period prescribed again by the Statute of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. So I certainly won't prescribe it, so there's no limit to the best people running. Let anyone who wants run run and run the best and choose. I think that's a good solution in the end. As for who uses who does not use, since for some things you have to use the HOK services, for example, we said master exams and then 74% or 73% of people tell me that it never used it because for all the related crafts you don't have to have certain qualifications then you can think that these master exams don't have how many people would use the HOK services. So the point is, and it's my logic, so if we're paying something, we need to see why and how much we pay. And I'm glad that colleague Lovrin pointed out that it's good to report that it's seen how far I haven't been present, but they passed it on to me, if it's true that you're satisfied that there will be a report at the Parliament that will be seen who, in what way, is used in some way public money. Because I meet with a lot of other countries and there's someone calling for practice. If I look at the practice of a lot of countries even more countries have optional membership in chambers than mandatory membership, and then here I spoke several months ago with representatives of the British Chamber of Association, there are several such associations that have hundreds of thousands of members where people want and participate and know clearly what they will get for what they pay. Of course it takes some time to develop such a system in our country, but I am convinced that in the future it will work that way and that we will also have a voluntary membership, although I say, given the debate today, I see that in the Croatian Parliament there is an opinion that people should be given the opportunity to decide whether they want to be members of the chamber or not, and we will consider it well until the second reading, especially in relation to the fact that you must also follow these changes of services offered through the law that can not be asked for, and that there is no safe income but some balance will have to be found here all together. As far as income is concerned, they're not small. My colleague Horvat said on behalf of the SDSS that it was 18 million kuna. No, it's 130 million kuna a year, so it's big money. The chamber system has over 350 employees, so my ministry has 90 employees, the craft chamber has 350 employees. So we know what we're talking about, 40% of the money goes to pay only, so now I'm not talking about other expenses to compensation. I wasn't even aware of it once, but when a meeting is held, a man has the right to compensation 300 kuna for getting out of that profit he hasn't done in his craft. So only in HOK in 2 years is 6 million fees paid. It would be something to talk about, but I didn't want that debate because we're going to have this kind of debate and I want people to see why they're paying for it. You can't get on the internal pages of any association or HOC, the distribution of costs as spent, you just get a report that he adopted a monitoring board, at least I didn't find on the websites, and I was interested because I'm also interested in the public. What is my desire to be more transparent, to know exactly how much money is paid for, after all, we have a discharge of craftsmen since we will limit the amount to be all in the same position and ultimately have one more quality law, and I say until the second reading we can think about some more changes. This seems interesting. And when we talk about the issue of a craftsman, it's not the craftsman's chamber. It's the administration's office. It's the department's jurisdiction to issue a craftsman when someone opens a craft. As far as craft activity is concerned, just say once again, there is no possibility of defining in Croatia and it is not so defined that only certain activities can be performed as crafts. You can do most of your activities as a craftsman. So it's not just that the hairdresser is a craftsman, and it can't be d.o.o. There's also a d.o.o. that deals with hairdressing services. There are also catering services I said how many 30 thousand, 12 thousand d.o.o., 18 thousand craftsmen means it's not an activity it's a way of doing economic activity and we need to take care of it, it's a nuclearus, something small, microbusiness, a family business call it whatever you want, and in this direction we'll also go. I said which way we're going to change our family's help because I think it's very important. I think it'll be particularly interesting for craftsmen because they don't have hundreds of employees. There are 1, 2 employees and family assistance is something that is necessary and that we will work on. As for secondary activities and lists, I think I have a list here but it was previously possible in accordance with, please let me just read to see what activities have been defined as secondary activities. You didn't have anything, so there was a question of the meaning of that list, 36 activities, and now, for example, you have inside making shades of dolls just not with a human character, picking mushrooms, so that's something that's lifeless. Based on this list that applied to the previous law we had, I don't know if we had anyone at all, maybe a few dozen people who registered for secondary activity. We want to do something that's lifelike, we want to either say textile production from natural fibres in a traditional way. Now let someone explain to me what a traditional way it is then I will say that such a list as the former Minister of Economy, although not Mr. Popiac, but before him, the late Minister Vukelic brought that he is alive. I don't want to have regulations that in practice don't help me, they don't mean anything, and nobody's using them. We want people to know what they can do and do as simple as possible. It's the intensity of the law. By the second reading, we'll really analyze everything you suggested. But I'm still saying, I don't have the ambition to give someone my own proposal if I don't think it's feasible, if I consult within the government, I'll be able to accept everything. Thank you for the debate. Once again, I will be replaced by my deputy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40646	Thank you, Minister. He's reported one eight replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40647	Well, here's a traditional way... They said shockingly, now that I don't explain the technology and technique of it, but it's a traditional way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But about the choice, so we said we had nothing against direct choices, but I just think the law has to define the way, the way of this kind of choice so it wouldn't be exactly like that experiment in the Croatian agricultural chamber where you had the choice that went, I don't know the letters, I don't know what you're conducting from politics to say so. And while there was a mandatory membership in the Croatian agricultural chamber, that chamber was working. The law adopted on the agricultural chamber has abolished mandatory membership, so you could pay voluntarily and practically now the Croatian agricultural chamber that should be a chamber for all farmers is practically not working. We were two, three times in China as a chamber, not me, but members of the chamber, president of the chamber, and that's it. No more money. I feel the same way, and that's the question my colleague has raised. So we need to define and open a wider debate not only on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce but also on other chambers. And there aren't only three of them. There's a lot more of them. And especially the question of membership. But here is also the fact that you are going to adapt the education system itself to the European Union, the Law on the Market, or to the jobs sought on the labour market. And that way, first of all, we can get out of the crisis. Normal fiscal decentralisation, etc. And especially pay attention to the minister's particular property that enters the craft and which, by having a craftsman practically guarantees for the success of his craft.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40648	Thanks, buddy. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40649	We'll do one more thing probably about the election, given when you define direct elections that way, then there's got to be some kind of census in running. Because there's a possibility that the statute will determine that only with the support of 20 district crafts chambers will you be a candidate for president. Well, then, everybody picks. Of course, when you go to a direct choice, there must be a censorship of how many signatures you have to collect a craftsman to run for office so that later you don't have this system as you said people are getting along rather than all have the same chance. As for property, I am convinced that this is how we have protected the vast majority of craftsmen and the vast majority of their assets. The problem of sharing property is I would say and in the talks in the government that we discussed a lot in the first wave I thought it was possible to do but then with colleagues from the judiciary I came up with that it was impossible to share the property of a natural person. So it's something almost in practice that doesn't work anywhere. I like it when someone calls to foreign practice but it is, in most, the vast majority of countries is related to a natural person and property indivisible. So that's, that's something we gave up on that principle for, but we wanted to further protect people from doing their houses and not doing their workshops. I think that's enough protection. Because after all, people have the essential security they need to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40650	Thank you. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40651	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, when you named me as well as somehow interpreting my words that I agree with the fact that I should file reports, that I agree that everyone's clear action must be transparent and that this is about Croatian craftsmen's money but that they actually have to pay mandatory because their obligation is imposed on them ex-legis. But it would be fair to mention the amount of 130 million kuna that passes through the craft chamber, and you know that people are very, very sensitive, it is huge money, then it would be fair to mention at the same time that this Croatian craftsman has 20 tasks under the law. Half of these tasks are public powers, so something the state transferred to the craft chamber to work for it. Well, that's worth something. When you say there's so much to pay. So who are these interrogators, who organizes various qualifications based on competences, building a system of education, establishing a quality assurance system, that costs. That's what some people of course have to do, that they have to do. And these exams are also held together, which would have been if it hadn't been for this kind of craft chamber and had not been given that authority by the Ministry. And probably the budget ministry would also have expenses. And more employees than there are now. You say you're 90, you'd have more if you were doing these jobs. But you're organized by law like this. One more thing Minister, and I will speak of responsibility in my debate, I'm sorry that you won't be there, but another thing you mentioned, and that's master's exams, qualifications, etc., please answer me why in the program, I asked myself, I didn't get an answer in the program about professional training for sub-coverers, pizza masters, bakers, why they need to know all about land books, about commercial societies in the general section, about the composition of land books, about d.o.o. and about their bankruptcy. So, what's it for? [[Intruder: Time fellow, understood Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40652	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40653	Maybe we shouldn't have a master's test for it at all, maybe we shouldn't have a master's exam for it. .../The intruder can't be heard. And I'm telling you right now, public powers that are not by the way defined by law this is defined in the law of what the chamber does. It's not public authority. It's what she does. Public powers are something that works on behalf of the state and is recognised by the state. If you ask me what public authorities are, public authorities are assistant exams and master exams, two things. Organizing an education system is something I would say inexplicable, so it can't be materialized and it's not an obligation in any way and not doing all the chambers the same way. Some don't have any education systems inside of them, nor do they have computer workshops. Some of them come to me for a competition, so they get equipment, etc., but it's not public authority. Public powers are only two: an assistant exam and a master's exam. The master's exam also for those professions for which we have prescribed which qualification is also required by the assistant exam which is passed after the completion of the vocational school as part of the practical course. Otherwise the same in the public debate and in the preparation of the law was the proposal that the assistant exam should not be done in this way but that the vocational school organises also I would say the exam which will be recognised as an auxiliary exam and that the vocational school verifys the knowledge practically obtained by the scientist during the training. There were also proposals for vocational schools and the Professional Education Agency to take over and contacts and connect between craftsmen and commissions. So that's true, you're right, there are some expenses and some fees for election commissions, committees of inquiry, etc. So there is a possibility of taking over the education system within the Agency for Professional Education and Professional Schools. It's one of the options, but this is all you've read that's not public authority, public powers are just two.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40654	Thank you, Minister. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40655	Dear Ministers, in your presentation you said one sentence, several countries have optional membership, several European Union countries or in Europe. Then why don't you respect the practice of those who cut the grass longer and certainly that they've passed what you're going to experiment on means with the election. You said if this election was only 15 percent, or I don't know how much percentage you said craftsman, then you'd know that mandatory membership doesn't drink water. It is absolutely certain that mandatory membership also kills the HOC, the Croatian Chamber of crafts because the security of the money flow is killing creativity, workability. I think you mentioned the example of Britain, that their craft chambers have a lot of money, and it's not necessarily membership. So why don't you tell the Croatian Chamber of crafts that you can have membership, that is, some kind of membership fee, as much as you want, don't limit it, if you reach an agreement with the craftsmen, but we're going to go to safety, now we're going to experiment for a few years and see if it brings any results or won't bring results, and you're saying that most of the countries in Europe have that way. Here I stand, but not just the Croatian Chamber of crafts, here we discussed in the Chamber and the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, then it is said that there is no point in being mandatory in agriculture, and why it makes sense to have the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, why not prescribe to all chambers that have the same conditions and choices and membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40656	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40657	All right, let's hear some suggestions in the debate in Parliament that we can analyse... Which is why we suggested this, because of what we see in this part of it, I said which, two public powers, the benefits that take place through that system. We only want to have certain standards and further relieve I would say Croatian craftsmen. I leave the possibility that by the second round of reading, that is, until the second reading, we will see how we will put all these expensive things together. I just wanted to say one more thing, otherwise for master's exams it's public authority and not only is public authority but it's also charged, so the master's exam costs something. Out of 130 million kunas, approximately as much as it enters through the crafts chamber system of contributions is something below 100 million kuna, and the difference goes to donations, etc., a significant source of income is also the master exams that thousands of thousands are made annually. If you estimate that there are 2,500 master exams somewhere, then you know how much income there is. So that's how we make it possible for the chamber to even make some money and come in. If you have to have a master's exam for something, you can only take them with her. So these public powers can also be an additional source of income. And what some countries have, and we don't have, some countries have a much longer tradition, I don't mean now 160 years of tradition of the Chamber of crafts, but democracy and everything called social order, so we can't exactly paint things in Croatia as if it were equal to some other countries, but I am convinced that we will come up with the most qualitative solution in the next reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40658	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it is very interesting that you, with this provision on the reporting of the Croatian Parliament and the financial and business chamber, will again be put in a position for someone to file a constitutional suit. You have a Croatian Chamber of Commerce, you have a lawyer's office, you have a doctor who function exactly the same principle, so mandatory, even many in this doctor's section can't perform certain activities if they don't get the opinion of the chamber. Now one has to, the other doesn't have to, and now let's ask one hypothetical question: What happens if all the bodies of the Chamber of Commerce adopt a report on work and a financial report? But for one reason or another, let's say the government doesn't adopt it and give the Government a proposal that the Parliament does not give a positive opinion on the financial business of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. What happens then? Is that when the President of the Chamber of crafts is replaced? If then the President of the Chamber of crafts is replaced, then be assured after the adoption of this law, never one ministry ever again, and no parliamentary representative will receive such a letter from the Chamber of Commerce because simply no one will dare make it. If you already want the Parliament to receive some information then it would be logical for all these chambers to oversee the State Audit and in some report that the State Audit will submit to the Croatian Parliament in its work, among other things, to have some cumulative report on that they have carried out an audit of the business of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and that the situation is there and such. Because look, I'm just asking you one question. What if, for example, the Government's proposal to adopt that report is not adopted? What's the next step? Which institution, and they are controlled by the IRS in some sort of regular controls. So I just don't see what you want with this except to end the simple independence of the craft chamber. Why do you insist on not insisting on it with others and automatically falling in the Constitutional Court for the reasons that you are not equally treating organisations that are organised in the same way and financed in the same way?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40660	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40661	It's not true that they're organized in the same way, they're not funded in the same way. Since the Chamber of Commerce is organised under special law, the Law of crafts, and that the Chamber of Commerce has a special law called the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce No, no. [[Intruder: I finance in the same way.]] So it's not true. ... That's not true. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So they're special laws and special provisions. It is as if you were telling me that someone could file a constitutional suit for what, for example, the Croatian Olympic Committee submits a report to the Croatian Assembly which is also financed from... Look, it's funded by public money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It is known exactly what money is intended for the Olympic Committee and is not chosen by the Parliament, by the government, or by anyone, subject to the Association Act as an organization, the same as the Chamber of Commerce. It's subject to review. Well, the audit can go to the craftsman's chamber. There can be an audit, there's no obstacle as she went to the Chamber of Commerce. I don't know if you followed it when it was in the media. So, just like the audit went into the economics, it could go to the Chamber of Commerce. Here is the intensity that Croatian craftsmen, those who work there and members of the family, means half a million people to discuss the trade once a year and to see what the situation is about and what services and what services and what the Chamber of craftsmen and in general I would say society, i.e. the ministry of mine is working to change the situation here, i.e. these 130 million kunas that Croatian citizens single out, or craftsmen, that they have in some way. The craftsmen, all right. But Croatian craftsmen are Croatian citizens. What aren't they? ... It's all right. [[You can't hear it.]] I want the transparency and visibility of the Chamber to increase. Here, that's what the intensity of that proposal is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40662	Thank you. Next replica, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40663	Thank you. Ma Ministers right here on this trail regarding the transparency of the business of the Croatian Chamber of crafts I am for transparency. I've been looking for the same thing and trying to find some financial report for last year or at least last year. However, there is nowhere to be found and that is what is terrible and what is worrying. We can deal with this problem with chambers in one way, which is to make the law binding, let's say, the Croatian Chamber of crafts that the annual financial report is publicly published on their websites because it is extremely important to know the answer to the question of who, in fact, the Croatian Chamber of crafts accounts, whether they are to you as Minister of crafts, whether they are to us as parliamentary representatives or whether they are to account for business and spending, through transparent spending of the funds, exclusively to craftsmen who, of whom, are all the necessary funds. I'll take the chance because you mentioned it in one section and a craftsman, but I'll use it to ask you why, for example, a craftsman and there was talk that the craftsman would be free of charge in this bill we didn't do it, so here's at least one expense to the crafters, since I really think it's unnecessary. Because what it says in the craftsmanship is in the solution that every craftsman gets. And that was at one point when it was supposed to multiply the craftsmen times 500 kuna how much money was accumulated by the crafts, I think the time has passed and this tradesman spending would have meant the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40664	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40665	As far as craftsmen are concerned, you're right. We suspended the price last year for six months, or we put a zero price. It was from 1.7 to the end of the year, since it's 200 kuna, and given that some are doing some work, public administration offices, we're getting material and what's being printed. We will now, in a very soon time, go into a digital form of craftsmanship and then there will no longer be any need for any price, so that it does not need to be written in the law. It'll be settled by a rule. And I can guarantee you that by the end of this year the craftsmen will be going into zero kunas and will probably work if we succeed in doing so digitally this year. And if we fail next year, it goes for zero kunas at our expense until that's the case. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40666	Thank you. Next replica, Đuro Popiè, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40667	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, Mr. Minister said you actually stated some sort of surprise or whatever it was that HDZ wouldn't support this law. Let me just say it again, so as much as you dispute the credibility of leadership or the Chamber of crafts as an institution, I repeat what I said before, if someone in the name of the Chamber of craftsmen writes that this law will endanger the existence of craftsmen, that this could lead to the devastation of the crafts profession, etc. Not to mention, at least this text has about the Chamber of Commerce itself and the way the President will be elected, then we, as responsible representatives, have no right in this form and of course give this reading support to this law. It would be good for you to respect this point of view in this finding. But you take it as your right, so you and your administration, the one who wrote that law, to know more and better than here and from that 160-year-old institution. Regardless of any knowledge, abilities and experience in this institution have accumulated in these people, and it would be likely to expect that if such findings are already written to all MPs to consider it. We're considering it, you don't want it. And it will be your responsibility what happens after that. And you're talking about that 80,000 craftsmen have the right to choose, so they've chosen so far just the way they've set it themselves, not the way the state wants to determine it today, or you personally, for what personal reasons I don't know. That's a big difference. So, you and this fact that the Parliament will discuss the report of the Chamber of crafts is really precedent and nonsense, I'm sorry! You'll have a crafts chamber that's clearly now owned by the Chamber of Commerce, which is the same for another category of economics that will function on a different principle. Please, you have until the second reading to collect it and fix what you can fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40668	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40669	Okay, I mean, I've said it many times today, so no, don't underestimate the people who did it, it's not just me. It was written by people who are dealing with it, who look at the economy from several angles, who have experience, who have told me the arguments that it stands for, something does not stand, and in the end, the government, or the ministry, has made a decision on what kind of law it will propose. And if someone writes on paper to tell you to give you white paper and says this paper is black, you're not going to understand it because it's the director of the paper factory that it is. I suppose you have the right to take your stand. And I just realized that the only club in the HDZ is that attitude, don't be mad at us, that's it. You're proud and that's good. So you could have changed things for a very long time in this country, and unfortunately you haven't changed them, so now somebody else has to do it. ... You wouldn't change? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, look, you have a situation that's just as interesting as the chamber contribution of 300 million kunas not charged. So it's a very clear message that then craftsmen thought the way it was all organized. So you need to look a little deeper things, you don't need to stay, and we're all always clear when certain changes go that there must be some resistance. And that's right, so you won't guess if you had some privilege until yesterday and your status is clapping at you if you don't have it tomorrow. That's right, but we're aware of that. It's important that the motives are fair and that tomorrow's situation will be better for the craftsmen. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40670	Thank you, too. Next replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you've actually just given one very good piece of information in your answers, you said that the craftsman's chamber is one big firm, one big company that pays another 350 people who work in the system out of the pocket of craftsmen, and then you added that you still paid 70 people in the Ministry of crafts. It could be said that our craftsmen still have enough power when we talk about these relationships whether really those 350 people with those 83 thousand craftsmen are not people who could really be heard and give their remarks that we should respect or that one smaller group of people, your associates, who have made the bill stronger than them. There is one post-op rounding Croatia in economic circles, where it says Croatia's problem is in progress and development because the minister goes six months ahead of economy ministers. And what's very important in this part, and I'm pulling that comparison now with this number of people you've been talking about because you said that the people who helped write this law in the tax system, not those people who work in a system that needs to be guarded by craftsmen. So there's one thing that's worried about it, and it's tied to that post-it that's being used. I would just say here that you should definitely think about some things, allow craftsmen to function, give maybe tax reliefs on a chamber contribution, but in any case ask them one poll question when we talk about polls, how are they satisfied with the ministry's work?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40672	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40673	So look, this question will be answered by Croatian citizens in 2015, and I am convinced that the polling question will be at least 10 times bigger than for the party you represent. So let's do the poll, let's play it like this on the first line that sounds like they're being carried out and they mean something, and basically I'm being interviewed like all the other politicians in the election. So what I'm doing is I expect citizens to either reward or punish if they think I wasn't doing well. And that's going to happen in 2015. As far as this is concerned, you didn't get it right, I didn't say that 70 people in the ministry were paid by craftsmen. There's 90 people working in my ministry, and I'm just compainting that 350 people work in the HOK. That's what I said. I didn't say these guys were paying for something. I just want to show four times as many people working in the crafts chamber, and the ministry has 90 people and 40% of their chamber contributions are spent on wages. But again, I'm telling you, I don't want to comment on the internal things of HOC, it's their business. I want to set standards, and that's all I care about. How will they spend their contributions? This will be said in the election by the craftsmen whether they are complex or not. So these same craftsmen who will choose them next time will say whether they agree to spend their contribution to the Sports Games in Losinj where one day the chamber pays, another day the regional chamber, the third day pays the craftsman himself and spends great money on it, and for example. organizers who do this to get another 300 kuna a fee for the lost day in their craft. Look, it's business. We need to change the way we work. I am convinced that this law will make it in the chamber... that people have to turn a little bit more towards craftsmen, help them to work, allow them to be easier, and not deal with someone has said it well to the foster parents and sports games. I don't think that's the basic intensity of the chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40674	Thank you. And the last replica Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40675	Thank you very much. It is true, Minister Maras, that I have told you that for a long time I have not heard a better discussion with more concrete proposals and no more politicizing, but in all I have seen a desire for as high-quality legislation as it is important for craftsmen and craftsmen. The HDZ Club said it was not for this kind of law but if you carefully wrote down all the remarks that you will still be able to hear until the end of the individual debate and if there is no vanity and vanity with your team and respect everything that is real and good for this law then this law will be good and HDZ will support such a law. When you said it was impossible to share and determine what activity was craftsmanship, so you determined Article 2. any economic activity was allowed. It means that craft activity is every economic activity. This means that the craftsman can be the owner of the factory and produce in the factory. We'll mix up what companies of capital will do, which will be done by craftsmen. It is therefore necessary to determine what is a crafts activity. When it comes to vocational schools or chambers who's going to take exams, well, vocational schools are for that, no one else. Imagine what it would be paradoxical to read somewhere in the law that legal exam lawyers take in front of the bar and that the reports of the Bar Association are accepted or not accepted in the Assembly, that would indeed be paradoxical. And there are so many situations that only a little rationally think, accept and the law will be very, very high-quality but let's get away from irrational reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40676	We have an answer, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40677	Okay. I'm glad you brought it up here. What's my only problem with education? Because it would take us some time to transfer the system from this system that now operates on the Professional Education and Professional School Agency means we would have a certain vacuum. But I'm glad you said that, and I'm sorry that it wasn't one of the proposals of the HDZ Club because there's no such thing in this paper from the Chamber of Commerce, so it's a good thing they didn't suggest it, and it's a good thing that they listened to you at the club and, let's say, a fellow Milosevic made such an argument because I also think that there should be some changes here, but I'm worried about this vacuum that I've talked about before and we'll try to see if there's anything that can be done about it because I agree that I don't need to do it needlessly, I'd say two systems, and on the other hand we're going to burden the cost trades for something else. So we're going to listen to all the comments, we're going to respect everything that we think is possible. I wouldn't underestimate saying again all those who work in the state apparatus to make laws because they're people who worked in the HDZ government after all, so they're not some new people. And maybe here I am looking at you Mrs. Lovrin at the Justice Department Mrs. Duke was also working at the time, so she was also working on this law. They're professionals and experts and we tried to get to the best proposal. There are no policies here, there are no political decisions here, and if it's a political decision, which is that we want the system to be more standard and transparent than it was until yesterday, and that's what I'm sure I'll be after the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40678	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to an individual debate. Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's while the minister is still there, I have to say that in the well-known manner of the Croatian government, it's not answering the question, but it's reacting so contemptuously and arrogantly, so I've only been given a pretty decent question with a contemptible answer, and what if they don't have a master's exam at all? And I asked why the subcontractor must know everything about land books and companies, but of course I agree that he knows all about the floor characteristics of the floor types of tool selection and that's part of that exam. But he's not my minister, and that's why I think we should have a master's exam, but, of course, the minister didn't answer that question about land books, just like his colleagues, Maric, under his belt, answered. But that's their picture the public will see. Given the briefness of time, much is said about this law, I will limit myself to the question of the responsibility of the craftsman for the obligations arising from the business of craftsmen. In fact, there may be little clarity in the public about history, so there somewhere in the former Yugoslavia and in the SRH there was a law called the law on self-resistance of business activities that spoke of such a working man, and that is what we call a craftsman today, I guess, a working man who performs his own activity corresponds to his own assets. It was like that back then. In 93th in Croatia, the Republic of Croatia passed a Law on crafts which is determined that the craftsman corresponds to the total amount of assets required to carry out the crafts. And so it worked until 2010 when the Constitutional Court set out on its own initiative to assess the constitutionality of this provision, found it incompatible with the Constitution as a whole and abolished it. Since then, there has been no provision of any trade law, no provision on liability for the reason that the provision was abolished in 7 months 2010 but was followed by the Executive Act which also has provisions on enforcement. Reasons for the suspension referred to in the Constitutional Court,... the provision is so well-supply that it corresponds to all the assets that are required to carry out the crafts that the provision is therefore unclear and undefined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not clear and undefined. So today, the proposer of the Law on crafts, calling for the Constitutional Court's decision, should not have returned the provision of the responsibility of craftsmen to meet all of their assets to what was then there in Yugoslavia. Therefore, it was not meant to return it so but to introduce a provision in the law on the restriction of liability on certain assets, but to clearly streamline it, as suggested by the court because it was unclear in a way that the property to which the crafter corresponds was determined clearly to regulate its registration method. Why? In order for all economic and legal actors to know in advance the extent of the responsibility of the person they intend to deal with. So what the Constitutional Court points to is on the one hand the ambiguity of that provision and the lack of determination. On the other hand, it speaks of an unequal definition of the extent of the responsibility of natural persons. And there mentions the merchants of the individual in the Company Act, saying that they are not equal because the trader is an individual and now no matter how corresponding they are to his entire assets. On the other hand, we have a business inequality in economic business between craftsmen as entrepreneurs and companies as entrepreneurs, so they as a company of capital and companies... So, what am I saying? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a proposed decision, as set out in Article 36 of the Law, introducing a provision that the craftsman shall correspond to his or her assets but has an exception to paragraph 2 which states that the exercise cannot be carried out on the property of those who serve for, which are minimally necessary for the dwelling of him and the person who is obliged to maintain and on those properties necessary for carrying out the activity if that activity is the main source of income for life. So this is the consequence of this item 2 as an exception is the consequence of those media images that we have seen where craftsmen for some debt are disembarked from their homes etc. It's good to take care of it and it should, but we can't sort out the law partially by the laws as we see what picture on TV. I, following the images now mentioned by Minister Maras, have referred the question to Prime Minister Milanovic whether he will change the executive law in a way to exclude themselves from the commission of property necessary for citizens' housing. He very much answered me, resolutely, whether I know what possible abuses are and that is out of the question. So now that it's out of the question for all the citizens in this country why now for craftsmen comes into consideration. So, I think they should be protected, but I believe that the place in this provision is not in the Law of Rotation, but that it belongs to him in the executive law where these situations should be resolved. And I'm asking why it would be scarier if it was a decommissioned craft, and I agree that it should be protected than when a worker who does not have his own fault is left without a job, can't pay his dues and the claim comes to fruition. I think we'll have another question from the Constitutional Court that will solve your inequality. So I think these provisions should be placed where this matter should be and that's in the executive law. In fact, we already have in Article 75(2) of the Implementing Law, which provides that a person who performs his or her own registered activity to carry out his or her performance. In the case of financial assets, therefore, which are restrictions as well as for persons who do not carry out their registered activity, and that it cannot be implemented on those things that are necessary for the performance of the activity and if that is the only source of income. Of course, the executive law, as I said, is exempt from real estate, which now allows this law only for craftsmen. I don't think it's right. And therefore, we do not think that this provision of bill 36 is good at leading to new inequalities, so on the one hand, the question of the scope of the liability of operators in economic business. And on the other hand, one protection for only one group of citizens. We therefore propose to the Proposer to take a look at these remarks by the Chamber of Commerce, so that Article 36 should read. And not because, as the minister imputed to us, it is because we are politically or put ourselves in them or they are with us already simply because this article is both essentially and unambiguously well-supplyed in my opinion. And to resolve these doubts, protect the craftsman. And as you can see, they suggest this Article 4 is exceptional if a craftsman and corresponds to all of his assets and the same as that of a company – the company of capital corresponds to his owners with total assets if they were in bad faith, if they misused the business of the company and thus prevented tax collection, etc. So there are some exceptions. And the craftsmen here suggest that it's also worth it to them. So when they misbehave, they don't have this protection. If this is the only part of the responsibility left, then I really don't know why anyone else would be a craftsman today. So, super can start a company for 10 kn, it doesn't fit, it can do whatever it wants, then it doesn't fit with anything except 10 kn to caricate, especially in light of what was on the proposal of Minister Linic at the government, so that craftsmen pay VAT as well as other entrepreneurs immediately after the invoice was issued for what the minister of crafts voted for. And I think not only craftsmen, but also small entrepreneurs that should be allowed to let them and to order that VAT be paid at a fee so that they don't completely fail and those small entrepreneurs to maintain themselves. After all, it was also one of the electoral, in the Croatian Democratic Community's election programme for the past elections. But here, the citizens recognized something else obviously at their own expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40680	Thank you. Time. We have one replica. Comrade Maric, you're too late. I already broke up with my colleague. Here's your pal Shuker, replica. My colleague Maric answered, but he was too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Lovrin, so you've been excellently elaborated on what I've been wanting all day to warn the minister, which is that he, with this provision of the law, which is this kind of populistly written and that can be abused in thousands of ways. However, he is not aware of any other fact, that this way restricts entrepreneurs in their entrepreneurship activities. Because those with this provision in Article 36 can't practically get a loan anywhere. Who's going to lend them credit if no one guarantees them anything? You can wave your finger all you want, but this article in 36 says it can't be his property that serves him for his apartment. And what if someone goes to the trade, there's nothing but the apartment, rents a workshop. He wants to buy a 500,000 kuna machine. He's got to bet on something to get a loan. Who's gonna give him credit if he's up to something that can't be done tomorrow? But if we were to define, what we've been saying all along is what the property of a craftsman is and automatically transfer it to a company where, in the same way, the Constitutional Court won't object to it. I don't understand why you're running away from it. Every craftsman has a list of basic assets because he has to have them. And who's going to calculate depreciation? He must have a list of basic assets. And if he wants to refuse pre-tax, he has to put them in a list of basic assets. This is defined by the Income Tax Act. But this is a pure populist story. We prevent some craftsmen from moving out of Croatia. Let's see how many people lost their house except for those who went into some kind of interest loans. And let's not deal with making a decision that's ten times worse, which will make it impossible for people to borrow, to get to the machine, to eventually get into some sort of leasing relationship with leasing society to get some kind of machine because of a provision of an article that's populist and nothing else. She's not helping craftsmen, she's getting back at the craftsmen. Let's say it's a craftsman's property...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40682	Thank you, fellow Shuker, for your time. We have a reply from my colleague, Lovrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40683	... far better, simpler, fairer, so as to determine this property clearly and that it is entered into the crafts register, that property with which the craftsman operates. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] It would then not, however, be the third paragraph of this Article 36, that if a believer, on the basis of a voluntary legal transaction with a craftsman, acquired a claim or mortgage on that property, that he would not be able to object. But, of course, there's still something about pears, apples, the law of crafts, executive law, etc. For now we shall not know when this law is done according to which it shall go, according to the law of twisting, or according to the law of law, and the logic would be to walk according to the law of the law of the law, as the law of the law of the law of law, and to the law of the law of coercion. Any loans for which a property outside the assets used to carry out the trade would not be covered. And everything would be clearer. And he would know who enters legal traffic and business what he could count on in case of default by craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40684	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Comrade Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, when I listen to this debate, then I think about what the goal is, in fact, this law, whether it is to introduce order in the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen or to improve the conditions of business of Croatian craftsmen. If the goal is to introduce order, then let us remember the introduction of Minister Jovanovic's order in sport, the introduction of order in agriculture and elsewhere, and we will come up with devastating results very easily without any polls. It's also about the chamber's contribution, whether the chamber's contribution as a mandatory or chamber's contribution as a voluntary. The demagogue thesis, a demagogue debate in Croatia at the moment, is not possible to organise people or pay them, let alone allow everyone to do something for themselves, and we are already saying that it is practically unorganised within a few hours in the EU. My proposal is also this, according to our esteemed minister who, unfortunately, had to leave the debate on the Law on crafts to represent a party that is minor and that does not really mean anything to him personally, I think that when the arguments disappear, then the ideas go away, but a message and just a little reminder that I represent a party whose founder gave life in the Belgrade Assembly for Croatia and for Croatian peasants both for Croatian craftsmen and for Croatian intellectuals. It is my suggestion that the chamber contribution be left mandatory and that membership be mandatory but that this contribution be treated as a tax relief to craftsmen. In this way, we will help them to be organised that it is not a great burden for them and that they are preparing for the EU to prepare for the markets that are waiting for them in the EU because they will be confused by what few are left. And that's why we need to organize them and figure out how to put it together and how to organize it. I speak from one point of view as a man who is at the head of the town of Križevci where 501 years ago was founded the Bureau of craftsmen and where today we have the rules of this army, we keep it in the city museum. It was voluntary then, but the rules were very strict. Today we are talking about the volunteering of craftsmen, today it is no longer possible to introduce such strict rules. At that time, just a little for example, it's worth knowing from those rules, if the craftsman who was a member of the company didn't go to the funeral of his fellow craftsman who died then he was kicked out of the company of craftsmen. Those were rules, very firm and very clear. We cannot make or implement such rules today, but let us not break up the institutions with demagogue approaches and turn the debate into debate whether the craftsmen will choose the president one vote or choose him in any other way. Whether it will be a ministry that will determine the rules of the game or be 83,000 craftsmen and 350 employees in the sector paid by craftsmen. So they're reducing our unemployment even more, and we can indirectly say, rather than let them find their own way, help them and help them do business. Let us help them from those and save them from those who destroy them daily. I have nothing against the state system that will introduce order where the rules of the game will be clear and where they will all be treated under the same conditions. But I'm against it, but an inspector or an inspector goes past the construction site where the board is put in, and that construction site does that and that craft or that little company and that's where the inspector comes in and he does the record. And besides that site, there's a second construction site where there's no charts where a craftsman who was in the system until yesterday was working, but he checked out because he said that it's not worth it to be a craftsman so he can't handle the pressures and the burdens imposed on him daily and that he's just better off being in the gray economy, working on black, and that he'll be able to survive. Like I didn't want to, but I had to do it. It's a common line heard by craftsmen. They don't want people closing turns, they're forced. We kill them with one bureaucratic nemo, we kill them with inspections, they're on their necks all the time. So why does a little craftsman need to come every month or all two or three? So let him come once in three years, he'll find out everything, he'll know everything. If he was wrong for three years then he'll be punished and sanctioned. But if the craftsman registers the craftsman today, log into the system no matter what he's not at the Employment Service, but he's done a good job just to direct him a little bit, let's help him survive to feed himself and his family, and then let's control him to be in the system and he has to obey the laws. But it's not right for people who register to have to respect everyone for being punished twice, for paying double, and for those who don't do it in principle to laugh at them and say I don't care I'm not in that system, so I don't have to answer for it. Some articles mention local self-government so spontaneously, and I will tell you as head of local self-government long-term that local self-government is very connected to trade associations, that this is often a joint job. And with me in my town, there's a well-known deputy minister, unfortunately, the ministry hasn't supported this crafts-economic fair in the Križevci run by craftsmen. So he didn't run artificially, he was run by craftsmen by people who live by the crafts. So local self-government should have some possibility of participating in the preservation and formation and operation of a craftsman's association in that association, perhaps in some system, that the buildings that local self-government gave to craftsmen today are passed by someone in some other association to become owned by someone who knows where, and she was given it was owned by citizens of a local self-government. So we need to modify some of this stuff a little bit. As regards some other articles, Article 73 should define a little. In Article 12 of the Rules of Procedure on residences for the performance of crafts, the ministry responsible for crafts, the ministry responsible for construction and the ministry responsible for environmental protection said. People dear in what time? When will this man get that solution within what time? Why don't we bring these things down to the level of local self-government, that's where it'll be settled in three days. Let's speed up the process, this way we're just creating problems and people are losing their will and they're not going to register, they're not going to enter the system. So, what's important here is what's being said about these spending on that chamber contribution. It's okay. I'm sure it's not all great and great and I've often heard critics of craftsmen on account and chambers and associations. There have been such criticisms, there are and there will always be them. So we might find a solution to make a certain legal control of the spending of that money in that part of it, but not in a way that we determine how they will spend but rather determine how and for which purposes they can spend it to what extent. Maybe that's the solution to direct them that way. And thus to protect against any manipulations of money, as soon as the money is clearly in question, there can be manipulations and they can appear as such. And finally, when we looked at Croatia's agricultural chamber, then we got a good example of how very easy it is because of some political narrow interests going to destroy a system that hasn't even started to work and how we have broken Croatian agriculture today. Let's not even think about breaking Croatian craftsmen. They're a endangered species anyway. It's gonna be hard to survive anyway. The state and the ministry need to help them, not make them pay more money and make their living conditions more difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40686	Thank you. We've reported several replicas. The first one came forward by Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, the Honorable Representative of the House. I agree completely with your debate and I'd like to say a few sentences in favour of that. And I'd like to talk, of course, about the problem of crafting especially those old crafts that unfortunately disappeared from our midst, so today there's less furry, there's less umbrellas, hatsmen, there's less real goldsmiths doing it manually. Not to mention other turns that may have been in some smaller environments. My colleague Maric already talked about it, and I would like to say that he really feels in Zagreb, Zagreb, individual streets, so let's say Ilica from Selska, so when you get to Frankopanska, it's short for 70 craftsmen who were there and are being complemented by different cafes and some bakerys. The same is true in Gundulic, where old craftsmen were known, no more of these craftsmen. I'll say something and he has a right to say it because I've been the daughter of a craftsman for 40 years and my father from 0-24 at 77 is still going to his workshop, inherited by his, my brother. But craftsmanship is on its knees. On your knees. On their knees, they are, craftsmen are really those who pay taxes, really those who can't sleep if they can't secure pay for their workers, rather, they're real, old craftsmen, they're craftsmen who price, who were in the reality of developing some local self-government or generally some place they were in. In some times, however, they did not respect and appreciate them, but they lived well. Today, craftsmen no longer fall into the middle layer, unfortunately falling into the lowest layer because they barely make ends meet. And you're absolutely right. Every law that's Brings to crafts, here's a sentence let it be affirmative, it should be a law that will ensure a really better work and better progress in crafts, and unfortunately for two years the economy has been on the lowest branches and that feels our craftsmen. [[/Intruder: Time of fellow twilight. Finish up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40688	Thank you very much. I've allowed you to elaborate a little longer, however, I expected a replica, and you've positively responded to the presentation of your colleagues. ... Here's my colleague, Hrg, the reply to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Usually a replica is a discrepancy with the quote. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40689	I'll, I'll say that this one colleague of the twilight, this one class of craftsmanship that you're talking about, is nurtured in education and education in the one where you pass the master's exam, it's not just a profession, it's a culture of craftsmen. That's where you get the way a craftsman behaves. That's what we're missing. And that part in our schools is missing. The chamber should also have a stronger influence in determining both professions and profiles in vocational schools where potential personnel are educated, such as the chamber and craftsmen who have granted the licence, who want to take on the practice of children who go to vocational schools should be particularly encouraged financially and receive money for that. Because they need to create new masters, and that's where we're not going in the right direction. That's the point of the law. This will create some preconditions and some future of craftsmanship in Croatia and not in this way. And the traditional twists and other turns they die, they die because there's just no way to help them so much at the local level. Because local levels don't have the ability to help and craftsmen aren't what you said they were never as popular as peasants. They weren't favorites in any system because the system couldn't control them, they were independent, they were independent. They were on their own. They created and made themselves, they didn't respond to the system because the system loves dependent citizens, those who depend on them. Those who must come pray, who must come begging. That's the point of the story. Therefore, craftsmen and peasants are not favorite systems created to manipulate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40690	Thank you. We have the next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40691	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hrg, you've been saying something about the election and the chamber organization. Here's what I'm going to say is that the bill really speaks as if the Ministry is some craftsman's soul-care professional, and it's worried if they know what they're going to do and how to choose. So then it provides for in Article 88(3) that maybe no one has seen it, he says: "The procedure and the way in which the president is elected will be determined by a general act adopted by the assembly, with the previous consent of the minister responsible for the crafts." So it's not enough that the law said they'd have him, ordered them to choose him directly but then he'd still have the Ministry of crafts to prescribe to them how and how they'd do it because they didn't have to be smart enough and mature enough. But there's something else interesting, and here's the item 5 that's talking about impeachment. Therefore, extraordinary elections are discussed when the president dies, that he resigns, loses the status of craftsmen and based on the assembly's decision on extraordinary elections. And now watch when the assembly can decide on extraordinary elections if it votes 2/3, with 2/3 of the members of the assembly's votes on the initiative of the members of the congregation. If we take that as president, if this were to be the choice of 83,000 craftsmen as many as there are, then he should get half the majority of all those who went to the election there will be several thousand, tens of thousands of craftsmen. And who can submit the initiative for his elected president so directly? The assembly. It seems to me that I've heard here somewhere that the congregation has 70 members. A quarter of 70 is 14. So someone who has been elected with several tens of thousands of votes in what is proposed to us here as the most democratic procedure his appeal will move on the proposal of 17 members of the congregation because I was talking about the congregation not all craftsmen but delegates of craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40692	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Hrg. Otherwise, it's 17, not 14 of my colleagues, Lovrin's fourth. You said 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40693	Dear colleagues, Lovrin, you said the ministry was being appointed as a concierge. Well not only the ministry, the entire government is being appointed as a midwife and she knows very well what the citizens of Croatia want and the citizens of the poor are stupid, they don't know. That's how it works. Not that the ministry here wants to get involved in these articles in the elections and that it wants to dictate a pace in an institution it doesn't finance, which is not in the state system but simply wants to break it. She wants to kill her, but let's not be surprised. So we ministers, and here in the assembly, are appointed as superiors over the MPs. Well, it's very often present, so that if they don't put their hands on their superiors or not, then the boy doesn't even ask for people to raise their hands for them. It is one of the well-wrought modes of work, one of those could be said to be the haughty way of working, one phenomenon that happens and is allowed here in Croatia. So that haughtiness spreads all over the place and now it wants to break down the systems. It would be better to go into those structural changes that are spoken of very often here and that were in the election written programs, so today we would probably have a slightly better situation and not the citizens, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, peasants screaming so much about it than they would say come on, thank God the government has gone into some changes and the government has finally begun to narrow down the apparatus that is suffocating Croatia's state. But no, it does not go into structural changes within itself, but it goes into changes in structural within institutions over which there is no authority. It's totally wrong. That's just to distract you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40694	Thank you. Next replica Goran Maric, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40695	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrg, you spoke of state institutions for supervision that pay more attention to craftsmen than others in the segment and actually exert constant pressure and control almost daily. Well, it's not just the craftsman. It's a relationship between big and small. How many sanitary inspectors, labour inspectors, labour protection inspectors, state inspectors pay attention to craftsmen and small companies. They don't get to go to the big ones, and they haven't arrived in 20 years, not once. And we don't say how much time it takes for a craftsman and a small one. For example, here was the other day I had a case, one told me that on one product the price fell off, and there were 100 products of the same product and because of that one price it did not get a warning but had to pay the fine. And when you're driving on the highway or anywhere, then you can only see the price of gasoline on the display a mile away from the gas station, but when you get to the gas station you can't see anywhere the price is not printed. He never warned any inspector about that. Look at the shops that are closed. All small. In large hotels, restaurants, and even in some restaurants, they don't have a trade, they don't have a registration at all. The inspector never came, because if he had come, then he wouldn't have been able to work. For 10 years, I've known restaurants that work, they don't have any permits. Well, half the Adriatic is like that. And then it's no wonder that we lost confidence that you spoke in state institutions, it's not people's fault, but institutions are guilty of losing their trust because they're selective and targeted, and it's the worst thing that can happen in one country that institutions act selectively and from the most important to the lower-ranked ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40696	Thank you, too. We have a colleague, Hrg, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40697	Here's a thank you with those extra arguments you've made. That's exactly what this is about. I mean, we talk to people every day, we come to them. There are many interesting things, but I agree with you absolutely in this section. If we were to go to the big one, then we'd have to stay there long enough, or maybe we'd leave very quickly because the record would be over very quickly, and the little ones weren't, you know, important to anyone. A lot of little ones, one by one, no one notices. They're not complex, they're not in the system. There is a mistake, and here I resent the Croatian Chamber of crafts. There she must stand stronger as an institution, it must protect the craftsmen, that is the part where her role is very powerful and where the craftsmen expect her because that little craftsman dares not object to the inspection because tomorrow two new ones will come to him and then they will shut him down and he will suffer a man. But if the system is placed there, then it can be protected. It's one part that the Chamber of crafts didn't do enough for me, didn't edit it enough, didn't stand up enough to that dragon that just lit and swallowed and our little craftsmen and entrepreneurs, it's just one problem that keeps coming up and being there. And what you said and what I'm saying from the example I could now list 10 very, very simple examples that are really out of practice from the inspector coming in and saying in a restaurant that had a technical examination a few days ago, why don't you have a label on the kitchen door that's forbidden smoking. Now we're gonna give you a sentence and you're gonna go to the judge for a misdemeanor. Says this one, so I got all over the restaurant at the front door. It's nothing to do with you in the kitchen. Two days ago, he got permission to work and paid a man 2,000 kuna fine, didn't get a warning to stick the sticker. It's a case of practice. We can pretend we know these cases and we don't know. We can open our eyes, we can close our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40698	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40699	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke of introducing order into several areas, including craftsmanship. And in this way, the introduction of order is indeed a fear of what the craftsmen warn about so that the introduction of order could bring about almost the collapse of 30% of craftsmen, and it should certainly be kept in mind. The craftsmanship is a very vulnerable activity and it needs to be extremely careful with all possible content you know well about because you come from a city that has a tradition of crafts long-term where a crafts fair is being held and where an extremely beautiful crafts school is being built that unfortunately will not have a perspective for this in the future. The other thing I noticed you were talking about introducing order into agriculture. So what led to the introduction of order in agriculture? By reducing milk production, reducing meat production, all indicators of numerous family economies have failed, not to mention how many cows ended up on forced slaughter. That's not the order, but unfortunately it's a breakdown. So then the introduction of order in the Agricultural Chamber also led to our peasant now here for several hours before joining the EU he was simply not prepared, not prepared and those other services did not prepare him enough to welcome him. They won't wait to kneel. They'll wait to lie down. Unfortunately, our peasant is entering the EU and it's a disaster, it's a breakdown. And then it really comes to what you're thinking, don't help us like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40700	Thank you, too. We've got an answer from a colleague of the House, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40701	Thank you very much. As a matter of principle, Col. Milinkovic is the two groups that I spoke about a little while ago that are too self-sufficient and basically no one can influence them, they guarantee both of them with their own assets and in some ways they can provide bread for themselves and for their children. The introduction of order can be done in a number of ways, the best way to first create the conditions to be as many craftsmen as possible to open them up as possible, and then introduce them in a few years of order and direct them in the right direction because they have already fulfilled the first one, so they are self-employed. And then the second part or other way that has been applied over the last year and a half is very intense to reduce the number so it will be easier to control that small number of craftsmen in this case, and there we discussed and talked a lot about peasants. So these are two ways of introducing order. I'm for that first way, I'm for a way of allowing people to open up and get into the system and then we're slowly initiating order for three to five years and then we're directing them to give them air to breathe. Let them be encouraged, and then we'll direct them easily. Those who break them will be dealt with in another way, and those who do right will still be helped because that is the way to think should work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40702	Thank you. And the last replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, here's what you've been mentioning are the Czechs, the rich crusader's past, which is also rich in the past, but I don't think that's exactly what you've done with the clear message. What were the Czechs, and why did the craftsmen even want to be part of the empire? In fact, in the Czech associations, its members had very strict rules, you mentioned some of these about tumbling, but they were much more important to the business of the craftsman himself, but they also benefited from the very active benefits of the benefits of the benefits, of the special position, of representation in the city councils, now it depends on the middle to the middle. And the questions that we ask in this debate are that when we talk about chambers that are related to the economy, and we have three of them now, we no longer have a agricultural chamber is whether its users are benefiting and benefiting because they are being imposed on membership in the HOK, so they can't choose whether or not they want to be members. On the other hand, if membership in chambers is not mandatory then the chambers are on the market they are fighting for their clientele. Therefore, some logic states that they will be in the interest of being as much as possible at the service of their members, that they will improve the service and that they will gain membership, rather than by the law of the prescribed obligation. You mention the gray economy, I agree that the gray economy should be contained maximum, but I must remind you that craftsmen have one comparative advantage over the d.o.o.s., which is that they pay taxes per invoice, not per issue. So the only reason they can go to the gray economy is competition on the market, or if they give a service without issuing an account. And in the end, you mention the agricultural chamber and the catastrophic state of agriculture, and I agree with you here, but I must remind you that your party has had a profound impact on the management of agricultural policy for the last 8 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40704	Thank you. We've got an answer from a colleague of the House, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40705	I'd have to fix a lot here, but I'm asking you to come to the Cross to see this museum section for a little while, so we can go to the craftsman's association so you can get to know it a little bit. I've met quite well with... There were nine of them then, and now there's nine of them in the Chrysovci, so that's not a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I understand that, I'm a lot of craftsmen, I work very hard with them, and we work very hard together. We scholarship students, along with the association of craftsmen and with some economic operators for professional professions. We're starting a series of programs along with the craftsmen's association. And I'm not saying this by heart, we often do projects together. But what you said, the benefit, do they benefit. Well, I'm sure they'll benefit. If they don't see it right now and don't have it, they haven't used it enough, then it's up to us, not to destroy it now, but to ensure the conditions for them to feel better about it, tomorrow to have. They'll be useful if they're joined. I repeat, what was done with the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is a disaster. The only thing that could have been broken was to bring the peasants together before entering the European Union. And don't say it wrong. The HSS has been in the government for four years. Out of that, he had a minister of agriculture for two years and for four years he had a minister of agriculture from 2000 to 2003 with a coalition with the SDP. And while HSS was in... for agriculture is much more isolated than you are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You killed them. A billion and a half in two years, you took down two budgets. So let's not talk about it too much and we could get involved in that story. But we don't talk about who, membership necessarily or not, so this bill says membership is mandatory. Do you intend to change that until the second reading, throw out the mandatory and place voluntarily? In a small country of 83,000 craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40706	Thank you. Next up for debate Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Hrg voiced his doubts as to why this law was passed, the Law of Turning. If you read it carefully, there's a reason for doubt. Let's say in a few days or weeks it will come before us to the table of the law, in fact the law has already been passed but we will discuss here in the Croatian Parliament on the Kazališna Law. Before that, we discussed the HRT Act. The theatre law only changes because the Croatian National Theatre could be replaced. Speaking these days with the actors who came to me, here in the office, who said, we don't care at all, they haven't fixed anything in law, the theaters don't work, we're interested in the real Theatre Law. When we talked about the HRT Act, we said the same thing we should do, but you need to pass a law that will allow Croatia's broadcasting to function. The law on crafts also raises doubts that it may also be aimed at making order in Croatia's crafts chamber. If order is to be made, I do not know enough the situation in the Croatian Chamber of crafts, I know it as probably every average citizen of the Republic of Croatia, or here in the Assembly as a parliamentary representative. I read everything the Croatian Chamber of Commerce wrote, yesterday I participated in a debate on the Committee on Economy. And it seems to me that this is not a good way to go because the law should allow craftsmanship in Croatia to survive. However, this law is a drop in the sea of riots and chaos in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. And yesterday, at the Committee on Economy, we discussed this unfair competition between craftsmen and those who set up, for example, a company for 10 kuna. Just before I talked about it in replicas, so perhaps I will repeat myself in some parts means a craftsman who should invest in his education, who should hire people, who should have a craftsman, craftsmen who take and master exams are unequal in business because society with limited responsibility doesn't all have to have and can deal with the same activity. When Minister Maras talked about it, he said they wanted to simplify as many people as possible. But in the same state, there are several different principles for the same jobs, for the same activities. I guess the same logic should be done and the laws should lead to some kind of righteousness in action. I fully agree with those who spoke, colleagues who said that the property of craftsmen should be defined. Because if we don't define the property of the artisan article 36, it doesn't make sense. I will not repeat it, because I think some colleagues have already read what is said in Article 36 in particular in paragraph 2 of that article. That article is fluid. Or deliberately confusing. And what counterpart Shuker used to say may be quite the opposite of making business impossible for Croatian craftsmen precisely because of article 36. I also agree with colleagues who have asked to define what craftsmanship really is, which craftsmanship includes, which is crafts activity. What's the distinction just before I told the company and craftsmen? Which is craftsmanship to companies. If you can carry out most of the activities as Minister Maras has said through crafts and companies, i.e. limited liability companies for 10 kuna, then it is only an organisational business form. It is certainly because of the way the Croatian Chamber of crafts is financed that what the Croatian Chamber of crafts is spending on should be transparent by the time, I do not agree with Mr Hrgo, when membership in the Croatian Chamber of crafts will be voluntary. At that time, the citizens of the Republic do not have the right to see a closed society, an interested society that will only determine what they will spend their money on. Public powers of the Chamber of crafts connect, in fact they are in close connection with the fact, in fact with mandatory membership in the Croatian Chamber of crafts. I think that these public functions should be taken over by the state, or the ministry, the competent ministry. At the time of the debate, I received one inquiry, which would not make them return to the border areas of the Republic of Croatia and to the undeveloped areas of the so-called area. The pausal crafts that existed earlier today do not exist, so the second reading should also be considered. It is certain that these oatmeal crafts, or craftsmen they have, should not be even then under this law, should be excluded from mandatory membership in the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen. It is absolutely certain that VAT should be paid per charge. Ma'am, someone mentioned earlier, I can no longer remember who mentioned why a roofer or a pizzaman, so a man who bakes pizzas has to know everything about land books. I think it was Mrs. Lovrin, yes. What's the need to know? Well, it probably wouldn't taste like pizza if she didn't know about land books, but she doesn't need to know about other things. But that's why a man who bakes pizzas, a roofer who works in a company doesn't need to know anything about it as much as he can, as I said before in a hairdresser's salon that's a company's haircut. All of what we've been saying today seems to me and I believe without politicizing was in the interest of repairing the status of Croatian craftsmen, of craftsmen standing on their feet, of helping craftsmen, of those who survived the 83,000 craftsmen, of the state not making their lives worse, of helping them. I hope that part, at least part of the motion from the debate sent by the opposition, will accept the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40708	Thank you, too. Now we're gonna stop, we're gonna interrupt the session, actually discuss this agenda item. We'll continue at 9.30 tomorrow. It's Peja Grbin's turn first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40709	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We are continuing the debate on the proposal of the Law on Trade. It is up to the honourable representative of Peja Grbin in an individual debate of 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40710	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we were talking a lot yesterday about the law of craftsmanship. There were some tough words, but I'll go with my reasons why I got involved in this debate. First of all, because of their title as a lawyer and certain provisions of the Law on crafts which have far-reaching consequences for the responsibility of persons engaged in craftsmanship, but also because of their occupation as a lawyer who had actually acted for years in a way that was regulated by the Law on crafts, so that I lived and worked under the provisions of this law for years. I personally consider this law progress compared to the previous one. We have several provisions that are quite important, specifically here I would talk about a provision on the possibility of transfer of crafts in case a craftsman goes into retirement which is quite important and does not require all those carousels that the craftsmen have done so far to move on to their successors by entering the joint crafts, getting out of that craft, etc. I also have certain objections to this law, so I'd like to make a very specific one. In fact, I don't think Articles 36 to 40 fall under the Chapter – Joint conduct of crafts. Article 36, most of the talks on him yesterday, definitely refers to all the trades not only to the common crafts, so it would be good to consider forming a new chapter for these articles or to be placed in a chapter relating to business because in my opinion they belong. But of course, I'll focus most on that provision that caused a lot of controversy yesterday, which is the provision of article 36 of the proposed text of the Law on crafts. And this is a provision that is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and with the legal order by which the craftsman corresponds to his entire assets for his obligations. And why is that? Because there is no special legal person or legal personality of the craft. There is only a natural person who acquires rights and obligations, and on the market he performs as a craftsman. The properties that are purchased are not acquired by some kind of entity crafts. They are obtained by a craftsman by his name and name. It was long ago and court practice established, especially in the part where my colleagues and others, for example, the prosecutors who asked for some money from the craftsmen, sued the craftsman. And the court practice said nicely you can't sue the crafts, the crafts as such doesn't exist, there's no legal personality. It exists only as one company based on which a natural person acts on the market. And that's it. And that's why a craftsman must fit all of his assets as I do, as is the case with any colleague of mine sitting here, as is the case with any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, as is the case with any company in the Republic of Croatia. Each person matches all of his assets. That is why such a provision as in Article 36(1) must exist. And it is also good for craftsmen because that craftsman does not correspond with all his assets but, for example, as it used to be in the Law of Turning only to what was entered into the craft, and what was later resolved through the Constitutional Court's decision, through the provisions of the executive law, would then come to a situation where no one wants to do business with a craftsman. Because who's going to do business with someone who's a hairdresser and give him the goods on debt, if he knows after that, he can't charge anything but the scissors and the combs that that hairdresser has. That is why such a provision is not only in line with the legal order but also good and beneficial for craftsmen. A certain examinations came up yesterday regarding how banks will lend loans when the craftsman does not correspond to what is referred to in Article 36(2), meaning his apartment or business premises used to carry out the crafts? However, that is why we also have in the law Article 36(3), which makes it very clear that the provision of paragraph 2 will not apply unless someone voluntarily gives the right to the matters referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. So me or anyone else can pawn their house and their business space if he thinks it's important to him, if he finds it useful for him to do a trade. Thus, mortgage loans are in no way compromised by such a provision of the law. However, I personally believe that the proposed solution has one flaw that should be complemented. But it is not just the ministry that proposes this act but must agree with the Ministry of Justice as part of the amendments to the Implementing Law to be announced. In fact, we must extend this provision on restrictions, which is to exclude certain things from the exercise. First of all, for all the registered activities, it means, "I'm sorry for all the free professions because I don't think craftsmen can be in a privileged position compared to, for example, architects, geodetics, doctors, etc. And I think that if we are already to achieve the equality of all entrepreneurs on the market then this provision must be applied at least in that part of business space and in companies. Because companies also operate on the market and they correspond to all their assets for their liabilities. In this context, in order to fully implement this provision, it must be brought into line with the provisions of the Implementing Law concerning the restriction or exemption of funds from enforcement in the event of enforcement of the property of persons carrying out the registered activity. And there you will see that there are other things besides this, other than real estate, are specifically tools that serve persons who perform registered activities. So I think this would come to life if it had to be brought into line with the provisions of the executive law. I will finish here and I will say that I consider this law to be good, that I find this law useful, that I consider progress in relation to the existing law and that if these provisions were corrected and brought into line with the Implementing Law or if the same provisions were entered into the Implementing Law then the full effect of the proposed provision 36 paragraph 2 could be applied not only to craftsmen but to all those in the same position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40711	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replicas first. First esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40712	Thank you very much. A fellow coat of arms with most of your debate agree. However, what is controversial and now in your part of the debate, and throughout yesterday is Article 36(2). Because when you pass a law like this, the only law to be applied to is Article 36(2) of the State when tax is paid. Because with a law like this, no one in any relationship with a craftsman will go unless this one gives him some kind of guarantee. Whether it's a mortgage on the house, a mortgage on the machine, a private meter or something else, it's simply not going to get into the business because it's aware that based on the provisions of Article 36(2), if there's an accident, it can't be charged. And that's controversial. The other thing, it's not true your legal definition of what a craftsman is, and what a citizen is, it's a legal definition of what he is, but you have a tax definition and that's the property that he has. So everything you buy in the trade you have the right to return tax on added value, has tax treatment. This is a business cost and reduces the tax base at the end of the income tax application. You can't buy through a crafts house, you can't buy a TV in the house, and it's a tax cost. So this is the cost of a natural person where he buys those funds from the income on which he paid income tax on the basis of a tax application at the end of the year. And there's a clear difference, and that's what we're trying to say. Or we're going to separate the clear assets of the craft, and it's already clearly defined by some tax laws, and that they have full treatment for all those who deal with some kind of activity, whether it's professional, independent, whether these companies are not at all an important organisational form, it's important that they all have equal rights and that they're all equal before the law. But at the end of the day, I ask a fellow question to whom, apart from the state, does Article 36(2) apply? Put yourself in a position if you would go into business with someone and you're sure you can't charge for that job tomorrow if it comes slow and in accordance with Article 36(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40713	The replica matches the esteemed Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40714	Here's a thank you. Paragraph 2 applies to all the believers of craftsmen, not only to the state, to you, to me, to all but those who, in accordance with Article 36. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. Article 2 And as for what you said about tax treatment, you're right, quite the tax treatment of things that have been entered into the trade is one, but we're back to the property issue again. The owner of this tractor, for example, that says on the craft, is not a craft, but a natural person carrying a craftsman. No, a craft can't acquire property, a craft can't acquire rights and obligations. The rights and obligations are acquired by the natural person owner of the craft, holder of the craft. A twist like that doesn't exist. The craft has an OIB of its owner, its holder, a natural person. A natural person has acquired rights and obligations. The matter of tax treatment is something else. You can be a host in the household, provide accommodation services in the household and continue to be treated differently with things that are related to the provision of accommodation services in the household and those that are yours that you do not use to provide services. But the owner of each other is the same person. If I had the craftsman of my business space, Peja Grbin would be the same as the owner of my apartment only that the business space would be treated differently and that's the catch and that's what needs to be understood when looking at Article 36(1). Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40715	The second line is the esteemed counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40716	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms, it is not clear to me from this law whether a craftsman guarantees his entire property or not. You claim yes and should be guaranteed, but the law says it does not guarantee even though it states in paragraph 1. "for the obligations that arise in the performance of the crafts, the craftsman corresponds to all of his assets" that is unequivocally unequivocal. But Article 2 shows that it does not guarantee an apartment, a house for housing or a business space in which it carries out crafts activities. Then he doesn't guarantee all the property if it's off. And you can't ignore the tax aspect of that because you can't trade as a natural person, and it owns, for example, apartments at sea, there's no tax relief for the apartment at sea but you can have for the machine that buys in function and trades it and it's necessary to define the property that's in the function of the craft and only guarantee that property with that property. Let's not help craftsmen with ways they don't want. And you say you can't do business, who's going to do business with craftsmen if you don't guarantee your entire assets. And who's going to do business with companies with 10 kunas of core capital? Is it the debtors and the greatest who have the least wealth? So take a look at the bankruptcy proceedings and the pre-fashion settlements that we're dealing with? Well, it's precisely with those who have the most property. Therefore, it is not non-payment and the status of debtors depends not on the level of property but on business morality and behaviour in... So here comes Cammeo, taxi to Zagreb a few months ago and made tens of millions of kunas of debt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the state forgives him. Which craftsman she forgave. And for example, so from the biggest companies. who owe as much as 5 or 10 billion kunas to both the state and suppliers. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40717	Thank you very much. The replica matches a colleague named Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40718	Now, I'll do it again. Article 36(1) clearly defines, which already exists in the legal order, that a natural person who is a craftsman, a craftsman, not a craftsman, corresponds to his entire assets. Article 2 refers to exceptions to the property which, for special reasons, is excluded from that purpose. But that's what we have for example for legal persons. This Regulation shall enter into The executive law we have clearly defined things, clearly defined things that are excluded from the rule of law for legal persons. And this is also about some of the things that, for example, are tax-treated and for which the legal person will receive a release, i.e. the return of VAT when he buys them. But here we're talking about two things. The first is to define the extent of responsibility and the second is to say, this article is the famous 36th paragraph 2 or Article 77. The law of law. The state's view that in order to protect other interests, certain things should be excluded from the exercise and prevent the execution of these things. To listen to my craftsmen, specifically, they wouldn't answer to anything. I do, but that's about it. They would like to introduce a fund of some responsibility to match the amount of 5,000 kuna. But if you want to limit your responsibility, then establish a limited-responsibility society. With all the advantages and all the disadvantages of such a way of performing on the market. And that's it, if you perform as a craftsman, you answer to all your assets. And if we, as a legislator, feel that you still need it somehow, we will make it easier to make a provision such as Article 36(2) and limit that extent of responsibility for certain specific matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40719	Excuse me, one notice to the members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the 19th session of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction will be held today on 6 June at 10 pm in the hall of Stjepan Radić, that is 1st floor, room 133. We continue with an individual debate and I give my esteemed colleague Boris Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The articles of the law were talked a lot yesterday and started this morning. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats Club, counterpart Martincevic and counterpart Petar Baranovic spoke, my debate will be slightly more general. The craftsmanship today is a endangered type of entrepreneurship that the state needs to protect. Everywhere in Europe, and in Croatia, craftsmanship is part of tradition, usually family economies from which they rarely... The strongest of the world and Croatian companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the past 30 years, various legal regulations in Croatia have often been hampered by their rigid relationship against craftsmanship. The Rigid relationship against the communist craftsmen has left a deep mark in all craftsmanship and the natural fear of craftsmen from state interventions in their work. In the past 20 years, the state has not fully seen the problems of craftsmen and has often put clean negligence and carefree craftsmen in positions of second-class citizens and their values are banked to the extreme. The craftsmen, however, managed to survive, and in many cases they were both an example of successful business and of creativity fins. And certainly, unfortunately, the unrecognized champions of Croatian private entrepreneurship have been in the last 77 years. Today, craftsmen have a particularly difficult time doing business. The economic crisis has a strong effect on them as well. In total speaking Croatian economy, such as craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship, they would say unplug and make the activity as simple as possible. Clearly in a way that does not create chaos and... and the anarchy is already maximum-free with a very clear role in controlling the state but only in terms of legality, equality in the economic game of all economic operators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The State must ensure that, regardless of the form of economic activity, everyone in the branch has a level playing field. One of the most important elements of individual success and thus the state is faith in itself but also mutual trust between state and individual and one is usually conditioned to another. The state must trust its citizens and citizens. Only with full trust and faith in its citizens can it advance in all areas. The confidence of the state makes citizens themselves more free, more creative, more successful. The state must establish such a system that mutual trust is natural and understandable in itself. Citizens must also trust their country, it is the only right relationship. It's mostly because it's their country. Free individuals, citizens and citizens have joined in wanting to live in an orderly society and have therefore created a state. And she has a duty to her institutes and institutions, in exchange for some civil liberties, some taxes, to provide them with their natural rights, their right to life, their right to freedom, their right to security and their right to happiness. The state needs to establish trust relations in all segments, especially the economy in medium, small entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. Only a courageous entrepreneur, a craftsman can be a successful, courageous, undertaking person in all things, and so craftsmanship moves borders and risks and numerous failed attempts but also risks and free innovation moves the borders and is therefore a free and secure citizen, a safe and free entrepreneur, a craftsman of the main driving force of society. And it is only the state that can, or dares and must, provide its citizen, in this case the craftsman with all freedom and security. The state makes this an education, incentives, simple legislation, ensuring equality for everyone, an effective judiciary, to list just some of the measures. Trust is achieved by recognition and social verification of the most successful excellent. The trust shall also be established by dialogue which is necessary in particular in the adoption of various regulations, as well as releases from various parafiscal and fiscal burdens, and in the case of significant changes in certain branches of craft management. Changes in society, the development of technologies, the creation of new occupations and the shut down of others and craftsmanship have occurred and many changes are constantly taking place. The Chamber of crafts should also experience some more modern changes. Economic and craft chambers were created in the world, as well as in Croatia first, and then as roof associations in order to protect their members from excessive tampering and administration of the state and to protect their members from unfair competition. With a sharp increase in entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, the state received a simplified negotiator on behalf of many in any process. The role of the Chamber of crafts as a roof craftsman's association of various crafts activities is dry and should take over... responsible tasks, thus liberating both the state and the company of tampering in the business of craftsmen, but its responsibility to society and its founders and users, craftsmen must be increased and tempered. Simplified for clarity should be about me like this. The craft chamber must be financed by craftsmen, if the membership fee is mandatory, then certain services provided by the chamber are also higher. If the services provided by the chamber are flat-rate on demand, then craftsmen should also pay membership fees and registrations at their own free will and the responsibility of the chamber shall be reduced. This is for the sake of clarity, a clearly simplified approach, but it speaks of how craftsmen could choose to protect them from tampering with the countries in their work, but thereby seriously increasing the responsibility of the chamber against their members, especially against the state and society. The state must encourage and assist the association of craftsmen to the chamber and to the roof craft chamber. Croatian craftsmanship is currently in crisis, as has been the whole of Croatia for 5 years. The crowd was cut off, and some crafts and went missing, some special craftsmen of the activities of the regulation of proper normisation also experienced bloom. In many cases, the state has been responsible for the collapse of the entire economic branches with which trades have been tied. The biggest... he did the privatisation process, but we're where we are. Croatian craftsmanship exists, thanks to God is tough and according to the available relevant data despite numerous closures there is also a permanent opening of new ones. Our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, regardless of the crisis in the economy, find enough incentives to mobilise all of their creative, educational, material capital in order to be fully realised as individuals and individuals, rarely with their entire family through the crafts. That optimism should be supported and helped. One way is to pass a new Law on crafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40721	Thank you very much. The individual debate will now address Parliament's respected representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy. So this empty assembly best says how much political clubs are interested in this law of craft and how much we're running away from real problems here. And what I am forced to do after the whole day of yesterday's debate, and today is why the proposer does not want to discuss three, four key issues that are problematic in this law, why don't you open a debate about it. Why it simply imposes its solution on the contrary and some of the views of parliamentarians who have the right to say what they think and also representatives of the Chamber of Commerce. But whether this law is a real problem of Croatian craftsmanship or the problems of Croatian craftsmanship are elsewhere and where the government could have done much more because the amendments to the law, in principle after a certain period of time, foster conditions and ways of business and some relationships, and ultimately, Croatia’s entry into the European Union itself simply encourages certain technical changes. But the basic problem of craftsmanship is surely the disappearance of large systems to which most Croatian craftsmen were tied. Do you really think an increase in VAT rates from 23% to 25% did not practically throw many service activities on your knee? Do you really think that the increase in VAT from 23% to 25% didn't open wide the door to the gray economy service activities? Do you really think an increase in electricity, gas, heating, etc. doesn't affect craftsmen? But that's where it is. We've been going to what we've been discussing for two days. So the first question is the property of craftsmen and with what craftsmen guarantee for the obligations that have arisen. We speak on the one hand as if everything was ideal in society, as if there were no ones who had opened a crafts activity with the intention of cheating on someone and they were a problem. These are the problems that the law should sanction and which should simply be recorded in the law because we are talking about that someone will not charge him for this, and what about the other one who delivered the goods or did some kind of service, and can't charge the goods delivered or that service. And so it would be fairest and fairest to define a craftsman and to guarantee certain jobs, and if anyone who enters a business relationship with a craftsman wants an additional guarantee and arranges to have his craftsman give, whether it's on some kind of movement in the house or on some property, it's a personal matter of craftsman and one with whom he enters into a business relationship. But the property of a craftsman is clearly defined by the Income Tax Act. It is also defined to which level the crafter pays income tax has one treatment and above which income levels pay profit tax. And you can't talk about the property that private property couch or TV in the house is like some kind of machine. It's simply not the same regardless of what we're talking about being a physical person. The craftsman is a natural person, however, the craft is an economic profession and way of organising. And what's the difference between whether someone wants to be a craftsman or someone wants to be a company, and it deals with the exact same activity, and it has a special, different treatment. And I don't understand why if it's a real problem why we don't go with that kind of treatment, because I repeat, article 36 opens up a lot of room for malversion. And ultimately, we will lead to the fact that Article 36(2) will be legally stated not by some colleagues, but in reality it will be exclusively about the request of the State to the taxpayer, because in every business relationship when someone reads Article 36 paragraph 2 and sees that no action can be done over that and that reason, and he knows that the craftsman has no other claims will simply ask him to apply Article 36(3), which is if someone voluntarily signs something that can be done and above the living space. It is something that we are simply opening up the possibility in this situation when in Croatia what is happening we forget that many of those who have a company without one employee and have created huge minuses in accounts and are in great proportion of those vast billions of indivisibility. In principle, they probably have, some of them also have crafts activities. So I'm talking about life, about reality, not theoretical assumptions. Because if we were acting that way, then this probably wouldn't happen. And make sure no one goes to sell the house to someone for 20,000 kuna. He's got a moving car and some other stuff that can be sold in the performances, etc. Don't take one example and say it's like that, but it's just not like that, but I'm saying that's what it is. It's a fee for the unemployed. I talked about it yesterday. Therefore, a new impose is simply imposed on craftsmen if they are to exercise a new right. It's clear as day. So, you want to make a fee in the event of unemployment, you have to pay a contribution to employment. But then it was supposed to be parallel to this law to push that law. The transmission of the crafts. Yes, this law is very well written. Just as the Law on Commercial Companies and crafts was defined when the craft turned into a company, people eventually had to pay taxes, this and that. 'Cause look, and that's where you get that problem that my colleague Grbin was talking about, and he just didn't take that dimension. You can't transfer funds that are tax-treated to someone else unless the law defines them. What is the value of calculating the depreciation of the underlying asset in the transferred craft? And then you have to clearly define in the Income Tax Act this category of transfer of trades and transfer of business books and everything else, otherwise the craftsmen will be in a great deal of trouble. This is only one step, but in order for him to really start carrying out the activity he has to solve the problem with the IRS. What about that basic fund book? What's their tax treatment? That is what colleagues and colleagues simply need to move this provision to the Income Tax Act, otherwise, if that does not happen, what happened when you switch to companies and transfer property will happen to you. Comerian contribution. Something that's just funny. Treating the Association of craftsmen as some kind of association formed by a group of citizens is simply ridiculous. Also, see how many budget users are from political parties and continue to submit a report to this House, no political party submits a report to this Assembly on spent funds. Well, I guess if the craftsmen have joined in something, if they've chosen a body of some kind, then I guess that body is publicly responsible enough to be responsible for the spending of those funds. I don't see any real reason why we should be discussing a chamber contribution in front of a house this crowded. What we have really greater knowledge and knowledge on the basis of two, three papers than craftsmen who participate in this and who are directly interested in what service they will receive about it all together. But I'm saying it's a simple bonding of hands and feet of craftsmen, that in the event of any legal changes, they're watching what they're saying and if they're opposed to what the government is proposing, it might happen to them that their report won't pass in the Parliament. Then you know what the sanctions are. What I want to say in particular and what was very little about here, and sometimes it was beautiful craftsmanship, which is schooling. The craftsmen used to produce masters, experts, and you in this law practically have no definition at all. And let's not have a mustache, sometimes they were joint working organisations or what they were called experts. You can't say that one of the originals, one of the Unity, one of the Končars did not produce master craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia. But the law clearly defined the conditions under which these children can go to a trade in which thisOUR, and I see no reason why this would not be today in a company and that they were educated there. Because simply craftsmen do not have such means of work especially in the metal-processing and wood industry so that they can teach people, especially I say in the metal-processing industry at that level where they can get away in some companies. But it's superficially placed here, and we keep forgetting that this apprenticeship was something bad. No, the apprenticeship has created great masters in this country and unfortunately we turn around today wherever we want to have fewer and fewer of those masters who can do something concrete. And that's the problem with this law that just didn't get enough of it. Because the system of education for people who know how to do something should be given that it can be done both in companies and in craftsmen, but under clearly defined conditions who can do it and how it can do it, and then it withdraws and amends certain other laws. So the debate between me and my colleague from the Croatian Democratic Community club was about making a better law, not quoting someone or something. I'm glad our attitudes coincided with the Union of craftsmen, because I just think it's something. It's funny to the Minister! Because this government, when someone fights, gets a beating on the back and the craftsman's association and the craftsman's association gets a beating on the back at the time they say something in this law is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40723	We're going to hear the replica of our esteemed colleague, Miss Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've noticed well in your presentation, and I'm here yesterday after we finished talking to some craftsmen and I asked them if they were familiar with this law, that they were, but they all have the same opinion. Is this law made, or does the minister want to manage the HOC? Does HOK want to take away the autonomy of governance? Are they so powerful and smart that they arrange how a HOC will work that I don't say is all bright and craftsmen themselves say it isn't, but they're the ones who pay the chamber contribution and they're the ones who'll solve it among themselves. Instead of taking this law a little better care of education, but of course better dealt with how to ensure better business for craftsmen, how to prevent the closure of craftsmanship. In Zagreb, yesterday I said from Selska to Frankopanska 70 craft shops, in Gundulić's 20. There's gold buyouts opening up and cafes opening up. The old crafts are disappearing. The craftsmen who deal with traditional crafts have no chance of surviving in this kind of two years, but a terrible policy where not only people are on their knees, and craftsmen, especially those who pay their taxes, regularly pay their workers because they cannot sleep unless they pay their workers because they are old, honorable craftsmen and their successors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40725	Replication response, esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sumrak, you see, I did not notice that Minister Milenić had ever thought of a chamber contribution to the Chamber of Law or a public record debate in the Croatian Parliament, it did not occur to him at all. We can mention another minister, let's say Minister Ostojić as far as the Medical Chamber is concerned, the man has not thought at all to propose to the Croatian Parliament that their work and their money be discussed in this House. However, when you talk about closing the crafts, yes, I said in my opening section that the problem of craftsmanship is not the Law on crafts, but simply everything that is happening around us and that has led these people not only to close the crafts but to have no need for scientists. Because they can't feed themselves, let alone have scientists and take care of them. You well remember that famous reform that was there in the '80s when the school students in the economy were abolished. I would suggest to anyone who objects to the HDZ Club for this debate and even the minister to go to the Bavarian Chamber of crafts to see on the spot what the master's exam means and what master's work means. Every craft workshop in Bavaria is proud of the master's work made by their worker or family member to win the title of master. We were so humiliating yesterday in this House talking about the title of master that it was a disaster. The master's title is at a level of more professional training and master's title cannot be obtained by someone who perfectly, practically and theoretically does not rule with what he does. And that's the key problem that government gentlemen don't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40727	Now we'll hear from the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few things to look at so far. Since the freshest ones were the ones that were right before I was going to start with the things I would say was Mr. Shucker, and perhaps as a master of the parliamentary debate some things represented in a way relative to what they are. So, the truth is, VAT and craftsmen are very connected, and therefore this government immediately raised from 80 to 230 thousand kunas to enter the VAT system for Croatian craftsmen the possibility of not being VAT bonds and thus included 25 thousand Croatian craftsmen not having that obligation and that they do not have that debt that burdens them at times when they cannot charge their services because we will remember from the last term there were 45 billion kuna of outstanding claims in Croatia. And on the other hand to be even competitors, which is that when they give a service and they don't have an input VAT, when you don't have a VAT obligation, you can either be more competitive or you can earn more. So 25 thousand craftsmen are already using that benefit, Mr. Shuker. The second thing the Croatian government has also done as far as VAT is concerned is 20 thousand Croatian restaurant hosts have VAT no more than 25%. They're either more competitive or they've got something bigger to earn. So, when we combine these two things, as far as VAT is concerned, Mr. Shucker was right to have a major impact on VAT changes on craftsmen, but a great positive impact. And that is why it is not good to speak because people listen to us and know that directly these 35,000 craftsmen are benefiting directly from changes to VAT legislation. As far as parafiscal duties are concerned, in 2008, a list was published at the Ministry of Finance of parafiscal duties, which said it had 245 duties in Croatia. That's not true. There's a lot more of them. It would have been good if there had been transparency and clarity at the time how burdened Croatian craftsmen and Croatian entrepreneurs were, but there was no. And, of course, in the first year of the term of office, this government immediately began to reduce parafiscal burdens and forests and contributions to forests, contributions to water. So she's done a lot for entrepreneurs and craftsmen again. Says Mr. Shucker, no one's ever lost a house because of a small debt. I am sorry to mention a specific case here, where, precisely because of the tax debt of the 1990s, the Vukic family in Zadar lost their home.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40729	Comrade Shucker, please don't throw you off the bench. Let the minister speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40730	Mr. Schucker recorded a debt or someone who was then a finance minister irrelevantly, and then what should be recorded is the debt and the way it was done in the previous government and left billions of kunas of unpaid claims. So that's the answer that needs to be done? If this is the way to run state finances and comply with Croatian laws, then stand up for it, Mr. Shuker. But unfortunately, it happened. Under this law, this will never happen again. And if one family is to be protected for that reason, I'm satisfied and that's why this law is good. And don't say it's a shame, and it's not gonna make anyone do business and it's got nothing to do with anybody but the state because it has to do with other companies and it doesn't matter and it doesn't want to do business with a craftsman. And why would the business be said by his colleague Maric very well, why would he do business with the d.o.o. for 10 kuna? Same thing. So he'll do business. Unfortunately, given the situation in Croatia in the past 8, 10 years, this rule has been applied. It's more important who you get paid for than who you sell it to. But Mr. Shuker, 45 billion you left behind. Well, that problem didn't happen overnight, it didn't happen. 45 billion outstanding claims were never done, problems solved. And that's a serious problem. I agree, this uncertainty is enormous with craftsmen and entrepreneurs and for this reason we have asked for the prolongation of VAT charges to be extended according to the established or charged bill, and in the VAT Act it will be defined by 2015, and I am convinced that we will find a quality solution by then for all both small entrepreneurs and craftsmen related to payment. So there are things this government does, unfortunately, huge problems that you haven't solved. A few months ago, you gave craftsmen opportunities that were in trouble and that have debts like the Vukic family in Zadar, to redefine to pay off their debts to get their interest off. Do you know how much interest it's been since '97? In the meantime, you were a minister for seven years, growing from 92 to 288 thousand kuna, the debt grew. No, you could've passed a law that would've made it possible for that family.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40731	I now warn you, in this House, no one can speak to anyone who doesn't get a word of it. Don't throw kindly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40732	So what could the former government have done, and what did this government do? To enable this family to pay off its debt, not to charge it 8 years of interest on interest, and to make that debt 288,000 kuna at the end. So that's the problem. When you're not doing something, the problem is even bigger. And there are things we have to call a real name. You can't accuse this government of not wanting help. Well, we've brought a debt payment, we've now passed a law where people won't go home. As for the chamber contribution, look, I won't comment on what my colleagues are doing, but I'll tell you what I'm doing. I've seen that the debt per chamber contribution is over 300 million kuna, which means people don't pay, they don't want to pay. Is there a problem or to pretend that there isn't, to say that everything's okay, that people pay it with a thick pay and that in some way this system is ideal. I didn't define how much a chamber contribution would be, I said the maximum possible limit. Since it is a monopoly, they can determine that the chamber's contribution is one thousand kuna a month. And then what? How can he not have members? It's mandatory under the law to have members. What are we talking about? So it's a monopoly. There's got to be some standard. I didn't say how much you'd contribute. Make 10 kunas, no one happier than me and a craftsman. So please try to explain as it is and not as you would like. And as far as politics is concerned, there is no ambition for my ministry or for me, nor for the government to interfere at all with the internal relations of the HOC. The members and presidents of the HOC are from some other parties. So that our ambition was not and will not be to be present in such organizations. Let the craftsmen choose. And it's amazing that someone's accusing me of wanting to control the HOC in a way that I'm allowing all members to vote, it's supernatural powers when I can get 83,000 people to vote for. So let's be serious. Much easier has been created so far who will be president of the HOK and the POK and at the city level, when you see these are a lot of politically active people just not from my party because my party has never had the ambition to participate. But there are a lot of people from your party who are presidents of the Chamber of crafts and of the HSS, etc. So please don't say that this government is doing something, and in fact you've been doing it for many years and how it's possible for 83,000 craftsmen to influence who will be elected. I just remember the choices before, people were drawn to the sleeve that you around the Parliament are after after, look, we don't want to participate in this, but we don't want to have 20 people who are changing, and 74% of the members never get in touch with the chamber at all. And these are the motives of this change. And when you have a monopoly you have to have certain limitations and you have to have I would say system, standard for all the same. So you can't have a membership fee or a contribution in one part of Croatia 3 times less than the other. For what? Because someone bought a luxury space and now anyone who opens a trade in his town has to pay for 10 years because he has a big loan. Come on, why would that be? I really don't understand it. And when we look at all these changes that we've made, we've made only out of transparency and it works better tomorrow. And as for communication, colleague twilight was saying something, I'm here today after this debate in 3 I have a meeting with two regional chambers and all these communications and direct communication with the regional chambers are excellent. And we said yesterday here and in the debate some chambers support this law so that there's a lot of stakeholders and a HOK and 20 chambers but the most important are 83,000 craftsmen and I don't think this is good for them I wouldn't even suggest it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40733	I thank the ministers. We now have a reported breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since you all know that you insist on talking about the subject and yesterday you warned some of my colleagues from the club when it didn't pass you what they were saying, so you should now and the minister warned, he went off topic and you hurt, please, slowly, don't be hasty and nervous. This Regulation shall enter The speaker may speak, paragraph 1. The speaker may only talk about the subject under the established agenda. Since the minister, if he hadn't called on me, then he would have understood that he was saying everything he was saying, however, he was talking about something I didn't mention. And you had him, if he had the same status as the MPs, if you warned your colleagues from the HDZ Club yesterday then you should have warned the minister, he could say it in his exposé, in the final word, but if he calls on me then he could only talk about what I was saying. So, some things I haven't talked about at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40735	The Rules of Procedure have not been broken because the minister spoke about the subject, but I confess I have violated the Rules of Procedure, but one other provision of the Rules of Procedure. A provision of Article 216(3) which states that the representative is given a warning if he or she interferes with the speaker in other ways with his or her incursions. What you did, I just kindly asked you to stop doing it and I actually had to give you a warning. And because I am bound by the Rules of Procedure, who says to me, "The agent is told a warning if he or she disturbs the speaker in any way or in any way, what you have done." I didn't give you a warning, and in this regard I violated the Rules of Procedure. There's no discussion with the president's desk. ... I didn't give you a warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't give you a warning and I broke the Rules of Procedure. There's no discussion with the table. ... No, it's the rules of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now let's go, now let's go to the replicas of the minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Shucker, you're first in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40736	So, I'm going to replicate exactly what Mr. Minister said, he's shown total ignorance about the VAT billing. Because those who are not in the VAT system pay everything they buy at this rate of 25% tax and do not have the right to deduct a pre-tax. So the electrical energy that you've raised 27%, and the gas that you've raised 37% up and at the price of heating that you've raised 37% up. So they paid 25% of the value added tax neatly to that. And that warning they don't have the right to refuse. It's the only thing they don't charge VAT when they make an account. So don't say that you're someone... Another story, as regards the liberation in catering, etc., so tourist accommodation and nutrition at the organised tourist accommodation VAT rate reduced to 10% back in 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in the overall catering activity, what you have reduced to 10% seems much less than what was reduced before. And as for the outstanding claims, look, colleague Maras, in this House of Commons, the 2002 Law was passed on outstanding claims during your then coalition government, at the time it was 22 billion. Count to 22 and nothing is settled, count to 22 billion average tight interest from 15% until last year, so you'll see what that amount is. And in the end, you didn't reduce liquidity by 7 billion, but you did administratively overwrite 7 billion, by what criteria and we'll talk about it one day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40737	Minister Maras responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40738	Thank you very much, Mr. Shuker, for explaining more that they are in Croatia... If you were responsible for that, I would give you as much space as possible to say that because Croatian citizens know best how to pay in Croatia and how you contributed to that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a matter of fact, you have now said that you have reduced liquidity during the HDZ's term of office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well done, here we go. Let it be noted that Mr. Shuker has claimed that he has reduced indifference from 22 to 45 billion. It's a new bill for... Economic, for economic... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So to cut by 22... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40739	Comrade Shuker, just a little bit, just a little minister. Comrade Shuker, let me now give you a heads-up, based on Article 216(3), and stop tossing to the minister. ... No, I'm here to protect the Rules of Procedure and order in the Assembly. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Shuker, don't put yourself at risk to give you a warning by taking away your word if you continue with this kind of behavior. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I beg you kindly. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, after we heard that it's coming down from 22 to 45 I'd just like a few more things. And I'd like to warn Mr. Shucker about craftsmen, quite often it's about service activities where people don't have input VAT, but most services are work. So there's no VAT and... It's a big benefit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if that's the case, you don't have to explain it to them because people are checking out of the system themselves. Well, you don't think someone would do themselves any harm, so they're going to log out of the VAT system. Well, I guess that doesn't make people so naive that they're going to do themselves any harm by checking out and getting the idea that the government wants them bad, so now they want to punish themselves. Look, they recognized the benefits, they checked out, 25 thousand people will log out of the VAT system. And another thing about catering. So it's very exact data, it's over a billion kuna, no accommodation, we're talking about catering activities, we're talking about catering facilities, restaurants, etc., I lost 40 seconds of president in this warning debate, can I?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40741	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40742	I lost 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40743	Please, if you're out of time, stop making excuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40744	No, no, but it took 40 seconds for you to give a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40745	Comrade Maras, fellow Maras, if you're out of time, stop talking. The second line is a colleague of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear ministers, colleague Maras, you were talking about parafiscal intrusions and you mentioned, I don't know why this parafiscal imposition that applies to the BOX is always about the woods. You keep mentioning it and, of course, you've already reduced it twice already, regardless of what it once was, and that's one of the few taxes that raises funds from which the law accurately determines what their purpose is, and that's guarding, editing the forest, and then editing the forest infrastructure, it's demining. So when it comes to fires, the arrangements of forest roads are now smaller, so it's less income. We have to say that the biological recovery is compromised, and we also have problems with the fire communities. So you didn't cut or something here to show prosperity through it all but to reduce, subtract and in reality endanger it. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40747	Minister Maras responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40748	Thank you very much, Mrs. twilight. All right, you can still argue that it's bad that we've reduced the parafiscal imposition to craftsmen and entrepreneurs. All right, our policy is to relieve, your policy was to burden and so we'll keep going. And explain very clearly to people that it is bad that last year we reduced their burdens through Croatian forests and that it is bad because now the craftsman in Ilica pays a contribution to Croatian forests. If that's HDZ policy, I don't mind, but it'll never be SDP's policy. SDP's policy will be to reduce parafiscal burdens, reduce contributions to forests, water, monumental rent, all of these not 245 wrongly mentioned in 2008 at the Ministry of Finance but much, much more parafiscal burdens and the Croatian government will thus behave. It is important for us to disburse the economy so that we can work, and you try to impose it and it is your legitimate right and HDZ as you have done all these last 8 years while you have been in power, to be as much of a burden on the Croatian economy as possible. I cannot, unfortunately, influence your policy in any way, but I can influence Croatian citizens to choose what is better for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40749	Now the replica will be presented by a respected colleague, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm talking about. I'm just getting attached to what Mr. Minister said when it comes to parafiscal intrusions, as far as the Croatian forests are concerned. You see, Mr. Minister, yes, you have reduced or reduced or reduced by 180 million, here you say it will decrease by another 200 million. But what we got with that, with that cut, we got nothing. Namely OKFŠ and the obligation that every legal person is obliged to pay for Croatian forests, these are large companies within Croatia, these are huge companies that came from outside, and you know who pays for it, wood industry. You are even after that first reduction, and this will happen now, prices in the Croatian forests are immediately raised by 15% and direct damage has occurred in the wood industry. So one wood industry that employs today the largest number of employees, which we need to help in every way and any other way with various incentives, we end the KEFŠ forests, such as the government's contribution to entrepreneurs. Which entrepreneurs? I repeat again, to all those who have come to Croatia, and in the end the price increase has immediately followed the wood industry and the wood industry has paid for it and will pay again when you end these other 200 million, and everyone else will be looking forward to it, and the wood industry that is in the most difficult position, and we have no idea that this is the wood industry that can hire all today who are at the employment office, which is the most, and we do not encourage that branch, but here we are simply doing damage because once again it will happen as the first price increase in Croatian forests towards the wood industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40751	And this replica corresponds to Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40752	So after Mrs. twilight, I got it right, HDZ is pushing for an increase in the contribution to the forest. ... So good, okay, your right. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you are seeking to increase your contribution to the forest for all Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen, your right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But you know how the problem of Croatian forests and the management of Croatian forests will be solved, and it has already begun to be resolved so that some entrepreneurs get the construction of Croatian forests and wages. You should pay what you take over from the Croatian Forests and settle all those debts that were those years ago. Probably since you know well what I'm talking about in this business, there were a lot of entrepreneurs who owed a lot of money for raw materials and didn't pay for Croatian forests, and those who wanted to pay, who wanted to produce, couldn't get the raw materials. Here was the system in the Croatian forests. Croatian forests have also worked a lot with marketing agencies which we can read in the newspapers. So when all these things are eliminated, when it's done, I would say order, and when things are agreed that those who produce get raw materials, that they create added value, that they don't buy or pay, I'm going to say again to the non-payments that were neatly obtained raw materials, worked, remained in debt, and are now in pre-determined deals, too, and that gave them raw materials. Did you ask that as the HDZ representative in the previous term, which is why you are still delivering to people who do not pay for the raw materials. Have you ever asked that question, you haven't. Well, when a company functions so normally that it does not exist, but when the company is restructured then it is normal to cut off the economy and continue to dissipate the economy and that it will not endanger either the function of the forest or our industry will be compromised. Industry will only benefit because those who produce will receive raw materials, not repurchasers, and will not pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40753	The opportunity to replicate is now being given to a respected colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40754	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Minister, when it comes to politics, it's the HDSSB's policy to support a reduction in parafiscal burdens. As we supported the reduction of the fees for the BOX of those amendments of the law, we called on you at that time, and we are calling for this imposition to be fully abolished, and for the Croatian forests to be restructured in such a way that they actually become profitable because this one parafiscal imposition itself remains a quarterly obligation to monitor income and quarterly payment. Therefore, the imposition was actually reduced by half, but it remained, in fact, an obligation for both hairdressers and cosmetics and carpenters, and I don't know who to keep track of incomes from and that the quarterly payment of parafiscal constraint with which it had nothing to do with it. And restructuring of Croatian forests is also a job that we have not noticed for now that began to happen during the term of office of this government, and there is actually the resource in which these 200 or 400 million kunas should be placed because there are reserves in the Croatian forests. When it comes to the remarks of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the restriction of chamber contributions, we also supported you because we believe that this time of crisis when Croatian citizens, Croatian society, the Croatian economy reduces wages, incomes are reduced, people are fired, that all chambers really need to reduce their chamber contributions, limit them because it can't happen that the members of the chamber are failing, and that some chambers, various chambers are building new buildings, that they are going on luxury trips, that large diaries are not only part of Croatia's crafts, but a whole series of interesting chambers. And now I'm saying something for myself that I've said before. I think that various different experiments we have tried in this country, some more, some less successful, so when we have abolished mandatory membership in Croatia's agricultural chamber I think we should try an experiment, abolish mandatory membership in all chambers, try a year, two or during this recession and see what happens, whether there will be any negative effects at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40755	And this replica corresponds to Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40756	Thank you very much for your comment, and I'm glad you recognize the intentions that are not like we said that we interfere in internal affairs at all, but we want simple standards and transparency. And I am glad that you support the government's policy in terms of unloading the economy, because I was already worried after the HDZ club that there are more clubs in the Croatian Parliament that want us to put more pressure on the Croatian economy. So this government decided to dissipate and reduce the tax burdens both tax and parafisculated to the Croatian economy. That's how we're gonna keep going. And I'm glad that the HDZ club is lonely in those demands and well if it wasn't in the Assembly, I'd say it'd be as offensive as most clubs' attitude. So, it's good that we have great support in this assembly clubs, that we continue to reduce chamber contributions and contributions to forests and other parafiscal duties. I can tell you that by 15.6. the government will come out with a proposal to cut not only that, but the rest not only of the forest, but also other parafiscal burdens and reductions because we want to relieve the economy. And we really find it illogical that a hairdresser or a urinal or a carpenter in Zagreb or in any other city is paying a contribution to the forest. What's normal for HDZ colleagues is that I can't influence it. But this government wants to do everything to make Croatian craftsmen and entrepreneurs as little as possible. And I agree with one more thing that you said about the restructuring and business of the Croatian forests that they must go faster. So, if we had to figure things out the way it's supposed to be, that companies that collect raw materials can't get it, that first I'd have to say meet the needs of those who create high added value. Unfortunately, of course I can't get paid, but I'm afraid that's not how it's been until now. Croatian forests must do it faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40757	Here's another replica from the HDZ Club and the respected Djuro Popiach.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40758	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary. In 2010, the Economic Recovery Programme reduced parafiscal burdens for Croatian forests, water, monumental rent, tourist community, municipal contributions and others. So, you didn't make it up, you just kept doing what we did. So already then in 2010, the OCFŠ was reduced by 25%. The chamber's contribution has been reduced by 25. The total effect of this in 2010 was 400 million kuna less burdens for the Croatian economy. You, therefore, have continued in order and some of these burdens have been further reduced and that's fine. But don't say we didn't do it because it's a lie, it's just not true. Furthermore, your methods and indifference resolution mechanism is the write-off of debts, the write-off of tax debts measured in billions, and the improvement has not happened. In front of a bankruptcy deal today, you don't have to pay anyone. And indirectly those who believe these companies are closing down their companies today because of your law. Minus 40 and a few billion to 30 and a few billion is simple mathematics – you deleted and forgiven tax debts, and you did not improve payment. Next, no one has ever entered so deep into the internal arrangements of some professional association like you do with this law. Why don't you do it with a tourist community, say? It earns more than 500 million kuna contributions. It's a much bigger burden than this. It means you don't do it with the bar and all the similar chambers. So you open with this and the next process. It's probably gonna start happening, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40759	Thank you very much. Minister Maras responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40760	Thank you very much. Yes, the fact is that it was the economic recovery plan not only in 2010 but also in 2009, Prime Minister Sanader, the prime minister of the government then and HDZ presented 10 points of recovery in 2009 that resulted in a drop of almost 6%. 2010 is also the Economic Recovery Plan. How much did you say? 400 million kunas that also resulted in an economic downturn of over 2%. And in total, so all the efforts the HDZ government has made in those four years have cost us over 10% of GDP. So please don't help, no. Please don't help, because the less, the less the economy would suffer. And when you add up 400 million kuna just to tell you that the reduction in contributions and these parafiscal burdens that we made in the first year is over 3 billion kuna. Now, only if you're going to explain to me as a colleague that 400 million kuna is more than 3 billion, then perhaps you've contributed more to the economy. Oh, no? So on that side, this government is doing everything it can, and yet once again, I won't get tired of explaining that I have no intensity to interfere with internal relations, which is evident from my party in any of the chambers in this way no one urinates or wants or has ambition. Because it's impossible to influence 83,000 craftsmen. How can someone from the government do that? So don't say it at all. And if you also want to make it possible not to reduce the chamber contribution then say the same. So good with Croatian forests you want the chamber contribution for Croatian craftsmen to increase. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40761	In this round of replication, the last line is respected counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40762	Thank you very much. Minister Maras, when it comes to general economic categories, cannot understand the need to constantly bind one party to the economic category. If we're talking about tax debt, I wrote an article that shows exactly in months and years how the tax debt took place. But while you insist so much, I am reluctant to speak to the minister of one of your party, who was named after the idea of one of the only ones to be in charge of the Republic of Croatia abroad and to deposit that money with commercial banks abroad in Croatia, in his term of office, has short-indebted, i.e. during his term of office, the tax debt increased by 15 billion kuna. Just so much for the tax debt. You solve this debt by introducing a new process called tax amnesty. And under cover and excuse and good intentions and to help certain businessmen and entrepreneurs with this tax amnesty, you are doing the biggest injustice to the economy. Those who have not paid, and you reward the debtors, and by doing so, those who have worked hard against them for a lifetime, it is because you have given them unfair competition by forgiving the millions' debts to those who compete with them. How the taxi, for example in Zagreb Radiotaxis, will be competitive with Cammeo when you forgive him 6.7 billion kuna or millions or it doesn't matter what. He doesn't pay contributions, he doesn't pay workers, he doesn't pay taxes. And when you say that you do not interfere with the HOK, Article 38(3) says the procedure and way of electing the president will be determined by a general act, with the previous consent of the Minister in charge of crafts. This doesn't exist anywhere, in any law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40763	This replica is also addressed by Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40764	There are, unfortunately, two moments in Croatia when it has escalated indifference. The first one was in 2000, the non-payment of the tax debt and the second was now, so we came into this situation not 15 billion but the tax debt was over 50 billion kuna. I agree with you, it's bad for society, bad for the economy, but although in these pre-profit deals, the state is not the only participant with both banks and other creditors who participate in this and has defined the law as to how to achieve agreement on the reprogramme or forgiveness of part of the debt. So there's something called rules and it's called systems. You don't just say goodbye. But I agree with you that it's not good for debt to accumulate, but now you tell me that the bigger problem in solving debts or allowing them to accumulate? Unfortunately, both HDZ governments have led to these debts being accumulated. Well, it's as if we're lucky that over 50 billion tax dollars aren't charged. What some could pay, some couldn't pay. So we see how people testify in courtrooms and talk after you've answered one address right away, your little tax debt was easier to endure than it would have been. So I'm not saying that, you're told by entrepreneurs in Croatian courts. As if we are happy that these debts are not charged and that someone has allowed such a mess to work in Croatia. Well, I'd be the happiest, of course, if people were wondering why I was paying, and now somebody hasn't paid for years, and now you have to go bankrupt, and that's it. And then more people are complaining about why we're going bankrupt, telling us from the opposition that we want to destroy companies, which is a company that doesn't exist on the market, which doesn't pay wages, but is mature to go bankrupt and not make a problem. So whoever made the problem now suggests it's bad that we're trying to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40765	Now we're going to continue with an individual debate. Well, that's the word I give to my esteemed colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to continue my debate where my colleague Shucker stopped, and it's about education and craftsman training. In these two days, the least we've heard about it, and here is exactly the foundation and one big problem that is really evident today in craftsmanship. In fact, we have to worry about the fact that there are fewer children who opt for craftsmanship. Today we're discussing, and yesterday we've been discussing, the craftsmanship and the government is trying to say how to help craftsmen, but they're not thinking about what's going to happen in a few years when we're not going to have any trades. We don't have a roofer now, we don't have a carpenter, we're almost out of builders. Not to mention the meditative part of the crafts. And why is that? In these 20 articles of this law relating to education and training of the minister, you have not touched anything at all. And in the meantime, since the last amendments to this law, we have also adopted a strategy of vocational education, we have brought about changes and I will say in the basic Law on Education and Education, we have passed the Law on Professional Education, we have established, I am sorry that the minister does not listen, we have established the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, and thus we have encouraged a way to start thinking about vocational education. In Croatia, everything is neither a right nor an economy nor a humanist science. I think the least we care about is this segment of craftsmanship. And that is why I recommend to you ministers and you saw it yourself yesterday and you admitted it but I recommend you sit down and the Croatian Chamber of crafts and you as the Minister of crafts and science and education but also the Agency for Professional Education, sit down together and analyze these twenty articles further. Something else came up, appeared in other activities, the possibility of opening crafts that had never been present in crafts. We recently passed the Nanny Act. Nannys can open a craftsman. Who will further be in charge of them, for their control? Yesterday on the board, we discussed another law on the Preschool Education and Education Act, and there it will allow breeders, teachers to open playrooms again through crafts. So that's one new question again, it's not all what we call a traditional twist, and now we have some new activities that appear in the craft. It seems to me that after this time in which we have a training for craftsmanship and in the reform of vocational education, I have warned of one problem, and this is the problem of doing the practical part of teaching in craftsmen or other legal persons as defined in the law. We set up, set high criteria for licensing craft workshops. And as much as we're trying to tell these same people that we're trying to make their business easier, we haven't given them any motivation to conduct practical classes to get students into craft workshops. In practice it seems that way to you, you must come and pray to a craftsman if he is an acquaintance of yours, a friend to receive a student to practice. Why? Because it really has to do what's right, I'm not against it, meet all the conditions and criteria from business to equipment and to people who are going to conduct teaching. That's why our craftsmen barely, and that's what we've heard from these two days keeping their business. They barely have one or two employees to pay, so they can maintain themselves, let alone other scientists. When they sign that famous contract of teaching that there are certain obligations both craftsmen and scientists in that contract, but often you find it in those contracts now because it is the only way that a craftsman from these obligations is to fence another note, a clause below where he says he cannot satisfy the article, I don't know, which speaks of the need to provide the student, which is necessary, in practical part, that he must be provided with a warm meal, that he must be provided with transport. Unfortunately, our craftsmen can't do that. We tried to follow so - called craftsmanship in this way. Bavarian share of schooling, we tried to take a picture of it, but apparently we haven't been able to do it all these years because we haven't provided the craftsman with what fellow Schuker was now saying about what the Bavarian Chamber, the craftsman's chamber, means, but what that model means is doing practical teaching. I would recommend it, and I have knowledge that our vocational schools have very good conditions to practice. So I think it's time for you to sit down with the Professional Education Agency and change Article 55i to say that secondary vocational schools can perform a practical part of the training program here, provided that the majority of the program is performed in craftsmen or legal persons. Believe that our vocational schools of some crafts workshops have far better conditions for performing practical classes than for one part of craftsmen. Sit down, think along with the agency, the HOK can change here. Yesterday, you said the HGK didn't suggest anything about the new education, and I say no matter what you say the HDZ Club keeps referring to the HGK proposals. I support as someone who has long worked in vocational education and this change in Article 63 for which the HOK is also advocated, which is to combine the final work and the assistant exam. In fact, we've given students who are educated in craftsmanship the task of having final work at school, that's kind of their final let's say according to that old senior degree's work and then passing an assistant exam, and that's just a ticket for their possible opening of the crafts. It's being conducted in the same art workshop, it's being conducted in the same workshop at a professional school. Two documents, one school issue, one HOK issue. And now I see that the HOC has come to realize that it is good to combine the final work and the auxiliary exam in one exam which is good for both the student and those who conduct. Normally, along with joint intervention and normal work together on this, both schools and masters, where the student goes to practice and normal influence of both the Ministry and the Agency for Professional Education and the HGK. And that is why I propose indeed, and I must say that some of the terms in this law are obsolete to really bring these 20 articles of this Law on crafts into line with a new strategy, to comply with the laws on vocational education, to connect together the professional education agencies and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which has departments for education and I know the strong departments for education and training. And once again sit down and facilitate both Croatian craftsmen and vocational schools. And that they do in some way motivate young people to opt for craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40767	Thank you. Next is the replica exchange. The show begins with a respected colleague named Djurdzica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40768	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Roksandić, I am pleased that you have dedicated your entire debate... education that is very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all of ours so far have been in reality focused on it. You have noticed well and it is true that what should be relieved of craftsmen and small businesses especially in conditions where they take into teaching new children. It was necessary to relieve it and transport and a warm meal and insurance because indeed craftsmen are unable to finance it, especially those smaller crafts, old crafts and you have well touched the questions and... when we talked about it in our discussions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course they told us again that we were against everything. And we're not, nor against it, of course we're not because we know what the HDZ government has done to reduce. Here's a colleague who just spoke these parafiscal duties. However, they watched the reflex was all of it, and they knew what it was for. So here's the thing about education, and they're going to talk about this, for example. One part of this KEFSH went for demining. Very many children, so I have to tell these young people who will go still travel to their school from their home to the woods, roads and roads that are under mines. If everything goes away like that and they don't, and the funds aren't in the budget, it means when those kids will definitely get to their school, to their kindergarten, or to their other vocational school, or to their boss as they call them, or to the master at whom they teach. And that's why I'm so sorry that the minister's gone now and that they keep attacking us that we're against some things and we're not. Just now, a fellow drinker said what was done at the time of the government. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40769	Replica reply, esteemed Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40770	Thank you. Oh, that's right, Comrade twilight, you've noticed that well. In fact, education is the foundation of everything and we always kind of ignore it. We ignore that there are just some parafiscal intrusions, and the purpose of these burdens is for education. You've noticed well that we've reduced all resources for decentralised functions. Soon the schools will be really on their knees, they won't have for basic material conditions, let alone to allow these students to develop through the equipment of workshops through better conditions. You also noticed well, and I was talking at the beginning about deficiting professions. You can't say that the Croatian Chamber of crafts does not try to motivate students. They are working very hard, they even grant scholarships for deficiting occupations, and even units of local self-government, some cities, regional self-government, counties scholarship deficits. Unfortunately, for well - known reasons that I have instructed in the discussion, children find it difficult to decide these professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40771	Now let's listen to the replica of respected colleague Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues, Roksandic, if the cry of craftsmen is neglected, who say this law will devastate the profession, if they unfortunately assess that the consequences could be, this law 30% of the crafts being extinguished further, this is indeed a major danger and cause of concern because this figure in the employment office could be further deepened. But there is also a great danger of what you were talking about, which is the quality of the services provided and, consequently, the protection of consumers. In that part, it is also important to educate quality and professional people, in which our vocational schools have proved themselves and proved themselves. And in that part, one major danger is also kind of being monitored to say these legal persons who might be dealing with them are not necessarily professionally trained persons as far as I've read and craftsmen have to. But another danger, that there will be no need for these vocational schools at all, during the extra time because our leaders of the self-government bar have made such immense efforts that such vocational schools in the middle of us in Križevci or Koprivnica, I speak my own local example, the efforts of the immeasurable have been made to make such high-quality experts thus producing will not be necessary. And as a result, that figure will continue to grow in the employment office. That's where I see one great danger. And of course, there will be no additional carpenters or roof covers or all of the craft activities you've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40773	Here's Ivanka Roksandić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40774	Here's a quick answer. I agree with my colleague Milinkovic that he should listen to craftsmen. They are the ones who will best say whether this law is right or wrong but it is ours to warn and it is our duty, we are still the people's representatives to do so. Look, there's been this problem in vocational schools for years. Unfortunately, vocational schools have been producing students for employment institutions for a few years back. And if we make it impossible for them to open their crafts and facilitate the opening of the crafts now these legal changes will be really young people at the employment office. But I'm worried about something else, talking to my colleagues in vocational schools for a long time, you can really see that despite what you're co-financed and helping through the scholarship of deficiting professions, that young people are not opt for these traditional professions because of the different trade fairs. Apparently, out of such occupations, a colleague of the twilight said this yesterday best on a personal example, such as furrows, I mentioned a roofer, a carpenter, for which the names were almost lost, we forgot that there were these occupations. I know that technologies are developing and that some occupations won't be necessary, but there are still some segments of production, some segments of society that we won't be able to implement through some new technologies. Old crafts are often used to help some other activities. You have a rebuilding of old traditional houses that you won't be able to do without one carpenter, you have a mass of such occupations. And because you noticed professional schools are well equipped, we need to help them through this law, and through this law to make them better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40775	The desire to replicate was also reported by counterpart Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Roksandić, you have actually pointed to a whole series of problems that probably everyone wants to solve, from the Chamber of crafts, the Ministry of All in Croatia. The problem of vocational education is present, and it could really be said that there is one trend that students do not enroll in such schools, but it does not seem to me to be a rule. And that's where I, for example, couldn't agree with you in general because where vocational schools were equipped, where they were going in accordance with time, where in some way a climate was created that those children, these young people would gain the right to call and professions, that they would learn trade and work, there they were enrolling. And on such examples, we really need to learn, and on such examples, we need to develop further this system of education, and surely that this law must strengthen that part, this chapter, because without it there is basically no future. So if we continue to allow all schools to open up in Croatia, that there will be no practice specialized, well arranged, that there will be no strategy of craftsmanship, then this will be happening to us and then the students will today tour with that queen I once toured in the same workshop now in a new one in the Križevci, but until two years ago, they have been touring what I did before 35 years ago. So how can we expect to get kids into those schools? But if they're going to be builders and they're going to build some kind of facility that's going to stay like prom, then they're going to sign up, that's exactly what's going on. So the Chamber of Commerce is working on it and is asking for such cabinets and practices to be constructed and strategically defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40777	Thank you. Answer, Ivanka Roxandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40778	I agree with my colleague Hrg, but I may not have had time to say everything in my debate. There are excellent vocational schools that also have centres for new technologies, which I said I can do very high-end practice. But you opened up a problem that I also touched in my discussion. I said that this law must also be brought into line with the strategy for the development of vocational education, that both the Croatian Chamber of crafts and the Ministry of crafts must cooperate with the Professional Education Agency because a new Law on Professional Education has been adopted. And it's not all as black as you've had the impression of my debate, I just wanted to point out that there are problems and that together you should sit at the table because these 20 articles that are actually prescribed completely from the old law. This part of education has not been touched by anything and therefore yesterday it seems to me that the minister even told me that there are opportunities to include the Professional Education Agency as well in addition, I will say in addition to these articles of the law relating to schooling.../Convornica excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40779	The opportunity to replicate now gets colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40780	Thank you very much. My colleague Roksandić, you have rightly noticed on behalf of the promoter there was little, very little and almost no word about what is most important in this law in the HDZ Club because the future of craftsmanship and those who will apply this law depends on the education of people who will either open new crafts tomorrow or take over the basis of the provision of this law of the family crafts. So that was a little bit of a talk. There was a lot of things in that famous SDP rhetoric you're better at living just that you're not aware of. This is what the promoter wants to point out to us all the time, but we here want to keep talking about the problems of craftsmanship, about nothing else, about the fact that certain economic branches, in fact certain occupations will simply be extinct, that certain interests are based on certain changes in recent years in the Republic of Croatia, in some areas they are still very attractive, in some areas they do not need at all. So that's something that needs to be discussed in this law, but we've heard very little about it, we've heard a lot of things and even denying a bunch of facts and a very strange mathematics, but well, that's the right of whoever's talking. However, the real problem of Croatia, the real problem of young people is, and this can be seen from certain craftsmanships where, in some years for enrolment for these craftsmen, it took almost an average of over 4.5 for hairdressers and some others for a simple reason and now we return to the chamber, because the chambers with competitions and with a number of activities and activities attracted young people that this interest was attractive and therefore they came upon it. And when we talk about education and the formation of the chamber, so there's that di, there's got to be symbiosis in this law, and unfortunately there's not, and unfortunately, the proposer doesn't want to accept it at all. He doesn't want to talk like that. He'd be here dealing with craftsmen, with MPs denying some things that just happened... That the world doesn't start and end with someone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40781	Reply Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40782	Oh, my fellow Shuker, you've done a really good job with this cut. From what I've been meaning to say, I'm sorry the minister keeps saying that the HDZ club doesn't want a good turn. However, we want a very big twist and we started from what I think and why I was discussing schooling, first of all because I've been in this area and I've been working for a long time at a vocational school and I know exactly when we took on this model that was difficult. You also well noticed that the popularization of crafts is also through various competitions conducted by the Croatian Chamber of crafts and schools. However, there will also be another problem here that I have not touched in the debate, and it applies first and foremost to what this law now allows and put into this law, which is to carry out secondary occupations. You mentioned the hairdressers. So just talking to people craftsmen, they tell the hairdressers what's going to happen to them. They have to meet many conditions and business and quality and are suitable for the quality of services and space and not to list everything, and those who will do so through their side interest will be able to do so eventually in their home or come to me. And there arises ministers worried about one part of these service professions that they will in some way be damaged or better explained to people or give them some security.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40783	The last line in this round is a respected colleague, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Roksandić, I agree with your presentation especially in the section that talks about the importance of education for craftsmanship and that it is actually some base from which we need to tomorrow and we can have good craftsmen. I'll talk about it a little bit more in my individual discussion. But now only two details. You talked about how it was necessary and the Law on craftsmanship to regulate relations between craftsmen and students who were in practice absolutely agreeing with it, they talked about the difficulties of craftsmen. However, children or students who are in practice, who in a large number of cases do not actually do what they should do in practice, which is training in crafts, but are doing all the time all three years who are in practice in the craftsmen of auxiliary jobs and jobs that actually have nothing to do with the craft itself, or what they should learn through that practice. And that's why we have a problem with some kids finishing their education in craftsmanship that they don't actually know how to do work for which they're educated. In some of the discussions we had before, there was even a lot further discussion about child abuse and in some ways of exploiting them, and that is another aspect that needs to be solved in relation to the relationship between craftsmen and students who are in practice through this Law on craftsmanship. The second thing, I agree with you, is that we need to combine the final work and the auxiliary exam. Here, the assistant exam is introduced as one step because it is shown on one side of mistrust with schools, i.e. they are conducting training, and their purpose is the same - to show that the student has the basic skills and skills to carry out a certain job that we do not speak formal terms. The Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools provides for a way of completing secondary education and should be applied in an adequate way to the education of craftsmen. We can arrange for this final exam to be part of the chamber, part of the school. However, we must not add obstacles to the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40785	The replica corresponds to the respected Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Lugaric. I'm glad we agreed. In fact, we want both education and this vocational education well. You said I was talking about the difficulties a craftsman faces when receiving students for practice. That's true, but I didn't want to ignore the students. So I kept warning and all the time encouraged the minister to sit together the Croatian Chamber of crafts and the Professional Education Agency, to sit at the table together and discuss these relations with each other, as well as the control of what students do on the practical part of craft workshops. If you remember I also tried to suggest that article 55 is changed in its item 4. and to allow school workshops which are now very high and well equipped to carry out practical teaching and to be allowed after being licensed by the Croatian Chamber of crafts and said yes, you are equipped to carry out certain practical teaching and how to enable them to conduct practical teaching. I think we'll avoid many misunderstandings. Why was I talking about craftsmen? Yet today is the theme of craftsmanship, yet today it is the theme of those who are engaged in craftsmanship. And I say again I repeat in this law we imposed obligations, many obligations on craftsmen when receiving students in practical teaching but we did not make it easy, we gave them no incentive, and even financial incentive from either the ministry, either from the Croatian Chamber of crafts that will motivate them to take two, three or five students into practice. I think we should work together on this, but we also need to worry about whether the programme of practical teaching is implemented consistently and fully in favour of students.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40787	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. His right to address parliament will now be used by counterpart Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here, in the second day of this debate, I will try to really sum up some of the facts about this law, in fact, taxing out the open topics that should be considered in any case, and given the length of this debate, given that the agenda point is very nearly our new Rules of Procedure, although we should consider in this segment purely due to our operational nature that we might consider more and more of the Rules of Procedure and relations there, to return the debate in the good part to the committees because the debate on this bill was really good on the Committee on Economy and there was much less politics, much more of keeping the subject. What is good in any case, the minister who introduced a positive spirit, the energy bravely and openly entered this story around his ministry, was obviously also transferred to this assembly, and perhaps the consequence of our staying a little longer. Good measures are in any case VAT. It is mentioned that the HAMAG report will actually best show what is new inspired into entrepreneurship and crafts, if today I believe that we will also come to this debate. What's good about this law? Listed multiple times, transfer of pensions, transfer of crafts, departure easier in retirement, etc., etc. I wouldn't talk about it too much. It is good that the law goes in two readings, it is good that all those who have read the Report of the Committee on Law are said to need certain nomotechnical repairs. It is also good from this discussion that we have heard from colleagues, especially this harmony with science and education in this area. Mrs. Lugaric, colleague Lugaric will talk about it. So it's good to see in two readings and find this obviously very, very important law. There are also some technical shortcomings, let's say the article 53 isn't finished but I don't go into detail. As I have announced 4 open issues in which I am asking both the Minister and his team to consider, which have been revealed both in this debate and in the debate of clubs and in the debate of individual representatives, so let us see the pluses and minuses, solutions to ensure an equal match, consumer protection, to say we see solutions on the equality of employment of a professional person within the legal person and the difference that this law is doing. So the legal person in that segment is not necessarily the i.e. There are certain restrictions on the employment of a legal person. Maybe we should get that story done. The other thing I personally think about that we can think about even more and coordinate with some other incentives primarily from the Ministry of Labour, I say once again within the government, but also within the public, so in order to combat the gray economy this law is therefore for domestic work, for secondary occupations unlike the previous law, it is not intended for them to be listed, their tax-based, therefore-listing activities that they are. Is that good, is that not good, is that and how it will affect the economy itself? Practically by this law this domestic activity becomes... And domestic labor becomes the only twists that have a limit in money, so in a number that is 80,000 if I'm not wrong about what's at their disposal for the job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But all the other effects are much more difficult and the question is, how much will cannibalism be towards craftsmen, and is it possible to do this control effectively? I'm saying, once again, let's think about maybe making it more effective. The third dilemma and my personal and biggest part of the MPs, perhaps the largest, is this article 36th on practically protecting the creditors, protecting the competition and the scope of the property which the craftsmen are therefore responsible for their obligations in order to say the protection of the credentials. In any case, I think it's the unison's conclusion that all MPs need to keep the property in which the craftsmen live, but to define the property they're bringing into the crafts. I think that's where the HOC's solutions are at least on track for what they should be, so they're proposing 20 grand to be a minimum stake, just like in companies. I think it's on the trail of good solutions and I appeal to the ministers and to the entire government to think that they're doing it in more detail. As some colleagues have said, it will prevent this possibility of manipulation. I think it's very important for this law that things be transparent and open. And the fourth open topic is the same thing I say many times, so I would only touch myself in principle, and that's that entrance into the interior. In any case, to prescribe some basic things, but to make such a detailed provision, whether it is a direct choice on the one hand, and on the other hand a lot of colleagues and you, Mr. Minister, were not at the whole debate but in our discussions outside and on the committee you mentioned the other extremes that Slovenia did. So, to regulate mandatory membership and if it were to go in that direction then it really doesn't make sense to regulate such deep statute relations within the association itself. So let's think about it one more time. There's pluses, there's minuses, but I'm saying those four open topics are right in front of us. It's a good thing this public debate took so long, it's obviously shown as much interest as I see in the media, 83,000 craftsmen, 200 thousand people directly interested. All the other economies, I say primarily about the equality of the economy, it is very important that we enforce that law to say so. We all know that craftsmanship was, in fact, the only way to carry out some kind of activity in Communism, and on that side, I also support those colleagues who said that we should have even more emphasis on traditional crafts etc., etc. But like I said, I don't want you to think any longer, Mr. Secretary, about these four open questions. Thank you for coming so deeply into the debate and continue to be with your team so open in breaking taboo that we come together to the best solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40789	Thank you, too. With your exposure, you've caused three replicas. The first one will be presented by counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Radjenovic, as you have said, will in any case be an attempt to make a good deal with the grey economy, but you have also turned your attention to the provision of Article 36. And if nothing was written new, and I believe that many have agreed on it regardless of the broad debate that was just caused by the letter of the Chamber of crafts, so that there is only this provision I think this law would fulfill its purpose. First of all, the government shows that it has a soul and that it is not normal and that it is not possible for a craft because of a small debt and you have made a good point, and it should be repeatedly noted that these things are no longer repeated. So the Vukic family from Zadar, which for a few tens of thousands, so 20, 30 thousand kuna, has been threatened to run out of house. And not only that, but the state at the time you or your colleague Schucker was then the minister even sold the debt with a factoring agreement so that private persons could charge that debt. And when was that? At the same time, a colleague, Maric, pointed out that it is also doubtful that this tax amnesty, as he calls it, is where the simple state forgives debts. But here it's still all suspicious what seems transparent and public. And how before the tax amnesty we had before? I would call it no different than tax pigs when the debts of the selected societies, the chosen trades, tax debts fell into oblivion. And that's why I'm asking Mr. Minister to turn the risk to that because that's one big, big injustice. ... These are serious issues that need to be cleared up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40791	Thank you. Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, that Mrs. Anticevic is right and this law is going in the right direction to try to solve this issue and in no case do what happened to this Zadar family, and you as a trap are certainly much better acquainted with it. But we all know where the cause of the problem is but so you don't repeat Minister Maras he's talking about it well. To this end and because of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2010 to ensure on the one hand the inviolability of the property in which the property is necessary for... /The speaker does not understand./... the basic life needs of craftsmen so that this active invulnerability remains at home in this respect in order for people to remain at home but we must consider and find the right solution because otherwise there is a danger, I feel a little uncomfortable when I tell us to fall again on a constitutional court in this respect I must also consider protecting the believers on the other hand. On the other hand, this solution that says i.e. real estate to carry out an independent activity which is the main source of the means of life i think it is good to say on the trail of the solution of the craft chamber you have probably seen... of this article 36a, which says primarily is entered into the crafts register of assets of no less than 20 thousand kuna and some other solutions, so that this is resolved in this way and that we get both and the other and protection of the creditors and... the competition. And of course this is the most important objective of this provision, and that is also the main benefit of this law as I see it for the future and for the safety of craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40793	The second line is the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40794	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Radjenovic, with you, with most of it, I agree at the end of the line there was also a debate on the Committee on the Economy. However, I would like to share with you another debate about additional work which, if clearly not defined, shows experience from the past, whether in the past 20 years or before can be unfair competition because whoever has additional work is already working somewhere, pays pension and health therefore his obligation with what he earns is far less than the obligation of craftsmen. And it can also be what the President of the Chamber of Commerce said on the Committee on Economy that one of his employees could do the job in the afternoon in extra activity at a far lower price. So these are the real dangers to think about. But when we talk about property, then what simple experience is that we should finally define what the property of a craftsman is and that it should be a guarantee of certain things. And if a craftsman is to have some kind of mutual relationship or some kind of religious relationship, he wants to make additional insurance measures for the bank, he can do that. However, this Article 36, as written, states that paragraph 2 applies only to the claims of the State. All of this, whoever goes into any business relationship with a craftsman will demand an additional guarantee because, using the provisions of Article 36(2), they will not want to enter this story. And the other thing, English experts have become tax experts, so they should know that the state's tax claim cannot be sold to any factoring society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40795	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40796	I think the last sentence hurt the Rules of Procedure a little because you were answering someone else, not me. And in your own content, the meaning of the replica is that you are in some way opposing, and you have confirmed my views and I say in the most part I agree with myself and certainly with you where you confirm these thoughts. In fact, I have appealed and I say in this direction, unlike the good part of this tide on the Committee on the Economy, the debates went well, so it is certain that the ministry wanted the best solution to Article 36 on real estate, but also the 50th, 51st domesticity and secondary occupations, and on that side, to prescribe. I gave my personal position in the past law were prescribed which are domestic... which are secondary occupations. I say primarily in order to protect the competition for the protection of craftsmen but also the efficiency of tax collection, in any case, that unfair competition on the one hand is not being built, and on the other, there is obviously a need for employment. But I'm saying there must be criteria about it, it's better to set out in detail what activities b are the way they're done here, the number itself, so 80,000 maybe we could enter some other solutions about it. and I say there are good solutions in the past law, there are other laws, and that is also the goal of clearing up the story to another debate, and I hope that this law as well as many others will then be able to pass unanimously and on that side show responsibility both to ourselves and to all people in this country. Thank you very much. On that side, we show responsibility to ourselves and to all the people in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40797	The last replica of this exhibition is representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Kola Radjenović if all the laws in Croatia were to pass this debate procedure and adopted in this way Croatia would certainly be better and better for us. And that's a confirmation of your debate because according to yesterday's views that could have been heard here, here's what we agreed on at least one point, and I think that by the end of the debate, it's going to come to an even more important point on this law. When you were talking about the need to define property, it's not exactly the HDZ Club against the law, it's for the completion of this law. And one of the main remarks is what you're now saying you accept to define the property of a craftsman. The decision of the Constitutional Court has also annulled Article 20(1) because of an undefined and unclear, undefined category of assets of craftsmen. And I think that now, especially this article 36 that offers the Croatian Chamber of crafts will be an appropriate replacement. Otherwise, the 36th is no substitute for this, and I wouldn't personally support it or accept it. However, it is necessary to ensure that an individual trader is not brought into an unequal position and that, accordingly, Article 9 is amended accordingly. The Law on the ZTD because in this case, we will remain an individual trader, the only natural person and the only person involved in any entrepreneurial activity to guarantee the entire assets, and accordingly, the property used by the trader for economic purposes should also be defined. Because by many parameters the craftsman is like a craftsman in... the position relative to other forms of entrepreneurship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'll do that later in a public hearing. Especially in relation to other laws, and we cannot just observe in one context. We can look at the whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40799	Now let's listen to Igor Radenovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40800	Well, here's very short, my colleague Maric also agreed in most parts but I say and that's good and I think that these life laws and otherwise I often say here that it's good that we bring the laws in as wide a procedure as possible, of course given all the business circumstances, because in the good part of the debate was productive but in the good part and it's not and I'm saying and there may be a need to return the board's dignity and I always call on it. In... In which I take part these discussions are always good and lifelike and perhaps the public and all others should be interested right there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to free actually this hall from politics where it doesn't need to be because it's very often there. Of course there must be political debates here and be on topics that should be on this subject as well as on this as well as on any other subject, then I must politically answer you that in the good part we will say about professional matters. So around this law what needs to be done and how it should be done but that the difference between this and that side of the political stage is that this side has the will, has the determination to change things, that it doesn't want to hide things that go past it, but simply wants to make good moves in order to be good, I say to all of us in the future and that, and I believe it will persist. And that's why I'm glad to come one whole series especially from this financial so part of the law... So the regulation of this Law on crafts which since 93, and we all agreed that it should have been passed by amendments and additions we've been fixing, but here's the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts decided to pass a new law and some other things, here's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which follows. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it should make moves and of course, if errors in walking happen to correct them, but it should make moves. The biggest problem in our political close past and many others is that in the economic field politics doesn't make moves things are going down, and I believe that you'll agree with me too, and then we'll take a head and we'll pull fast and fast moves that actually cost a lot more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40801	We're continuing an individual debate. The word is given to a respected colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40802	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am sorry that there is no minister here right now because after yesterday's debate I had the opportunity to talk to, let's say small craftsmen who are not satisfied with the debate are not satisfied with the debate of our MPs or with the debate of the minister because most of yesterday's debate was about whether the minister is in a fight with the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or not. That's no interest in craftsmen. It's not up to them to solve these problems, nor to the Ministry to... with the president of the crafts chamber. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The craftsmen are located in an invisible position. Unloyal competition, incomprehensibility and ineffectiveness of state institutions, too high taxes, contributions, taxes and various fees, the problem of payment of claims and the fall of purchasing power. These are the problems of craftsmanship. And craftsmanship as Croatia's most important economic branch leads to ruin. That's what 50 grand of outstretched crafts testify to. This law is not only important for the development or survival of craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia. It's an important law on value added tax. Here at the cabinet session, it was decided that the craftsmen would be obliged to account for VAT on issued accounts instead of as charged bills so far. It will also bring craftsmen into an uninvited position. Also not accepted is the request by craftsmen to lower VAT rates to 5% for traditional and artistic crafts. It was also not accepted by our craftsmen. The craftsmen also complain about the frequent inspections they can say are looking for hair in the egg. They are tortured by rigorous regulations in all activities while unfair competition continues to work uninterrupted. In construction and hairstyle activities, work continues to flourish on black and many undeclared car mechanics who are doing their job uninterruptedly, not to speak. Until on the one hand, craftsmen who work neatly are literally possessed, no one touches unfair competition. Specific applications do not mean anything, under the law without judicial solutions must not be entered into the possession of those working on black. And those who work neatly can come every day. The number of interventions and the number of people operating on black is impossible to find out. It's a business secret that's almost absurd to me craftsmen. The proposed law of a legal person engaged in the activities of tied crafts such as auto mechanics, electricians, gas-installers or hairdressers shall not, unlike craftsmen, have a professionally trained person. This puts craftsmanship and vocational education directly at risk, while their expertise is impaired. In the absence of the obligation to hire a highly qualified person, the quality of services provided and thus the protection of consumers are at stake. This proposal suggests that professional schools will soon become unnecessary. However, today in the Republic of Croatia, I do not know if there is a school in which mills are educated, for example. Or chimneys. These are occupations that die in Croatia. There is a list of deficiting services and products that can be carried out through secondary occupation and domestic work as complementary work, but this bill makes domestic work and secondary occupation fully equal to the craft in such a way that anyone can register any activity as domestic activity and secondary occupation. So we can be in a situation that if there's a cake-making craft and that craft employs two, three or four workers, you come buy cookies, you pay 10 kuna, and in the afternoon you can go to the lady who makes these same cookies, for example. In his basement and that cake pay 4 kuna. I am now interested specifically in where you will first go to take that cake, whether it is in the craft or in the basement of that lady who performs that activity in the afternoon. I can't say that this bill has no advantage over the existing law, it does. It's the institution of the transfer of crafts that is worth living, not just after death. He'll help transfer the craftsmen from one owner to another and that's positive. There are also positive contributions, employment to unemployment benefits. It's also positive in the law. But what I'm up against is the obligation to pay the chamber's contribution, so every craftsman is obliged to pay the parchment to the craftsman's chamber. If we voted not to pay a contribution to the agricultural chamber, then I see no reason why we should pay the craftsman's contribution to the craftsman's chamber because, as we heard through the debate, 74% of craftsmen do not use the service of the craftsman's chamber. So that chamber is not at the service of craftsmen. Those who wish to pay their contributions should pay and use the services of the Chamber of Commerce. I would also like such a provision to be included in this law and to reach another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40803	Thank you. Replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40804	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, you mentioned VAT and VAT law, but because of the truth and because of the fact, I think it's important to say that most artisans are charged immediately after the bill is issued, so these are fewer or less bills which are smaller amounts and which are paid immediately. So the advantage of paying tax by, not by the invoice, but by the invoice, and it's not that crucial, at least for me. A fellow Shuker mentioned yesterday that many craftsmen had grown simply from the crafts to the d.o.o. And where I'm lucky there's more of them, it means that they have more traffic, that they're expanding their capacities and they're crossing into D.O.O. So they're leaving if we're actually going to say the only objective advantage of craftsmanship, which is to charge VAT not by issue but by the invoice. As far as working on the black and gray economies is concerned, there is certainly no matter where the inspections should appeal to civil liability if asked. There is also a campaign by the Ministry of Finance to ask for an account, I think that there are citizens here and we as citizens of the Republic of Croatia should play a role in preventing the formation of a gray economy and preventing simply not an objective advantage that those working on black have. Many mentions were made of traditional crafts in this debate yesterday and today, but I think traditional crafts need different protection, so they need to be protected because of tourism, because of cultural heritage, perhaps not necessarily by this law, but in the domain of the units of local self-government or tourist communities should find their niche somewhere. And in the end for the Chamber of Commerce, so we have three chambers that exist in the sphere of the economy, a farming chamber that is no longer mandatory and these two mandatory, so crafts and economics. There are opinions divided at least, there are both advantages and disadvantages of the mandatory chamber system, but if we put the chambers on the market, I think their service will certainly improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40805	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40806	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I will begin at the end of your line. As for the Croatian Chamber of crafts yesterday, I think you said in the debate yesterday that it gathers certain stakeholders and represents small craftsmen at the fairs. I couldn't agree more, and I support it. That's exactly what the craft chamber is supposed to do. But there's a craftsman who doesn't participate in fairs and I don't see any reason why they should pay that chamber contribution. It's one of my thesis, or way of thinking. And as for VAT collection by account, I'll tell you my personal example where one acquaintance owns a craftsman and he's been doing one job for a month, one service that was worth 10,000 kuna. He exposed the account to the user of his service, however, he does not even know when the account will be paid. So he has to pay the VAT now that leads him to an unequal position. So his turn is about whether he'll survive. It's a little twist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40807	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, information on how we're going to work today. Once we have completed the debate on this point we would still be working on the report on the business of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investment and then, since we have no applicants, we would start at the 10th point at 15:00 The proposal for a management strategy and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2017. So that would be, we'd start at 3:00, because that's when the proposer comes. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. colleague Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40808	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Deputy Associates, colleagues and colleagues. In this debate, I would join all those who advocate, and in the debate they presented examples that prove that until the second reading of the law it is necessary to comply with this law or other laws with this law, no matter what. But the worst part is when, in different laws, we speak exactly the same in a different way. More details about that later. Now just a few principled comments or remarks. Mr. Minister, the first proposal would be that at the very beginning of the law as an article, a new article should be put on a second or so term and in fact define the concepts used in the law, i.e. their meaning in the context of this law. When the first Law on crafts was written it was not common, these new laws contain it, it is not particularly a great effort but would significantly contribute to the modernisation of the very text of the law, but also to better understanding and then tomorrow would remove some ambiguities and later needs for interpretations in law enforcement itself. The second proposal is that the text of the law should actually be passed in detail, correcting errors which in the laws should not be, for example, the provisions of Article 53(3) are missing more than half of the sentence, there are first few words, there is no extension of the sentence. We don't really know what's proposed. I believe it's purely about the type of feller. But it's something that the law simply can't, it can't be. The same applies to the lecturing of text, or some kind of grammatical error. I mean, maybe it's stupid, but it's not, because it's about meaning, the cuts in Article 6 are set wrong, and so wrongly placed means important other than what was actually meant to mean, and that's what's important tomorrow when we're going to enforce the law itself. And let me, there's been a lot of words here already, I'd like to make very specific remarks about certain articles because I believe there's enough on one side and time and will, and I believe that you recognize the need for the law to work out. I also agree with my colleague Radjenović and some others who say that it would be optimal for this law to adopt both consensus and satisfy many interests. It's just not even impossible. As I said in the replica before, it is doubtless important for craftsmen to have an initial education and that it is one or almost the only part within the education system in which the world of work and the world of education are united very early already at secondary school level. This is challenging both for one and the other resistor and in this sense there are certain difficulties that need to be seen as opportunities to actually edit that part in the best possible way. And that is why it is good for our future craftsmen, so today in their important part of education, to be educated specifically by craftsmen, so directly for the profession they will be doing tomorrow, and it is important and important that this part of education be regulated and by the Law on crafts. However, as the provisions of this bill were mostly transposed from the old text of the Law on Spinning in the meantime, it happened that we passed several other laws, the primary Law on Professional Education, which was adopted by consensus here in the Croatian Parliament. I will mention some more later and it is necessary to really comply with the provisions of the two laws. And as I said specifically by the articles. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on vocational education. The provisions of Articles 5 and 6 shall be satisfied in these other paragraphs. I think it's about unnecessary repetition. Sometimes what expressions will then give very creative interpretations. We have people who are prone to interpret the laws, not implement them. I think they should be carried out, not interpreted in relation to each, to the slightest degree of consciousness, different interpretations in particular. As regards Article 54(8), The law on vocational education is a very clear and precise definition of professional curricula. Now Article 54 of this bill defines the professional curricula in a different way and that is quite problematic because it is the same thing that regulates the exact same activity. Similarly, it applies to provisions on who is actually the person who brings the professional curricula. Article 8 The law on vocational education is passed by the minister of education. According to this law, in one part it is brought by the minister of craft, and in the other part of the generalised subject matter, hence Croatian, mathematics and similar minister of craft gives consent which is a pretty interesting combination. I think we should understand the difference between the old concepts, plans and programmes where it was separated and the curicula as a different way of programming in education, where it was precisely defined in the way set out in the Law on Professional Education. But I repeat, so we must have a uniform question, an answer to the question of who brings the professional curricula. He can't say in two laws that they're different. As far as Article 55 is concerned, it also needs to be redecorated. I can give more precise formulations to comply with Article 8. Council Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 of 23 July 2006 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the European Community and the European Economic Community (OJ L 298, 30.10.2006, p. 1). The law on education in elementary and high school, and something also seemed to me to my colleague, Roksandić, told me about it. Article 56 is very important, so how and who brings the teaching programme. So the education of the students themselves in craftsmen. For example, you have an example in Article 53(3). The law on education and education in primary and secondary school formulation, hence the way they are organised in craft schools and practical courses in the professional rules of the minister responsible for education. This is the case in Article 53(3) of the basic Regulation. Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. And the Minister of Education made the Regulation on how and how to organise and carry out teaching in vocational schools, including craftsmen, a year ago. You here now predict Article 56 that the same rule that regulates the same is brought by the Minister of crafts. So it doesn't matter to me exactly which person will bring it, so it needs to be harmonised between two resistors. But it can't be different about the same thing. In particular, it is an article 57 that speaks about the competences of a person or craftsman who conducts a teaching programme, i.e. education of a student. And I talked about it earlier. That's really important. I'm not sure whether the solution is that the Chamber of Commerce is issuing a license in that sense optimally, not because it may not be a good way, but because the question of teacher competence is actually through all the other resistors in all others, so I say to professional subjects to solve as high school classes. We are scheduled by the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school that this part of pedagogical-psychological education therefore lasts for those who are not pedagogical orientation 60 ECTS that is an academic year. It's very difficult to reconcile this with actually one licensing procedure by the Chamber of Commerce. The question is how many of them have the competencies to do the job. Of course, if we are interested in all the people who work with children being educated, then it is necessary to reconcile that in this sense of competence itself. Also, you already have in Article 105. The law on primary and secondary education is prescribed that certain competences for teachers, as well as professional associates in primary and secondary schools are prescribed by the minister responsible for education. And that's the duality I was talking about again. Article 58, that's the competence I was talking about, and I wouldn't repeat it. The article 59 was not about him, we are talking about what are the obstacles for people to receive scientists in practical teaching. I would ask that the provisions of that article be extended. Today, we and our children at school are not only able to work for individuals who have committed certain crimes but who have also been prosecuted. In this respect, this provision of Article 59 has a significantly smaller scope of criminal offences, but it is possible to work, for example, persons with a confirmed indictment, a criminal offence, for example, for some crimes against the life of the body, against sexual freedom and the like, and those persons should not otherwise work with children at school or at any other public institution. So my recommendation is somehow to comply with the provisions of Article 106. The law on education and education in primary and secondary schools, so in those two parts. Therefore, to extend the scope of criminal offences and, on the other hand, add this part that children cannot be dealt with by persons who have a criminal procedure, and not only by judicial judgments. As regards Article 62, that is enough, this article 62 regulates the relationship between craftsmen and students in the teaching process. This is already all expensive and regulated by Articles 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 31 in particular. The law on vocational education. For example, Article 31 refers to the amount of the prize, i.e. the fee which is not mentioned here in this article. The same thing is the way in which the contract is terminated, which is in Article 32. The law on vocational education. So, you here have minimum terms for contracts to be prescribed by the minister responsible for the trade rules, and this all has been regulated by one other law already. It's also something that needs to be coordinated. Article 63 of the assistant exams, we've talked a lot about that. So you should think about it, so if it is estimated that the current final exams are not good enough and in a good enough way do not question students' competences, then you should not introduce a new exam but in some way renegotiate the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40809	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40810	And to conclude, all of this together I commend compliance with the Qualifications Framework Act and perhaps just one addition, the proposal to consider that practice can also be done in craftsmen from other countries. Cross-border cooperation in border areas is very important and I think it would facilitate the implementation of practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40811	Thank you very much. Comrade Josip Djakić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40812	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, your associates. Well, here's the law that's been proposed we've heard that improving the work of craftsmen, but in practice it's visible that it won't contribute to any significant shifts. Some protection of craftsmen with regard to the implementation of their entire assets and the guarantee of their business with the entire assets that is preferred in this law as the most important and important thing I think is that there is a lot of inadequacy and will not contribute to that objective which he wanted to achieve, regardless of the decision of the Constitutional Court which abolished certain provisions. The Chamber of Commerce made it clear that strict assistance and care should be defined in respect of the Law on crafts and should appear. It is pathetic that professional people of the Chamber of craftsmen, themselves craftsmen who have organized themselves, who have analyzed this law in all possible variants, put 9, 10 pages of remarks on it, which, with clear explanations, said in which direction and what the law should look like. I would just say a commendable announcement is worth helping not to implement the basic means of living i.e. houses and apartments necessary for the life of craftsmen and their families if they come into financial trouble. However, I do not think that much of this will be resolved, given that everyone can always be reminded that it is because of unconscious business, that this has come into trouble because of the inability to pay, so there is also because he has used something, and everyone is able to note that because of the inability to pay, he has entered into a violation or criminal offence that is prescribed by law. So I don't think this aid to craftsmen would be good at all if it wasn't defined as suggested by the Chamber of craftsmen who clearly spoke about who had to fulfill it. Equally, equating additional work as well as secondary occupations with a clean craftsman and its craftsman absolutely makes no sense. This is also said by the Chamber of craftsmen and craftsmen that it will not be any help in greater employment through the crafts of additional interests of natural persons and their equalization should be related to knowledge and education. with a professional examination of whether through educational institutions or through the Chamber of Commerce itself. And we see that such a way has also made it clear what the Chamber of craftsmen think about the applicable Law on crafts, in which the right of a natural person to carry out domestic work or a secondary occupation in a smaller scale and for the precise defined craft activities of the list, which is not equal to the crafts. That's how it was in the law so far, and that's what was good. The list of these complementary professions or parallel transactions that would be carried out in deficits must certainly be defined by this law and that is the important proposal which also craftsmen in Article 51 express as it should appear. The list of services referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted by the Minister responsible for entrepreneurship and crafts on a proposal from the HOK. This should be understood to make it appear that, as in all other segments, it is the one who, in common with the Minister responsible for crafts and entrepreneurship, will decide jointly. Then cooperation with respect, mutual respect for the ministry and craftsmen who want to help would be quality, maximum and there would be no doubt that something would be done behind the back. This way and this way can significantly enable even more work on black. This work on black should also be prevented by this Law on craftsmanship and by those lists, as well as by persons who will carry out this smaller scope of additional complementar activity or secondary occupation. I believe that there is a good intention and this is the first reading, and so are these remarks that have been made by the Chamber of crafts I respect you regardless of what the political options are in the Chamber of Commerce. I believe it is truly perfectly reasonable that I would not repeat and read these nine pages of objections that have been delivered to you. All of you are asked from the Chamber of crafts to be constructive and to accept these proposals so that, in common consensus, they will pass this law that would be worth a long time and that would allow craftsmen to be valued in society, to work, not to have the next 35 thousand seals, to open up new ones, and to hire people to acquire knowledge through craftsmanship and not to tailor them as you are trying to make these laws their way of association, the height of their membership, and all that you have put in this law as a competent ministry to decide all the things that the craftsmen had in their hands so far, and they were not prescribed what and how. With their statutes, their craftsmen's organisation defined what they should look like and how they should look and are organised, and of course the way of their choices defined by one member, one vote clearly states that you want to get involved absolutely in the selection of leaders in this Czech organization, which is 160 years old, which is functioning in all systems and which has been many times the only of developmentists, prosperity, progress and improvement in Croatia, which has valuable and quality people who are unfortunately due to a number of problems, and especially the problems of tax nature and market nature have come into great trouble and in this direction should have been sought and found the possibilities of all kinds of help crafts, simplifying things, respect their proposals and joint them to draw up this law which is here I must say that the ignored Chamber of crafts has put into another plan, and also through the articles of the law clearly states that they will not comply with their proposals. So I repeat once again that it would not burden all of you, a lot has been said through all the discussions of our distinguished representatives and MPs and what is said in the transitional and final provisions that the new Article 100, which reads "comoric contribution in the associations of craftsmen and regional craftsmen whose height, due to the taking over of financial commitments at the time of entry into force of this law, exceeds the amount of the highest chamber contribution established by the decision of the Assembly of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, remains in force until the expiry of the deadline of the financial commitments." Here's what craftsmen suggest so they don't get into trouble where they've made commitments, and by planning the funds they've been collecting, you've put them in an awkward situation right now, so you should think about putting this into the final bill that's going to be in the second reading. I say these nine pages of text with explanations makes sense, has a tail and a head, has a justification and he's a proposal for those who need it the most. So I ask that it be included in the next final bill, and then I could raise my hand to that law and I in order to be useful to our craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40813	Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40814	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Djakic, is the real question why the government, why the minister has been so focused on wanting to have control, regardless of what he says he does not want, but the provisions of this law clearly state if he gives consent to the statute of craftsman's chamber. If he wants the Parliament to debate, and if the Parliament discusses then the government must give its opinion. In such a way, he clearly wants to dull any sharpness of criticism of craftsmen and craftsmen according to government decisions. Instead of dealing with how to strengthen craft chambers, how to encourage them to participate more, to engage more in education and craftsmen and also to increase their share and participation in vocational education, they deal with administrative and administrative obligations. And speaking of parafiscal impositions, you probably don't know, and neither craftsmen nor entrepreneurs, most of them have actually met now these days with the fact that FINA has introduced a charge for annual financial reports from 200 and some more kunas to, so much for the reduction of fiscal burdens that Minister Maras was so praised about in this House today and yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40815	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40816	Well, you have well noticed that party centralism and the insistence of controlling everyone and everyone, as well as the craft chamber as well as the economic chamber, all of this wants to be strictly supervised so that there is no possibility of such demographic dialogue as is appropriate before this parliamentary debate. Of course, all that the craftsman's chamber delivered, which she suggested, which she corrected and of course the profession said unlike a minister who doesn't even have a day's work in craftsmanship, who has no idea about craftsmen, is never alive with them, clearly. ... But nowhere else, of course, he fell off the march and wrote the law and defended the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And tries to control the law [[I'm begging you! A colleague!]] And he's trying to control the law with everything he shouldn't. [[Intruder: colleague Djakić.]] Professional, quality, competent craftsmen wrote their proposals and clearly said what was wrong and wrong. You may, Madam Vice President, as well as your colleagues who allow me to be prevented in my response to the replica, say what you want, but party control and craftsmen as well as craftsmen themselves are in place. Not any help you'd like to present in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40817	Comrade Djakić, I only interrupted you because you are inappropriately expressing yourself about the minister and it is your right to discuss as you wish and I did not interrupt you. ... Please, you don't have a word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Boris Kovacic, not present, loses the right to debate on this point. And it's up to counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40818	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I've already said that every law should be discussed and adopted in this way because, especially this one, because many facts and indicators suggest that the craftsmanship goes down the way and that the craftsmanship is threatened for multiple reasons. That he's threatened and he's going down the path best shows where only in the last 10 years is 60 thousand less employees in crafts and 24 thousand less crafts. We should all be concerned about such a finding. But let's start with the definition of crafts so we can even talk about crafts. And in this law, which is very evident, the definition of craft is ignored and this law speaks of crafts activity as if it were not a craftsmanship. And the craft by definition says that it is the activity of trained masters for which special skills, skills and knowledge are needed. It's a twist. Defining the activity in this law that, that crafts activities can be engaged in anything other than what is not prohibited from the nature of crafts activity. So I think it would be necessary to define craft activity. And if the problem had already arisen, it is evident that many craftsmen are moving to the d.o.o., and it is interpreted as an advantage. Of course I'll warn you why d.o.o. in some segments is an advantage over the twist. But if that's the process, then we're headed for the death of a craftsman. And that shouldn't be our goal. And I think we should change the philosophy of looking at crafts and crafts. Because we've kept philosophy like it's still a former system. And the craftsmen were in the former socialist system a major obstacle to the system. They were different views, they looked at the economy and entrepreneurship entirely from different... We kept the same eyes on them and the system changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So maybe some of the suggestions that I'm going to make here will be a little bit different from the usual ones, but maybe the time has matured to talk about them. So, for example, why not finally define the property that is necessary, the Constitutional Court points to that. We have to define her. We agreed to define her. ... Why is it that when someone does the same activity as a craftsman, let's say Jakov Jakovčević craftsman limar and Jakov Jakovčević d.o.o. And the same thing about the Limara business has a different treatment and it's in a more unfavourable situation. [[You don't understand a word.]] That should be avoided. And it must be seen with more aspects as other laws reflect on it. For example, if we do not define the property, if we do not distinguish the craft and as a natural person from the natural person himself, because Jakov Jakovčević if d.o.o. he is in d.o.o. with 10 kuna and property d.o.o., but Jakov Jakovčević when he goes to his apartment at sea and into the apartment he is a natural person unrelated to his economic activity, but if Jakov Jakovčević is a craftsman then he cannot share it. If he has an apartment that he rents, then the craftsman has to pay his income tax, which is 40%. If it is d.o.o., and has an apartment for rent as Jakov Jakovčević a natural person he pays 10% tax on that apartment. What's the point, because he doesn't have that rent he's taking, and he doesn't have to file a tax return, and here... I think it's ripe time to define the activity, define the property and define, distinguish the crafts as an activity, and everything that needs to be entered into the crafts of property and everything. Why wouldn't the craftsman have another OIB, if he... the Limar workshop gets the OIB and the solution of the trade court, and as a natural person retains his OIB, why does a craftsman who deals with crafts activities like Jakov Jakovčević have his OIB, and as Jakov Jakovčević has another OIB. And that's to think, because as d.o.o. There is. Why must he also get a solution about craftsmanship and craftsmanship. So we have years, that's all... socialism. For years we've had a registration and a vehicle book, now it's matured time not to need one, and it's matured time if there's enough registration from a commercial court for all legal persons why we have to invent for craftsmen that there's got to be some kind of craftsmanship and a solution to the craftsmanship. We can simplify and improve the position of craftsmen so much that we really need to get attention to it. Why would a craftsman not be allowed to open a craftsman without having a professional exam? If he can do it in d.o.o. Open and deal with the Limar activity, then why can't the craft also have a Limar activity, and will hire masters who can do it. So it's like d.o.o. anyone can open and deal with craftsmanship, but as a craftsman, they can't, but they can't. So hair salon d.o.o. Could be... who doesn't have a master's craft, but a craftsman can't open, and the same hair salon. It's illogical, it's unnatural, it's lifeless. There are so many lifeless situations. We've ruled out vocational schools and why they exist. It doesn't make sense that vocational schools are excluded from, that they don't qualify for manuals, masters and other qualifications. What's the point of doing that at the association? So imagine if a judicial exam was taken at the bar. So much of this law has to move a little further away from the Chamber of crafts, so deep inside that it even procedurally determines as in no other law how to choose someone and something, even predicts by law that 83,000 chooses the president, but its resolution can only draw 17 people out of the congregation. This is an unnatural and unsustainable situation to interfere so much with the interest of business entities of the state. It's not her job or her job to collect contributions for membership fees and membership fees are herself by the nature of her..., membership fees must be voluntary something. How is membership if it is forced, what is membership if the law says you must..., a member can only be voluntary and membership is only on a voluntary basis by his nature. This is where the nature of the meaning of the word is disrupted. So, if it's any interest to team up with them, let's leave them alone, whether they're interested in paying membership fees, and let them benefit from it, but don't make them. And we haven't solved the problem of gentlemen at the ministry if he says we've determined their upper limit. So who are we to determine whether there will be membership or not, let alone determine the upper limit. Let us then determine the membership fee of the Bar Association, the Chamber of Architects, then enter the law that architects must also report to the Assembly to discuss them and whether we will accept such reports or not. We talk so much about freedom of entrepreneurship, and there is a direct threat to freedom of association and entrepreneurship. And I'm saying that the last freedom of a man who can't possibly take away the freedom of his own choice. So let's let the craftsmen have their own choices whether to team up, whether or not they will be able to assess whether they benefit from something. And in particular, we have to, just because this law cannot be defined, warn about the problem that craftsmen have in the distribution of their goods, in the collection of their goods, and in fact they are the most common ones who have problems with payment, and at least participate in the fact that they are debtors in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40819	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40820	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well esteemed fellow, with the parts of your debate, I can agree, so the crafts can only open professional persons while d.o.o. may perform those services whether the founder is professional or not. It may be, since many colleagues have raised doubts about mandatory membership and so on, it might be good, and that's what the promoter will believe and decide until the next reading, whether to leave the decision of association, mandatory membership fees and similar craftsmen, so let's see what they say, so not to the chamber, but to the craftsmen who make the chamber. However, I would like to refer to some of the other things you said. Namely, you mentioned this advantage of moving from the craft to the d.o.o. I had something else in mind when I was talking about it. I have seen some twists grow, so their traffic goes beyond the legal frameworks, so the traffic prescribed by the law, and for that reason they go to d.o.o. At least that was my interpretation of what Mr. Schucker mentioned yesterday if I wasn't mistaken. So here we see the good thing about some craftsmen growing the frames of what the law prescribes as a craftsman. However, the problems of crafts and companies are something else, and you have also detected this in the debate, and this is a lack of effective mechanisms that guarantee the payment of an invoice. This is what is the problem in both craftsmanship and business companies. However, this does not solve the Law of Turning. I'm afraid some laws have already been passed that try to bridge this problem, or protect the believer, but unfortunately, although we have good people, very good and high-quality people on the market who exist both as trades and as companies, we also have those malignancies who abuse someone's trust and do not pay their dues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40821	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40822	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, that's what I was saying compared to D.O.O. and crafts only to warn of illogicality and if in several situations the craftsman is exposed to a worse position as a craftsman than if the same activity is carried out in d.o.o. For example, if the craft has d.o.o. who deals the same, I'm going to tell him again, sign up for a minimum wage, and that minimum wage doesn't depend on his professional preparation or on qualifications and pays his contributions to minimum wage. If the same jobs are not done as d.o.o. but as a tin-turner then comes to him every year a solution from the state administration on the level of income, contributions that must be paid for social, pension and employment. But that height depends on his professional preparation. Can't be the same status as in d.o.o. That's what we have to worry about. And how do you divide that? So it must finally be said which is a twist, which is not, and which is d.o.o. and what will be done within the framework of the company's capital, and what will be done as a crafts activity. Because this is how we drifted away from the purpose of the craftsmanship and shut down the craftsmanship, and that's not the point. And if we were on the right track, I'd already said how many empty turns around the city of Zagreb that's amazing. So it's probably all over the cities and other places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40823	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40824	Dear colleague Maric, you're looking for, here's a moment before you said meaning and logic, and there's less and less in politics, although you've said several times in replicas that it hasn't been politicized here. In debates, however, it is politicized in the law itself. This law actually encourages unfair competition and encourages you to point out inequality. It's very logical to explain that it's illogical and above all wrong that an inexperience can open d.o.o. and engage in the same activity as a craftsman who must be an expert in the work. How do you explain that? Well, it's very hard to explain why. The same is illogical, but the legislator says it can be. It's just that they say so, you have to accept that that's how we decide. First of all, freedoms are extinguished because the state is involved in selecting non-state authorities. For what? Which is why the state doesn't affect all the other bodies in all the other chambers. What makes the craftsmen an exception? Which is why even the minister gives himself the right to this law, which I hope the minister will respect, so he won't insist on such solutions that he intervenes in some internal matters that concern only the Chamber of craftsmen who can do better or worse. And of course I support you in making membership in the Chamber of crafts voluntary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40825	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40826	Thank you very much. Well, the fact is, there was very little politicizing in all the debates. There was little in the answers to the replicas, but in the replicas, it wasn't, it wasn't so much. It was essential to propose as high-quality a law as possible, but the truth is, we've come across a little bit of understanding. I think the second reading will show that it will also accept many of the solutions that we are talking about and that it will bear fruit to this debate. And as for discrimination in relation to which, is he engaged within the framework of the d.o.o. or as a craftsman, I will again point out one example from practice. For example, if a craftsman in Zagreb who is a tin man again will say and has random apartments that he rents at sea over the summer. Then everything that has income from renting apartments goes into his income and pays that tax at a rate of up to 40%. And if the same tin was opened by d.o.o. And he has the same suites, and he may not even have... as a craftsman than one can have now another, perhaps even 18 beds as permitted, then they will pay on that fee and that minimum tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How is that possible? In an orderly state, that shouldn't be at all. I'm just warning that we fix these things and look at everything about craftsmen not only through this craftsmanship because it's tied up, it's not, his life is not only made up of while he's in the craft, but he's tied to all other laws and VAT laws and income tax laws as well as property tied up I said a little before about the Law on Commercial Society Article 9, which says that the trader individual must not be treated differently by the craftsman, and only then I say that he should not be treated even worse if he deals with this same activity in the framework of d.o.o. You shouldn't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40827	Replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40828	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here is a respected colleague, Maric, who is talking about an unnatural state in which the legal position of craftsmen is different from those of the company. In fact, the right of companies and commercial law by law, along with the other, is prescribed that each company holder corresponds to all of its assets. Thus, this diversity arises, and why it is thus set perfectly logical and normal because it also has a different degree of responsibility. In our legal provisions, we will see in our legal order that the craftsman, the trader, and the company of the company are three fundamental legal organisational forms in which the economic operators in the Republic of Croatia appear in legal traffic. And they're all kind of different and legal. I will mention, according to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, also such a similar question has been raised in the case since 6 April 2000... The Court ruled against Greece that their freedom and the same position should not be violated if they are in the same legal situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These entities are therefore in a different legal position. And of course everyone can, it has already been mentioned here, it seems to me that a colleague of Radjanovic has spoken of it, it is free to decide how he will carry out his activities. And it is not true that it is unnatural for one activity to be carried out as an individual trader, i.e. a natural person or in a limited liability society or in a company of capital. The question is, then, how will it be organised and ultimately respond in such a way and not only to its suppliers but also to the state as well. So I think it's too general to say state you stay out of it. So whenever the law is passed, then it is the authority and duty of the state to regulate a particular area. However, when it comes to coming, when a person gets into trouble, either society knocks on the door of the state to resuscitate or relieve them of their obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40829	Thank you very much. Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40830	Thank you. My colleague Antičević did not tell the state to stay out of it, on the contrary, the state must interfere and arrange everything in the state. But where she doesn't belong, she shouldn't get involved. The State should not regulate the procedure of electing a president or forming a meeting of some interested associations. Like it doesn't work in any other case. And I set an example. He doesn't arrange for architects, in the Chamber of Architects, in the Chamber of Lawyers he doesn't just edit or not yet, but wants to edit the HOC by this law. And that's unnatural. If it's an exception, it's unnatural. And you can't find me any other case except this case. It doesn't exist. It wants to be a precedent. It wants to be a precedent. I'm against precedent like this. And of course, different shapes, legal forms are different and treatment. So I say it is also necessary to define what can be done in what form. It is not logical for the crafts activity to be all the allowed activity, to be everything, that it is possible to have the factory as a craftsman, that it is possible to have hotel companies as a craftsman. Then we can have as a craft should be a master's exam, and if the craft owns the hotel then the hotel manager can be without any school. It's unnatural stuff. It should not deal with crafts activities as any activity other than trade in arms and medicinal products. That's really unnatural. So how do we figure out what the entrepreneurial activity is? And other forms are forms of entrepreneurial activity, and I agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40831	Replica, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40832	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You have put a chamber contribution in the context of membership. It's not called membership, you're wrong. It's called a chamber contribution, and that's why I don't think your invitation to a membership term is clear. The membership fee is a membership fee, but the contribution is a contribution. And that relationship and that termology and such relations have been established in the mandates of your governments. As for the issue of selecting within the chamber itself and this article, which states that the minister must give consent to the statutes, this is due to the practice and precedent of the practical precedent established in the last 20 years of the HDZ and the HSS. And I'm going to do something wider in the final debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40833	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40834	Fellow Baranovic, of course, is a contribution because this law is called a contribution. If membership were on a voluntary basis, it would be a membership fee. And I'm saying that by nature things should be membership fees, not contributions. Of course, if the state and the law determines that this must be a contribution and that it is called a contribution then that is the case. But it's not natural that it's a contribution, but it's natural that it's a membership and that it's a voluntary membership in someone's association. If professions join together, no one can do it, it's unnatural for someone to force him to be a member of an association of some kind. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You've already had a replica, so I can't do this right now, I can't hear you well. And counterpart Baranovic, when you say the statutes of this HOK law should be laid down, does not provide here that the minister gives consent to the statutes but says he agrees on the procedure and way of determining the election of the president, which will be determined by a general act adopted by the assembly, which gives the opinion of the minister. [[Greba raid: No throwing from the bench.]] Therefore, it is not the minister's opinion on the statutes but on the election and election procedure of the HOK president. This should not be explained that it is unnatural, illogical, non-life, irrational, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40835	Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40836	Thank you very much. A colleague, Maric, perhaps, in our debate today, we talked more about what we think this chamber should do, then perhaps a smaller minister would argue that he has to do some things because you have touched one thing that is the craftsman's nightmare, which is the inability to collect your claims. So most craftsmen are in one way or another connected to large systems and given the situation that is in the Croatian judiciary, since bankruptcy lasts for 10, 15 years, their possibility if there is no good will to the one to whom he sold the product or did a favor not to pay is practically no more if these processes last for several years, and this craftsman is certain that more in this company business business will not get. It's true and it's a fact. And now, perhaps in some future, the chamber should be like some kind of professional association or as interesting as we want to call it, among other things, to deal with that kind of thing. But no, we said that we wanted to protect someone from being seized by the house, by not defining at all how it came to be long for someone not to take the house. Perhaps this debt is due precisely because someone could not collect their claims. But at the same time, we're not saying that in the same context they can be found in a series of 3, 4 craftsmen. He doesn't pay each other because he can't do the job, and in the end, three or four of them are in the same problems. This is also the problem with this provision of Article 36. Article 2.i 3. You can use a fat, fat abuse, so if nothing else by transferring the family home to someone else, you've automatically solved all the problems. And the other thing I said and my individual debate will be put in a situation that no one with craftsmen will make a deal if such an article 36 is to be made but to seek an additional guarantee for the services performed or for a possible loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40837	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40838	Thank you very much. Well, I deliberately pointed out to my colleague Shucker that craftsmen are more religious than debtors. Who does a craftsman owe it to? What kind of performer they were in charge of? Where did they buy the goods if they didn't pay for it? He can go to some bau one or one to pay in advance if he wants to buy anything, and then to collect his service, and the minister himself said that craftsmen in their product value are a greater share of services than materials then they seek their work. Only one who hasn't experienced what it means to be a cooperative of some big company, doesn't know what indifference means, which means non-payment, which means fighting. The contract says to a craftsman that he has the right to receive a signed note. He can't get it at all, he can't protest because he'll lose everything. I'm not going to name companies, but they have 2, 3 billion kunas, and now they're in pre-determined deals, which are most wanted by craftsmen and cooperatives. And by the way, I didn't invent the concept of tax amnesty, but that defines a business dictionary that says what the tax amnesty process is that we're engaged in, and we're doing the greatest injustice towards craftsmen because it's amnesty for those who owe the most to craftsmen. But one more, when you were talking about transfer or crafts or crafts, you should finally define what is being passed on by this legal proposal of crafts or crafts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40839	And the Djuro Replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40840	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So at the beginning of your debate, you immediately said and diagnosed the state of craftsmanship and craftsmen in Croatia. And that is why it is necessary to say again what the HOK has written in its address to the Croatian Parliament and MPs therefore assume and argue that this law will jeopardise the survival of artisans in the Republic of Croatia and this by devasting the trade profession, by jeopardising consumer protection and by creating unfair competition for craftsmen. All we listened to in these two days by the minister when he defended the existing provisions was, in fact, the defense, or was dealing with the craft chamber itself, and I suppose with one part of the management of the chamber that didn't like it. And he even mentioned that they are prone to HDZ, and that's obviously his fundamental reason for going into such an unnatural law and in such provisions as you're saying. And what did the minister do? So in Croatia there are also known in the world two typical forms of association of economic operators voluntarily or in chambers. So one has a mandatory membership system in the chamber, most Central European countries, and some do not. And the minister also does not have the courage to finally finish the story, whether voluntary membership in the chamber or mandatory is wanted in Croatia. But he's doing a hybrid unnatural, so he's leaving a mandatory membership, but he's rudely interfering with the organization of the chamber and the governance structure, and you're right. So he wants to control the mandatory chamber, there's no courage to clear it up whether it's voluntary or mandatory, but he wants to choose the president, he wants to determine membership and he wants to manage the system. Just because he wants the report of that chamber to go to the Parliament and that it affects the election, you said by giving consent to the president's election. This is unacceptable and it is an impossible and unsustainable situation in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40841	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40842	Thank you very much. Well, the biggest misunderstanding will come out of that first definition. If I said that craftsmanship is the activity of trained masters, and under this law that craftsmanship is any economic activity that is not prohibited by law will lead to great difficulties in the future of craftsmanship. And as for meddling in the selection of the ministry and the minister, I don't know about any animosities because I don't normally know that term. But if there is a law then you need to overcome certain personal animosities. This must not be an obstacle to quality law. But imagine how paradoxically it would sound if the minister tried to arrange for the Croatian Employers' Association who will be president and what will be the choice of the Croatian Employers' Association and how much membership they will pay and that they must all be in the Croatian Employers' Association. It was also the Law on Banks, and accordingly it was the Croatian Banks' Association. Imagine if we were to arrange for them how much membership they'd be. How will be formed and who will be the Director and Chairman of the Banks' Association And unions. [[And unions.]] This is a real precedent. Don't go after a precedent like this, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40843	And now we move on to the final word of the clubs. On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40844	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy... , Honorable ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and fellow MPs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, a final comment on this first reading of the Law on crafts. The debate lasted almost 2 days, which is not strange considering that at least 85,000 craftsmen are still alive. Who employ some 100 and a few thousand employees, and when we consider that it is the part of the Croatian economy through which more than 200 thousand Croatian families are provided, then we are absolutely clear about the importance of craftsmanship as in fact the most powerful, long-term branch of the Croatian economy. What is somewhat surprising and surprising to me in the Croatian People's Party, which in fact has raised questions about how to choose leadership in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and perhaps we have talked less about and we have discussed in detail the issues that must ensure business longevity, market equality, a better position, less burden on Croatian craftsmen themselves. Even for political purposes, the government’s efforts to dispel the economy in general even though the exact same methods with the exact same arguments had been applied before. But that's already been seen in the VAT debate when the furniture that raised the VAT from 22% to 23% for the same reasons this ruling set up. Now they find it necessary to challenge it. But back to the scale of things. What the Croatian People's Party would like to point out is that it is important to consider in this time between the first and second readings, in any case, that part of the law that could possibly lead tradesmen into a subordinate position or an unfair position with other business entities entering their business space. This also applies to the question of the additional work in which the list of professions in which people, or natural persons, can engage in secondary activities is abolished, is the right term. We're afraid if there's no criteria and it's not defined how and under what conditions... craftsmen can deal with the secondary activity so that we will open the space for unfair competition with Croatian craftsmen and endanger the difficult conditions in which they work anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also believe that the value of the status of individual craftsmen, i.e. their professional references, should not be devalued in such a way that companies are allowed to carry out, regardless of what activity they are engaged in, and that they can carry out without their employees or their own having the same reference. This cited examples of gas-installers, electroinstallers and I believe that the Croatian Chamber of crafts not without arguments made certain remarks. I therefore appeal to the ministry for further review and for the dialogue with the Croatian Chamber of crafts to be repeated so as not to make hasty solutions that would be harmful to Croatian craftsmen. However, in the part where we welcome, of course, the part where the ministry solves certain things that have been illogical in craftsmanship for many years related to the transfer of crafts, seasonal crafts and the like. But once again, we express the surprise, the heat, the intensity of the debate over the president's election. As a club, we express wonder, but I as an individual don't. Because as a 19-year-old craftsman and an active member of the chamber system for many years I've known the truth. You don't defend it, gentlemen, for the sake of principle, but to keep in the positions of all your party colleagues that you have envied in the chamber system in the last 15 years. That's the truth. Yeah. That's the truth. All your party colleagues you systematically installed in the chamber system to control Croatian craftsmanship and Croatian crafts chamber. From the pyramids of the Association of craftsmen to the regional craft chambers to the very top, only recently the arrival of Dragutin the Ranogajci has begun to improve. But not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40845	A fellow drinker is too late. But colleague Josip Boric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40846	Thank you very much. In your final debate, you have now said this very questionable sentence, says we are not defending principles here, not defending as the HDZ Club but defending his people who he has placed in certain positions within the crafts chamber. How do you even interpret that? If we're looking at the light of this law that you're proposing, then it's the opposite of this law being passed just because you move it all away and put your people inside because that's what comes from your final address. Probably for me, yeah, I understand logic. And then you tried to explain it through the story, so you did all this, especially the story of the statute, and then the VAT was equally raised from 22 to 23, as well as from 23 to 25. It was equally taken 2 billion or 6 billion from the pockets of Croatian citizens. It's all the same to you. I don't think it's the same for Croatian citizens either, and they show it to everyone every day, and even in every election, it feels that your policy, which has already been in place for the past year and a half, has been adapting all the legal acts to the very principle that you've been telling all the more of your staff to put into all the former or existing agencies and all the ones you've established, to take care of everything that you think you should then stay in the system, and you're parallelizing the story of rationalising management, reducing some rights and wages, etc., and here today we're going to have a nice discussion about HAMAG, and you'll see what those rationalizations of your expenses look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40847	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow fighter, don't at least speak about taking money from Croatian citizens because you are currently in court for taking money from Croatian citizens. ... You are currently in court proceedings as a party for taking money from Croatian citizens. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As a party...... Comrade Shucker, stick to the order in the Assembly, because if anyone is an example of misbehaving, it's you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40849	Please, colleague Baranovic, respond to the replica, and colleague Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40850	And as for the way you choose, I have presented the concrete facts that have occurred and that are in force, and you are constantly in these two days of debates reevaluating what will happen after such a law enters into force. We need to see what happens, which policy is more principled, which policy is not principled. Because one of the colleagues sitting in your line, and not present today, specifically conducted these operations in the Sibenik-Knin County area when it comes to the Sibenik-Knin County Regional Chamber. ... In particular, specifically, as an experienced coach in election processes, I agree with my colleague Shucker, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't, for God's sakes, give us a lesson in principle. ... /The noise in the hall./... Don't lecture us gentlemen on principle because you left that woman there in 30 steps all of them. ... That woman over there sitting in the canton. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40851	Please, colleague Baranovic, please, the debate has been good and long and let's not spoil it with such incursions and something that is not a topic. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40852	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I would agree, I would not want to spoil the same, of course, because I believe that this debate in the second reading will infuse that it will certainly raise awareness of what we talked about and there is certainly no one here in this House that does not want those 83,000 craftsmen to survive and 200,000 families that you spoke of as colleagues of Baranovic, and that is why we should look to the future to really preserve these jobs because in these circumstances it is invaluable preciousness. But we are also obliged to warn of what the Chamber of craftsmen and craftsmen are warning, to threaten the degradation of the profession, the decline of quality and, of course, the extreme threat of consumers. But I must also say here that I too must express a certain surprise, a surprise that I am also reading the intention of having an economic non-profit organisation put under control, and in that part I read a surprise where it is said about the statutes that in the statutes of opinion, a previous opinion by the Minister should be given to the statutes and acts. So far it's been a practice to give, so it's in accordance with the law. So what can be read other than to disrupt independence and control such a non-profit economic organization. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40853	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40854	Dear colleague Milinkovic, and in his own exposure, he is apostrophe that some things are not brought ad hoc, that we think carefully and that the Ministry should think carefully about certain parts of this law that could truly compromise craftsmanship, the existence of craftsmen and the conditions of their business. In that HNS, I personally am not running away from responsibility because responsibility is huge. This is a law relating to a huge number of people and to a huge number of families and their existence, and therefore we appeal to further think and restore communication, once again in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen about the equality and security of the existence of Croatian craftsmen and their employees. As for granting prior consent to the Statute or to internal acts, which is why certain things are prejudged before the practice is seen to produce results. And I stress that I have personally witnessed and been an actor of a series of situations where there were no true norms of democracy within the maritime system and respect for the constitutional rights of man to choose and be chosen. Constitutional rights. Decisions were annulled on the political order of the ladies and gentlemen, the violent political order. Therefore, let us not just give results and show how judgment will work in advance, and wash your hands of what has happened and what is still in one part of the strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40855	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40856	Honorable vice presidents, deputies, ladies and gentlemen. Here I will try to avoid all kinds of politics related to the Croatian Chamber of crafts and this practical bickering that is happening at the moment. And I would be much more pleased if we had used these two days to discuss the situation in craftsmanship and the economy of the Republic of Croatia, but obviously here is that at this point one of the most important problems of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and I must stress immediately on behalf of the HDSB club, regardless of how we viewed the chamber contribution as compulsory or optional, we also had the case with the Croatian Agricultural Chamber where we defined the law also by meddling as a state in one organization, one chamber to virtually end the membership fee and function the Agricultural Chamber. In my opinion, it was even crazy to hook up with an advisory service that entered the Agricultural Chamber, but it's not here right now. So, first of all, we advocate that if there is a certain law relating to a certain chamber, such a law and such a relationship should apply to all chambers. So, not only on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce but also on the Chamber of Commerce, the Medical Chamber, architects, engineers and all types of chambers that exist in Croatia, but also aware that if they cancel and, mandatory membership, the majority of these chambers as one association are practically starting to shut down because there is no basis for funding nor does this state budget allow. On the other hand, I have no objection to the election of the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the county and the lower ones taking place in one democratic way. So, the voice of anyone who's a member of the chamber. In my opinion, however, there is absolutely nothing to be done by a minister who will give consent both to the election and to the statutes. Well, then, the Minister of Health doesn't give his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her consent to the election of the president of the Croatian Medical Chamber. So there's a policy mix that I don't think is Minister Maras. However, this type of intention can be precisely if a man who is not in a particular political atmosphere is chosen which is desirable for the ministry. And above all, both the Ministry and the Government, but this Parliament must avoid it at all costs. One of the more important issues of this law, which has not been defined, is therefore still a question that is also related to that of the Constitutional Court, which is certainly the issue of the property that the crafter makes in the craftsman's possessions and guarantees possible failures in business. In any event, this cannot be the entire assets located on the OIB, but similar to those of companies, i.e. companies with limited liability to what constitutes the property of the craft itself. So, not a family house, not an apartment, not everything that's related to certainly one life of a craftsman's family. At this point, we have 83714 active crafts. In these few years, 50,000 crafts have been shut down by doing so and many, many systems of these great ones we talked about have disappeared not only in these two or three years, but I would have returned even to the conversion and privatisation where that number of crafts was far greater. The lack of large systems also has an important impact on the increase and number of crafts in the Republic of Croatia. And today, 166279 workers are employed in craftsmanship, a worker of 12.41% of the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia, and that number is in March 2013, a million 115 thousand 422. So here I hope that the Ministry will, along with these proposals from the Croatian Chamber of crafts as practically the most interested and with these remarks and suggestions that we have heard in this first reading, have first and foremost the strength and opportunity to change certain things until the second reading because this should first be related to the development of craftsmanship but also to the survival of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, but also to all crafts Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40857	Thank you very much. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40858	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vinkovic, you were talking about chambers, so the Doctor's office, and each has its own importance and importance for a particular profession. But you specifically emphasized the Agricultural Chamber of Agriculture, a Croatian agricultural which ended as it ended. But the problem is bigger. The chamber is finished, but these other services that were to take over part of the job and prepare our farmers to wait for this entrance that several speakers spoke of for several hours to join the EU, they did nothing at that time, did nothing. So here's the basic document, the milk package, you know what I'm talking about hasn't been passed. So now he's gonna need a producer's organization and all these jobs as well as when. It is said that 380m euros like this, 330 such that we will be able to withdraw from European funds. How and how they weren't prepared, when they didn't take over part of the job. And then these things will happen as they do today that our Croatian peasants are forced to come here in their fields to protest and speak and warn again, and that is what we have been warning from the very beginning. Here's the problem. Here's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40859	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40860	Well, it's not just a colleague Milinkovic's problem with the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, it's a problem for all those who deal with agriculture. But also a practical and certain unpreparedness for this EU entry in view of everything signed in pre-accession contracts. But if I don't go that far now, obviously there's still waiting for us to say that someone wouldn't get me wrong, let's say the tough days for the Croatian economy, but also for Croatian agriculture and Croatian craftsmanship, since one large majority of this entire resource of Croatia is not prepared for what awaits us in the EU where honey and milk do not flow, so that we understand each other immediately. As well as related to the Chamber of crafts, I would not like it to turn out that the main problem that we have discussed for two days is the choice of the president of the HOK or the County Chamber of craftsmen, giving consent to the minister which is practically and precedent, and in any case should not stand in the law because what does the minister have to do with the election of the President of the Chamber of craftsmen, but rather one broader problem which is also related to the system of education, related to the market, related to the crafts that exist, crafts that are practically with which we have a great chance in the EU that have been put out, where there are potentials especially in these traditional crafts. Also in agricultural production, etc., etc. And I think that given these 50,000 turns that are closed, we need to look first at the future and learn from history because history is a teacher of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40861	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40862	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, you told him about the precedent that took place in the Agricultural Chamber that membership in the Agricultural Chamber is no longer mandatory and that, in practice, the Agricultural Chamber has shut down. I think he's saying enough about both part of it and the awareness of the peasants, about the need to join together. Therefore, they should be interested in joining together as the craftsmen should be interested in joining together. But only association means volunteering, not imperative. So, we have to be good imperial friends. I mean, what kind of socializing is it if we have to hang out imperially? The other thing is if the state prescribes that when someone joins, when someone self-employed or employs an act of opening a craft that must become a member of an association, why not do the same thing when you get a job, you have to be a member of the union? Because if it's a ridiculous need for craftsmen to be in the Union of craftsmen, then it's a terrible need for every worker to be a member of the union because that union protects his fundamental rights. Therefore, we need to treat association in principle, and surely we need to think about it in the Chamber Law to see, to levelen our approach. Because someone before, I think that my colleague Maric was saying, quite certainly, that no one can think of telling the Chamber of Lawyers that they will elect the president and that the minister gives consent to the choice of president or the election process of the President or the Medical Chamber. They're not the ones they dare to hold grudges against, they're probably the craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40863	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40864	Well, my dear colleague, I only defined what happens when you say by law, so by not going into it, you need to discuss or conduct a survey that the minister did yesterday and said that a survey was conducted among the members of the Chamber of Commerce, but if you define by law that in one chamber it is not mandatory to pay a membership fee then believe that no one will pay him. Because this is not the time from 200 years ago when membership in these species and in the Czechs was a matter and prestige, etc. Today, first of all, there is a struggle for mere survival. So if the law defines that there is no obligation to join any kind of chamber I guarantee that most of these chambers will practically stop their work because they will probably remain just the president of the chamber without membership, without anything. But in any case, I don't think it's a good idea for the minister to give consent no matter what chamber the President of the Chamber is concerned with. The way the choice is to be made, whether by voting the whole membership, what should then be developed in this law, the way and the definition of the implementation of that, but I believe that this can also be done by the statute of certain chambers, rather than by law itself. But I don't mind that and in the Chamber of Commerce, but in both economic and all chambers, there's one vote for all of them. One member, one vote. They're some and political parties now have little to do with it, but it doesn't matter. So, I'm not going into whether the president of the HOK is going to be a member of one political option, the other, after all, doesn't have to be either. But it's his private matter, besides it's guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40865	And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40866	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So, from this debate that has been going on for over 10 hours on behalf of the HDZ Club and on behalf of their colleagues who have taken a very active role in the debate, one who is looking at a little bit and a phonogram of debate will then see that the HDZ Club does not want to deal with any politics but clearly crystallised three issues in which we disagree with the applicant because we think that in some debate they should be asked differently because of the well-being of Croatian craftsmanship and for three questions, we believe that they should be better technically completed in the law. For the simple reason that tomorrow, in the very application of the law, a craftsman would have no problem. So where we believe that the legislator and the legislator did not set things up well and that these things can tomorrow have a negative impact on craftsmen is primarily property, definition of the property of craftsmen and what the craftsman guarantees for his obligations. This Article 36., with its paragraphs 1, 2 and 3., draws us into a series of malfeasances, a series of bad things, and apparently we may seem to protect one craftsman but we do not protect that other craftsman who is a believer because under this Article 36 paragraph 2 when this law is passed no one with a craftsman will go into any business activity unless you give him an additional guarantee that Article 36(3) can be applied to him and that is to give him a guarantee on his remaining assets. And if we solve the asset problem clearly in the craft, we define it, which is tax laws, then it would logically impose on that craft as an economic operator, because by solving and dividing private assets with an economic nature, there are two OIBs. The next thing we agree on, not for reasons like some colleagues have said, but it is a matter we are looking for in principle, and in our debate, we have said why the ministers did not set such conditions for some other chambers to give what is for the Minister of Health, the Minister of Civil Engineering, the Minister of Justice's opinion on the statutes, and the chamber of interests that are in their portfolio and that their financial reports are discussed in this House. If it were so, then we could say it's the direction and policy of this government and it's their right to power are. But since this is not how it is done then it is obvious that it wants to do something else that is attributed to us, which is that complete craftsmanship and the Chamber of crafts is placed in order to say so by capu and simply to be banned from any critical action because, by failing to adopt the report or by not giving a positive opinion on the Government's report to the Croatian Parliament, it is clear that the practical management of the Chamber of crafts has to resign. As for schooling, so what once adorned craftsmanship and perhaps was the pride of every craftsman to raise a good master, it was the pride of every craftsman. And the crafts chamber was proud of her master's exams. That's what this law needs to bring back, to strengthen again. I was glad to hear today the debate between my colleague Lugaric and my colleague, Roksandić, you from these two discussions could not see that these were two colleagues from two diametrically opposed political clubs. So they've been arguing like people who, or ladies, however you want MPs who've spent their whole lives in protest. And that's good, and that's a clear indication that the legislator has to consider doing it better. So what we think we should technically do is transfer the crafts, and that's where we clearly defined why. It's not a craftsmanship. A twist is a series of other things from rights and obligations to property. Why? That property had tax treatment. We have a bad experience from the time when it was an expansion of the opening of a limited-responsibility society, and then it turned out to be bad because the law did not define itself when it comes from turning into a company so that there can be a lot of problems, so the law should make it clearer to define and comply with tax laws. What we also said if craftsmen are allowed to, unfortunately, stop working so that they can end up on the stock market and receive compensation, they should define the contribution to employment of what, what, what and what basis. And one more sentence, please, Madam Vice President. Complementary work, it was no matter how legal it was, it lays down both grey economies and unfair competition. I repeat, the person who is involved in supplemental work does not pay either pension or health because he already pays for it where he is regularly employed, and the person who has crafts all of this must pay together only with that basis are in an unequal position. So if the Proposer decides to discuss... the topic we're as a club ready to support this law, and if not unfortunately not. But I think it would be good if we passed this law by consensus, and I don't think these obstacles are that big that we couldn't get along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40867	We've got another reading, so we'll make a deal. Replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40868	Here's a colleague when you say that abuses are possible that there will be huge malfeasances in view of Article 36(2), where the wording is therefore prevented from being carried out over the property in which the craftsman lives. However, if the provision of paragraph 3 of Article 36 is applied, it shall exclude the possibility of this prevention of the application. So if, on the basis of a voluntary legal transaction with a craftsman, the believer concluded such a business that this believer had acquired a hostage or similar right to that property, then of course the exercise would be possible. And in this article, Article 36, which is hardly a provision that cannot be misused, but this provision of Article 36, you really need to be congratulated on that because it is precisely because of what you are saying to prevent such abuses that someone is in charge of creating debts to different suppliers of any kind of creditors, therefore there is a provision of Article 33 and it allows for the conclusion of legal work, borrowing and acquisition of publishing rights and the provision of such property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40869	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40870	Thank you very much. So, theoretically, my colleague Anticevic agrees with you, but unfortunately, I can't agree. And you forgot to read Part 2 of Article 36, which is far more important than this first one, because this 1 is going to be hard to go for a house fishing, etc. Because very few craftsmen will be so in debt that someone would prey on his house for that, but... real estate for carrying out an independent activity that is his main source of means to live. I think that's where you automatically drop it in the constitutional court. You, as an experienced lawyer, should know that because you are in an unequal position bringing some others to whom it is not so defined. But I don't understand why you're running away from this law to define what the property of a craftsman is? Why are you running away from it? What's the matter with you? And then why don't we bring the Company Act together when we do it? We have the exact same provisions in one form and another. Because look, company and crafts, it's just a way of organising someone who wants to do business. And then why don't we have the exact same provisions. But look, you, too, are being abused that if you feel that someone is going to prey on you or pass on something to someone else and say goodbye. ... But, fellow Anticevic, you said this afternoon one great lie, you said that someone factoring in society gave a tax claim. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You said someone factoring in the company gave a tax claim. It just shows your tax ignorance and I don't want to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40871	Col. Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40872	Well, here I am, here's the second day of claims that practically the biggest question is the property that's being entered into the crafts. Also with this law, and I'd like someone to convince me that my colleague Shucker has not yet been defined as the property of the craft. And I also remind you of the decision of the Constitutional Court, as I reminded it, and when the text of the Constitution was refined, when it was also the Rules of Procedure, etc. It still stands, which says there is also no constitutional and fundamental reason for companies to correspond to the entire assets and craftsmen only to an indeterminate part of their assets. So it's in the Constitutional Court's decision. And now here I am going, giving those 20,000 kunas, opening up a limited-responsibility society and practically for all successes or failures as a limited-responsibility society I guarantee with those 20,000 kunas because now that's less. As a craftsman, I answer to all my assets. And I make a deal with e.g. With one construction company not to mention other companies that have been in the media, etc., and they're pulling me over, I'm taking some material, I'm working as a copier and I go and the houses and, well, the whole family goes to the drum. And that's a problem that needs to be defined by law. One of the biggest problems is not the biggest how will be elected president of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, if one member is one vote, so let's do it and define but then for all chambers not only for the Croatian crafts chamber. But without the minister's consent, what does the minister have to give consent. But the question of property is the most important. I think I've shown it clearly. And after this sentence, I do not believe that any other Croatian or Croat or Croatian or Croatian citizen of Croatia will go, and break down, open a trade because they will continue to guarantee their entire assets, their grandfather's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40873	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40874	Thank you very much. Mr Vinkovic, you see we are saying that and we will be agreed by all craftsmen, all those who wish to engage in entrepreneurship and colleagues from the SDP that this is a great solution in Article 36. I don't understand why anyone bothers if they have a list of basic assets and a list of small inventory. Because he has to have it in his crafts shop, if he bought it, if it's a calculated depreciation, if it went into his expense, why wouldn't it be a property trade? You'll have trades that have property of several million kunas. But you also have crafts that may have property, they don't have a thousand kunas to carry out some service activities. And the logical thing is if I want to go to some business with you as a craftsman and if I think it's my job and some risk that I'm going to charge you for this job, I'm going to ask you for some other guarantee. Is this some kind of personal bond of yours, whether it's a mortgage on real estate, it's a matter of mutual relationship between you and me. So I'm taking a risk, why I'm going into business with you whether I'm going to charge or not, and you're going to be at risk if you fail at that job that you're going to lose something. And that's something that's in entrepreneurship a perfectly normal thing. But no, we just want to politically show that something good that the craftsmen themselves say isn't what we don't want, we want you to finally define our assets and that our property is a guarantee of what we do. If we make a deal with someone else, it's our personal matter. And so that's something that's not good. And this, some kind of hybrid solution that can lead to a series of abuses and these kinds of abuses are 16 and some more thousands of businesses without any employee who owes 20 and some billions of kunas, which are founded precisely because of someone being deceived. Well, not everyone who opened the craft just went to trouble for no reason. But also what you said in the end, many big ones paid for the job and didn't pay the craftsmen, and the craftsmen unfortunately came into trouble. And that's our problem, and that's what we need to do with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40875	Thank you. Final word of Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and craft Drazen Pros.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40876	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the promoter, I thank you for this extensive and constructive debate. It lasted two days. We've heard a lot of good, well-intentioned, quality, we've heard some other things. But in any case, all of these, of all your comments and suggestions and suggestions, we will take into account, consider and safely until the next reading, the second reading of this Proposal for the Law on craftsmanship, actually bring one such Law on craftsmanship which will therefore be in favour of all craftsmen. Not some, part of it, some stakeholders who manage it but indeed all craftsmen who actually need and who are part of a small economy that should once again be a driver and an economic recovery and further growth and development of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40877	Thank you very much for closing the debate. This bill of law will be made known later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-05-0.u40878	Proposal for a law on crafts, first reading, PZ No. 370, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law on craftsmanship is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, with 78 votes in favour, 28 against and 10 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
