ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40879	We move to: - Report on the business of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investment in 2012; Reporter is the Croatian Small Economy Agency based on Article 15. A law to encourage the development of a small economy. You've received the material into the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, the president of the HAMAG administration, Mr Darko Liovic, will also explain the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40880	Dear Madam Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Before you there is a report on the work of HAMAG in 2012. If in a few sentences I would also like to describe in a few words the work of the agency in 2012 then I would say that it was a year full of challenges as it was full of challenges for Croatian entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, that it was a year of change, but I also have to say that it was a record year at least in terms of the issue of HAMAG guarantees, because since 1994 Hamag has been in spite of the recession, despite the situation in the Croatian economy as it has achieved a record number of guarantees issued. And just as the Management of HAMAG, we recognized the guarantees as the most important, most important instrument for encouraging small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and I must say that in the first part of the year, the biggest part of the attention and attention of the new administration was, therefore, aimed at strengthening guarantees as an instrument for fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. In this regard, I must say that government support, i.e. the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Trade, has been increased primarily from 1 billion kuna to 2 billion kuna, and we have also made a number of other changes in the first part of the year, so that these guarantees could in a stronger and better way encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We have modified the guarantee programmes that we have simplified, which we have systematized, we have introduced a significant number of news into our guarantee programmes so that we have designed three completely new guarantee programmes, a Leasing programme, a censure programme as well as letters of intent for beginner entrepreneurs. All these changes, of course, I have to say that they've also reflected in numbers. Another change which is therefore important and which is important for the reference is the return of the banking sector's trust in the HAMAG Invest guarantee as an instrument of insurance. In that sense, I must say that we have joined new negotiations with business banks and that we have signed 22 cooperation agreements with Croatian business banks where we redefine the HAMAG Invest guarantee which has now become a much stronger insurance instrument in such a way that it is a guarantee on the first call. The results in 2012 are particularly visible in the last quarter when in the last three months of 2012, we supported a total of 153 projects in the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector compared to 112 projects supported throughout 2011, which actually means 40% increase in one quarter compared to the entire previous year 2011. If we compare the figures at the level of the whole year then I must say that in 2012 through HAMAG Invest we supported a total of 243 projects in the small- and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector, unlike 112 projects in 2011, we issued 315 million kuna guarantees in 2012 compared to 154 million kuna in 2011. In the same way, I must say that we have almost doubled the number of investments, i.e. the value of investments thus supported by HAMAG Invest guarantees increased from 494 million kuna in 2011 to 924 million kuna in 2012. What I especially look forward to and must point out is the diversification of portfolios of guaranteed guarantees and the diversification of portfolios I would say in different ways and regions, which makes me particularly happy that Osijek-Baranja County and Split-Dalmatia County have taken a significant share in the number of guarantees issued. There has been a diversification of portfolios and by banks, so HAMAG Invest is now recognized by other business banks, not only by state banks. In addition, the fact is that in 2011 by the number of requests received, 42% therefore came from state-owned banks in order to reduce the number of claims, i.e. the share of the number of state-owned banks in the total number of applications, from 42 to 23%. There has also been diversification of portfolios and by industries, which is very, very important because we have been the agency that has mainly issued guarantees in previous periods under agriculture programmes for the operational programmes of the Government of Croatia, and now it is seen that the portfolio is extended to other activities, and above all I am thinking about production activities, the processing industry, and also the service sector, i.e. the tourism industry. As regards the value of the guarantees paid, a total of 17.3 million kuna was paid from the Croatian budget in 2012 and I must say that again the prevailing share has a Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which paid over 80% of these funds. In addition to guarantees, the agencies shall, of course, carry out other activities and other activities, and above all, it shall be about the distribution of grants. HAMAG Invest has participated in four projects in the past year, such as New Technology, Market Positioning to Success, Entrepreneur and Association Entrepreneurship. And I must say that out of the total estimated 32 million kunas planned for the payment of incentives, the total amount paid to Croatian entrepreneurs is 31.8 million kuna, which means that projects were implemented on average with 97.7% What is also important to note is that the changed philosophy granted support in such a way that entrepreneurs were given the support in the maximum amount they requested so that the average amount of aid granted was €220000 in 2012 compared to €38000 in the amount of the average amount of support paid to the agency in 2011. In total, therefore, we received 3282 requests for grants, which totalled 204 support. What I want to point out is that for the first time since the draft agency, we have introduced and control the dedicated spending of funds and this field control of the dedicated spending of funds where HAMAG INVEST employees are therefore checking directly with entrepreneurs who have been granted support as well as how funds have been spent, i.e. the purpose of spending of these funds. There are still activities related to the support of consulting services through the issue of vouchers so that a total of 925000 kunas were paid for 120 vouchers in 2012. And one new activity and one new activity of the agency, so that was brought before the end of the year in a way that HAMAG actually became a Croatian retail agency now and investment is, therefore, a business that is linked to the promotion of investment and investment environment. This is therefore the job that we have just started in the 10 months preceding year and the main task was to identify projects in the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector in a way that those Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen who are looking for partners to implement projects that will not be able to realise loans in the business banks or get a guarantee from HAMAG INVEST, HAMAG INVEST now, thus helping to find potential investors both on the domestic and foreign markets. A catalogue of investment projects in the small and medium-sized enterprises was generated in the previous year. The value of these projects was then 422 million kuna. The average size of these projects was 12 million kuna. As I said, so all these activities went in the direction of the stronger engagement of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments by creating such an agency that will indeed become a real and real service to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. And let us see if there is still time to just mention some basic activities that started in 2012, and we expect the realization in 2013 that will also lead to entrepreneurs, to Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen, so HAMAG becomes a real service. It is therefore a project joint in cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development where we launched a project to co-finance consulting services in the field of renewable energy and energy savings. So it's a project in collaboration with the EBRD that started last year totaling 1.2 million kuna. I would also like to point out that we will start in 2013 very quickly with a micro-credit project, direct micro-credit of entrepreneurs. Therefore, it will be small loans up to 70000 kn with extremely favourable conditions for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Also, two other things that are very, very important. Here a few days ago he was signed with the Croatian Credit Union Association. So this is where we signed with credit unions also cooperation agreements in such a way that HAMAG INVEST will issue guarantees and credit unions. We wanted to sort of expand the circle of potential creditors. One fund of 5 million kuna was created that will enable entrepreneurs to easily join the credit union and only with the guarantee of HAMAG INVEST, so without other insurance instruments, so I think primarily on real estate, i.e. the stock on real estate, thus allowing the arrival of funds. And of course what was adopted as an amendment to the Small Economy Development Act is therefore the merger of the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency BICRO. So we also think that in this way we will create one strong agency that will then be able to help entrepreneurs in some way from their own ideas, so from research and development, so through product commercialisation, and then, of course, when these entrepreneurs do not give God into certain difficulties through, therefore, guarantees for restructuring loans, etc. So these were short numbers, these were briefly indicators of the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments. I thank you for your attention and, of course, I'm willing to answer every question you ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40881	Thank you very much. Replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40882	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Liovic, this is how when statistics are heard, they can be interpreted twice. Even some of them seem impressive. You're doing great, you're issuing guarantees. But every activity must be monitored on the other side. You have expressed satisfaction with your activities and have indeed been active. Here I express my dissatisfaction with your activity. I'd be happier if you were less active. Let's say you here boast about how you're recognized by business banks and that you give guarantees to business banks, for individual entrepreneurs. The point of credit ratings is to take risks. Of course, banks avoid risk and, of course, they care that the state guarantees everything, guarantees savings roles, guarantees entrepreneurs as well. But this all you said shows that our system isn't working, that our entrepreneurs are extremely low in self-financing, that it's low in capitalisation of these companies, that banks don't trust in entrepreneurship and that entrepreneurs don't have enough assets and guarantees for activity. The truth is that by your activity you saved the situation because there would be an even greater reduction in overall economic activity. But in the end, this is an indicator that you are a more active indicator of the larger disease of the economic system. Because the state took a risk to everyone and left everything to the market economy. Imagine the state no longer guarantees state but guarantees private banks and more and more. So what's the bank gonna do? So which bank, we brag about how the bank wants to take your guarantee. So who wouldn't take a state guarantee? And that's why I'm glad you were very active, but you need to take it with caution and it's particularly protesting 23 guarantees and 17 million kunas you paid on behalf of the guarantee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40883	Replication response, Darko Liovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40884	I thank you for your suggestion. Of course guarantee agency, the Croatian Guarantee Agency was founded in 1994. So we have not now begun to issue guarantees in 2012, the Guarantee Agency has been acting for more than 15 years. It's true what you said, the truth in some way can be an indicator of the situation in small and medium enterprises, and I can agree with that. However, if it hadn't been for the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments, we must say that a good part of investments in small and medium-sized enterprises would not have really been realised and that a good part of entrepreneurs and craftsmen would actually be more difficult to survive under these conditions as they do today in the Croatian market. So, in this sense, it is absolutely certain that this agency is needed and also other countries are, in particular, increasingly and more so coming from a direct support system, so giving grants to other financial instruments, where guarantees are, in fact, one of the most qualitative instruments to encourage entrepreneurship. Therefore, it is not a novelty, it is not something new, it is something that has been done for the past 15 years and not only in Croatia but also in other countries. If you do not feel that Croatia really needs to rule through the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency to take more risks to help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs then it is the right of course to you, your right personally and the right of your club, or HDZ to which you belong. I personally believe that the state should make even more efforts to facilitate the business of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. As for therefore a payment of 17.3 million kuna, these are payments, however, for guarantees issued mainly between 2005 and 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40885	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the club... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40886	I wouldn't want it to be transferred again if we were deeply unhappy that there was no pause. However, I think this way of the Croatian Parliament is totally inappropriate. Look, 13.30 is scheduled for a meeting of the Committee on Economy, and we have here an extremely important point where people sitting on the Committee on Economy should discuss. So this way we don't regret the break, so it doesn't go wrong again, this way we can't work. We delayed our duties yesterday, so it's no problem if we have to work without a break, if we have to work late at night so it's no problem at all, we'd just be begging that at the beginning of the session we say. Perhaps a colleague of Radjenovic would then move the Committee on Economy, which has not been maintained now because there is no quorum, and I would ask the Assembly's presidency nicely on behalf of the club in this way cannot work. What the ministers don't want or can't come to the Parliament is their problem. But I'd just be begging that in time, so we're not against working at break time just me asking you nicely to at least tell us in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40887	Thank you very much. I accept your suggestion at the beginning of this morning's session, but I just said a little before 12:00 today we're going to be working so we don't have a break. We can't, unfortunately we can't predict at all how long the debate on a single wheel will take. You see that this point of the previous debate lasted more than 10 hours, that we now have the same number of clubs registered, that fellow Mimica has other obligations, and without it we cannot discuss the next point. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Đuro Popioč. Here you go. And we'll make sure we tell the meeting plan in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40888	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Director, Deputy Minister, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. So right at the beginning, I'm also going to refer to Mr. Director's reply, so it's true that HAMAG is 10 years old, 11 years old. So it is a state agency that was created in 2002, which is also a legal follower of the Croatian Guarantee Agency which was from before. However, the way, criteria and the guarantee approval mechanism was completely different than today. I'll talk about it a little bit later. So, during all those years of course there you were right agency was focused on encouraging the development of the sector of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The fact is that the sector of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is today the most vital part of the Croatian economy and, in part, thanks should be given to the activities that HAMAG has spent the past 10 years. In 2011, around 90,000 small companies operated in Croatia with an average of 4 to 5 employees, about 1,300 medium-sized enterprises with 100 or slightly more employees. The share of medium-sized enterprises in GDP has always been around 50 per cent. There were about 550,000 employees in them. That's more than 65% while here for the comparatives it worked about 280 to 290 thousand, which is about 34%. If we add about 86 thousand crafts and around 198 thousand employees in the crafts, it is possible to determine how important this segment of the economy is for Croatia. It is therefore also important in which and in what environment these entrepreneurs work and operate, given that this segment is a completely private character, i.e. as a rule private entrepreneurial enterprise. And it is precisely in this segment that you can fully see how the state refers to private entrepreneurship and where they work. This is particularly true for state bodies which have a primary role in promoting the development of medium and small entrepreneurship, and this HAMAG INVEST is today. And for this reason, it was expected that the report itself would find at least a minimum of some indicators of those why the agency actually works and because of which it exists. Unfortunately, however, it is our impression that the report is more like an earring of the PR agency which is the sole aim of creating a picture of the superior range of the new management of the HAMG and HAMAG INVEST today but also to justify the strange and ridiculous roles of this agency that this government has played with its changes, and I see that it continues to fully change the role and purpose for which this guarantee agency should exist. And at the beginning of the report, it says that the year 2012 is the year of the new beginnings. Obviously, you really think the world started with you, just like your minister, and we've been listening to him for two days here. I would say, unfortunately, that was a year of new beginners, experimenting, methods of trying and failing, and the results are obvious. The constant decline in social product, so 1.3% but from the decline already achieved in last year to 2012. The increase in the number of unemployed, the lack of investment, the deterioration of business conditions, the decline in consumption and everything that is unfortunately expressed every day by increasingly black figures of the government's work. All of this is obvious and it all disproves everything we've heard and in the light of this report, and what we're hearing from the government's representatives. Here are a few notes about the findings mentioned in the report itself. What exactly happened to the guarantees? The relevant change concerns an agreement with the business banks and the HBOR where HAMAG INVEST guarantees become for most of the guarantees banks on the first call and a first-class insurance instrument. Representative Maric has already said something about it. Therefore, the HAMAG guarantee becomes the first-class state guarantee to be activated on the first call. So please imagine the enthusiasm of banks when the state puts itself so generously in the first payment order for private loans to entrepreneurs. So far, state guarantees have only been given to state-owned enterprises and we see how it usually ends, and the guarantees given by HAMAG in the previous period have had a different character and have been allocated in a different way. There's no telling what kind of insurance instruments Hamag predicted here for these guarantees and whether it was at all. So now let's see in these circumstances what the results are. In the section on guarantees, the report is almost ridiculously concerned with comparisons with 2011 although, if that finding is taken into account, these are incomparable things. Guarantees to repeat are now state first-class guarantees, which is an important difference compared to 2011 and all other years ago. In such circumstances, HAMAG issues 243 guarantees and compared to 112 of them in 2011 it is placed in some context of success. Now is this figure something that should cause such enthusiasm or is the expression of a serious downturn in economic activity because 90,000 business entities in the middle and small entrepreneurship are asking for 350 loans and 243 guarantees are issued with a state guarantee, so first-class state guarantee? What is it we judge ourselves but I think the best thing about it is the economic results themselves. So the decline in economic activity, the decline in production, the decline in industry, the decline in number of craftsmen, the fall in everything, despite the country's generous attitude towards private lending. Of course, it is necessary to find quality and good mechanisms to enter entrepreneurial ventures that especially beginners have the opportunity to create a business-quality business venture but I think you should learn something from banks. And of course banks are more or less private banks, so I don't know which state banks have been so generously giving these loan requests other than HBOR and possibly Post Office Bank in the past. If you look at the data from previous years' reports and before, all banks have participated in this, but of course under different circumstances given the role of HAMG and the character of these guarantees. And it should not, regardless of the nominal increase in the number of guarantees issued and some increased credit activities it is extremely small and extremely bad given the character of the guarantees that HAMAG INVEST has produced in the past year. Or about the support, so you're talking about having implemented 4 projects in the area of support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. For this, €32.5 million was foreseen in 2011. This support has arrived for 3208 applications and 204 support has been shared and you have divided 31 million. So here's to say that in 2011, when you're already comparing and it's inappropriate to put such a comparison in such a report that in 2011, there were indeed about 3000, 3100 requests but 1808 support was granted and 56 million kuna was distributed. What kind of success is that now? What's that? I mean, I had no intention of speaking this way at all, but you've actually distorted the entire report by comparing yourself to something, and we see that it's not comparable in those segments. So 31 million kuna in 2012, 56 million kuna in 2011. And you're talking about the first time you've ever controlled that support. So here you see, now I'm going to tell you which 1808 companies received support in 2011 and that 56 million kuna. These economic operators made 12 billion kunas of revenue 804 million kunas a year earlier and had 27 thousand employees. You said here that for the first time you went and that you were in control or I don't know about any tours of the firm that were being supported to see how they were, how they used them. Or guarantees or whatever. We didn't see except for that note that you found a few of those improperly used aids there. The rest of us think you spent taxpayers' money on those trips. Is it better to have 204 lucky people who got 31 million kunas or 1808 small and medium-sized enterprises that divided 56 million kunas? The effects are obvious, therefore, in the results of economic, macroeconomic indicators. That's what he's talking about. Of course, not only did this contribute to HAMAG or, therefore, the entire economic policy essentially culminated strongly in it. And what you're saying is that HAMAG Invest has a new role and that's encouraging investment. The text states that HAMAG INVEST aims at visiting the world of agency representation as first and central points for foreign investors. Please decide which agency in Croatia is actually in charge of investments. Or maybe it's a practice in action that every minister has to have his own investment agency. Some ministers have more. And the Energy Investment Center, so I don't know how to encourage this, uh, obviously Minister Maras wants his agencies. Obviously, Minister Maras wants to have his HBOR, too, under quotes, because you are now saying that if we understand correctly, it will be an agency that will directly lend entrepreneurs. We see that he doesn't just want to put chambers under his jurisdiction, he wants to have banks, he wants to share a little bit... This obviously isn't enough for him to have in middle and small entrepreneurship, so he created city agencies completely into something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what can be concluded here in the end. This report, unfortunately, offers, instead of content, a form which is in fact the disastrous results of this government's economic policy, in a make-up report, trying to show in a different light. And comparisons that do not belong in this report completely distort the facts and thus manipulate the public. So we can't accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40889	Thank you. And the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40890	Well, a fellow Popijac is likely to discuss the implementation of the 2012 state budget next Tuesday or Wednesday. And I'm just wondering if in the State Budget Implementation Report there's going to be this guarantee that he gave... Why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because each guarantee, especially one such first-class guarantee, is a potential increase in public debt. And as in all past reports... I expect I did not look at this report but I will look at it now these days, I expect to see whether the guarantees issued by HAMAG are in the report on the implementation of the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I repeat, every guarantee is a potential increase in public debt. Not in a year, it could be two or three years. Because at the end of the day, let's remember those huge guarantees that the state had to give to the shipbuilding in order for the shipbuilding to survive. And then when that whole story moves into political waters then we say, actually, the government says, we're left with 12 billion kunas of unpaid liabilities. Which simply isn't true. Simple guarantees have been made into the obligation of the state to pay for it in the next 5, 10 years depending on what is, what is the maturity of the loan. But unfortunately, the state will have to pay for it. What the people say is not neck, but neck. But that's how it's going to happen in part of these guarantees that the state is going to have to pay one part of those loans and again we can talk not necks, but necks. Therefore, on the one hand, we are helping, and on the other hand, we must be aware of the fact that tomorrow this is causing one potential risk to increase public debt. That's why it shouldn't be euphoric in these things. Especially in these times of crisis. Because simply the need for these guarantees shows that there is a bad situation with our entrepreneurs. They just can't get credit because they're undercapitalized, unfortunately, over 90% of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40891	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40892	Yeah, well, that's what fellow Shuker is all about. We're not talking about the fact that HAMAG doesn't have to give guarantees and that it's good that some 250 companies get a guarantee, let them, some start... It's all right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you have to have a simple measure of when something tries to glorify itself that way and compares to data that are actually incomparable. So that's why we're saying that these are first-class state guarantees that have the same character as the shipbuilding guarantees whether or not they're coming back. If they do not return, it means that it will go to the burden of the state budget and it will be much easier than these 12 million kunas that the director is talking about, that is, the president... Forgive me, no, yes, that have come upon the burden of HAMAG, of course, the state budget, guarantees that have been issued before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also know today that over 14% of the outstanding claims, i.e. loans, are in commercial banks. So, if all of this is taken into account when these guarantees are here in this way and assigned, the effects are unfortunately very small, generally looking. And it's clear and open to say what kind of character they have. If the state has so much money, share a lot more guarantees. But unfortunately, there's not even enough interest in such guarantees. Despite what they're... The bank's guarantees managed to produce only 300-50 credit claims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a little bit. That's a little relative to the character of what these guarantees really provide. Only in this context when the report is already dealing with the comparison of incomparable importance is to say here and in front of the whole public what this means, essentially, and what the actual and final effect these guarantees have and achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40893	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40894	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Popioč, here's what I'm replicating to the part where you said this looks like a copy of the PR agency that was supposed to show this agency's performance or the agency's work as successful in 2012. I'll just remind you that we recently discussed the 2011 HAMAG report, and that's when the report was evaluated, let's say negatively, as complete ignorance. And then I'm reading a statement here by an esteemed management president who says from an agency that is its own purpose will become an agency that has a purpose. And what I'm looking at on page 27, by two, we have guarantees, we have support, and 27 pages we're dissipating what's been going on in the past year, and there's less. Let's look at the income and expenditure bill, and it's all clear. Revenues from the 2011 budget 68, 2012 60, subsidies 2011. 53, now 31. We've been listening for a year and a half to see how much more has actually been done in this country with less money, and then back to the table they delivered again, the display of the support granted and what you said. Are we going to satisfy 200 of them, then share them with much less money from the budget, or are we going to satisfy them by 1800 and help them survive on this market with less support? That's the fundamental difference. They estimated that in strengthening competitiveness it was much better to provide 5 times less support, to beginners 20 times less support, and they completely abolished entrepreneurship in culture or help it more with support or in any other way. And then it's efficient and we're finally walking around the field, and we managed to get 170 000 kunas back that were accidentally spent, and let's forget it when we see that all we saw was that the only thing that grew in that agency last year from 5 million to 7 million 200 million costs and expenses for employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40895	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40896	Yeah, that's obviously the way when you think that if you put beautiful color icons and some naturally respected entrepreneurs who have decided to put their character in a report like this, whether it's appropriate or not to let all individually judge it, however, the essence of what the effect of this work is generally achieved. So with definitely less appropriations in 2012, although we listen all the time and we have listened before that for the first time the total budget for support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs has increased to 700 million kuna, which is of course also a hoax because of this almost 400 million kuna money is intended for funds for economic co-operation. It's less and less than it's ever been before, but it's trying to get some numbers, manipulations and games of these numbers to show in fact that there's a new structure, new people, new faces, just because they're making a more sophisticated report, much more efficient and better. But again, unfortunately, the whole economic picture is all over the place, and all economic indicators are talking about the failure of the entire economic policy, but of course all the accompanying institutions and services that follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40897	Thank you. Next replica Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40898	Dear colleague, I really don't understand, you're saying that the facts of this report are being distorted here, and these are the fundamental facts based on documents and the realization of all the guarantees and support that have been made. I don't see what it's all about. And you're talking about aids and subsidies that they've been reduced, you're basically your entire government policy and your ministry based on support and subsidies, but without control. This is also evident from this report that it can no longer pass, and if I am not mistaken and the report and we know by the new laws that are related to support that this support will no longer go the way it was done. Therefore, the economy is being assisted through guarantees, not through support and subsidies which cannot go through anyway, especially because they are jeopardising the competition that the European Commission is now going to be doing instead of AZTN.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40899	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Drinker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40900	First, all the support given to medium and small entrepreneurship was, unfortunately, always small and remained small, so it is always 300, 350 million kuna and what has already been created for a long time, so the mechanisms themselves have been done and allocated under... rules of competition, control of AZTN and I would say that perhaps the only system of support that has been arranged and in line with the rules of the European Union has been long and precisely that segment. Unfortunately, neither we nor today can see that these support is more generous, that I cannot find a place in the budget to be much more generous and much more quality. And I also told you in my introduction here that support was generally granted and only to those entrepreneurs who had a positive economic impact. And this is the presented data, so in 2011, they were assigned to those entrepreneurs who made 12 billion kunas of total income, who made 804 million kunas of profits and who employed a total of 27 thousand employees. It was the only criterion, nothing else. And I can, of course, accept that politics is different now, to give more support to a smaller number of entrepreneurs, okay, we'll see what the effects will be and how finally and the satisfaction of the entrepreneurs themselves will be compared to that change.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40901	Thank you. The president of the HAMAG administration Darko Liovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40902	I thank you very much for all your suggestions and suggestions and reviews I can say which of course you referred to the work of HAMAG. I think it is not correct, of course, to compare the general situation in the economy and then compare it with the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments. It is known which segment of the economy is responsible for the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments. And the figures directly related to the sector show something different and the situation, and these figures are the following. In 2012 the number of employees increased by 2.7% compared to 2011 in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Also in total revenues, the small economy in 2012 increased by 1.4% compared to 2011 and what makes me particularly happy and happy is that the increase in export revenues, hence in 2012 has increased by as much as 11.3% compared to 2011. So these are all some positive trends and positive results. And I hope that just as part of these results stems from the efforts of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments. The fact that we have problems in the large economy sector, that we inherited, that we inherited what big businesses need to be restructured is simply not correct on the burden of either the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, but also on the burden of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments. I'm surprised your debate, therefore, is about guarantees where you question whether we need guarantees or whether we don't need guarantees. So, I think that this really is the policy that implements the EU and EU countries today at all is not questionable and that financial instruments and guarantees are precisely one of the most important instruments for fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. So, even in European countries, and it will gain more and more importance. I understand your concern about the fact that our guarantee has become a first-class guarantee for business banks. Yes, we stand behind this government and the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments wants to take more risks, wants to free up the possibility of as many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs as possible coming into a situation to fund the realisation of their projects. And yes, we want as many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs as possible to have easier access to capital. If we hadn't made that change, these figures would have been worse than they were in 2011, not better than they are. However, what I would like to inform you is that we do have an answer to this and we are working intensively on that answer. Two days ago, we had a delegation from the European Investment Fund where we're agreeing on a counter-guarantee arrangement. So, that all the guarantees that the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency will issue in the future, the European Investment Fund, I hope, if we pass, so this process of revision that has started, so a few days ago will be resecured or in some way counter-guarantee will be issued where some of the risks will then be transferred to European institutions. And if I were not to talk about the internal structure of the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency, where we still had to, given that we give the first-class guarantee to increase the level I would say, i.e. the strictness of the allocation of the guarantees themselves, and this is visible from the following data. Therefore, this stricter procedure led to 16% of all requests for guarantees being rejected in 2011, while in 2012, the percentage was approximately the same at around 35%. So I'm keeping an eye on what projects are, we're keeping an eye on who we're guaranteeing, and of course we're not playing with government money, but on the contrary. So, we act with the good master's attention, we take care therefore that, of course, increased activity in terms of issuing guarantees will lead to more funding being issued from the state budget in the future, but we have mechanisms as well as how we will protect the state budget and these two mechanisms that I've been talking about go in that direction. As far as the funds are paid and your suggestions for support are concerned, it's just a matter of statistics. Very simply, in 2012, part of the projects was transferred from HAMAG to the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. Those money didn't disappear. So in 2012, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts gave more funding compared to 2011 only here we had an accident not to implement 4 but 3 projects anymore. Indeed, this is the main reason why the amount of funds with 56 million kuna, which was indeed in 2012 now in 2012 was 31 million kuna. As I can't say for 2013 now, we've doubled the budget because now we have 70 and something million, so a total of 73 million kuna. Again, it is a different system of work and that part of the project has been transferred, so from the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts to the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments. As for the expenses you've mentioned. Yeah, that's normal when you do more, when you have more activity in some way, then it inevitably requires costs. But you mentioned the exact cost of the salary, so it amounted to 5.7 million kuna in 2011, and in 2012. 7.2 million kuna. If you had read the report a little bit more in detail then you would have seen that the result is in the following facts. The first return of six workers from the family who were employed, so at the time of your government. The average number of employees changed from 48 to 49. So, we've done this whole job. So 4 times I'd say if we were looking quarterly in 2012 compared to 2011, four times more jobs with only one more employee compared to 2011. That's one reason. The second reason is that the payment is also made to the former president of the administration. Unfortunately, I didn't get a chance or get any severance in my contract, so unfortunately I won't enjoy those benefits. But that's one of the reasons why the cost of the salary in 2012 increased so drastically compared to 2011. So, in addition, the other costs, of course, agree with you, so the field checks in which we are going to insist that the entrepreneurs know that when they get state resources that they have to have some way with them in the way that they reported in the project, that we will insist on these field checks and we will carry out field checks further because we believe that we will make it possible to use these funds more efficiently and ultimately that this will lead to new advantages. I'm just gonna get back to my payday. Also in 2011, since at the end of 2011 and at the beginning of 2011, HAMAG INVEST was not a budgetary user because of the accounting method, one month’s salary cost in 2011 was less than in 2012 so that this cost is pure truth, so 11 months in 2011 and 12 months in 2012. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40903	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40904	I'll look back on this part of you where you said it wasn't correct to put on the back of HAMAG a total economic picture in Croatia. Then, in parallel with that, it should be said that it is not correct that you are then boasting of some increase of 2.7% of employees not', because if you are not important for either one then you are not important on this other one to talk about when some employment is growing among small medium-sized entrepreneurs or some of their incomes. Either you're important to everyone or you're not important to anything. I'm still in your position that you may not have recognized the moment and that your philosophy is to blame. This is evident by the number of aid applications received, 1207 in 2011, 1912 to boost competitiveness. That's 700 more requests for you to give it 5 times less allocated. So people wouldn't answer if they didn't understand or try to understand your policy that you're declaring. Then there'd be fewer in me, right? But your problem is that you obviously can't provide enough money for all of them and all of this that you've listed here has not helped solve unemployment in the Republic of Croatia because you said here it says on one page that you've invested I don't know how many 400 million kuna guarantees for 345 open jobs. It's a small help, but let's look at the number of unemployed in 2012 the fifth month last year 306,000, today 328 thousand at the end means the fifth month. The difference is big, HAMAG has not fulfilled its purpose, and what you're saying is that you're doing it four times more than some former administration, etc., it just doesn't show from these figures. Whatever it was for you, Mr. President, the board of directors. I don't see it, really.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40905	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here's a colleague of Liovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40906	So I thank you for your suggestion. I didn't say we didn't matter or matter for one segment or another of the economy. I just said that we should compare it to so to say Colloquially, perhaps not to offend Croatian entrepreneurs of pear pears, apples with apples. So we can't compare the whole economy, but we can compare the sector of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and I said what trends are. Thus, trends are an increase in income, an increase in exports and an increase in the number of employees. So that's what I'm talking about. As for the number of jobs you've opened, we want it to be as much as possible. It is not 345 but 849 open jobs through HAMAG INVEST guarantees. And therefore, for your observation on how much support is given, we still think that philosophy is that the support is distributed to a large number of small entrepreneurs in small amounts, a policy that is not good, and that we should encourage the highest quality and best entrepreneurs at the highest amounts. And we think that politics will get results. Of course, these effects cannot be seen immediately, they will be visible, so they are already visible in the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector in 2012 and I hope that 2013 will be even more pronounced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40907	Thank you, too. Next line, Djuro Poppie. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40908	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I thought I could put you in that category of young and capable, not a politician, but I see you're taking the steps of your chief of staff, Minister Maras. So, I'm not bringing it in, and I haven't questioned it, and when you're trying to act like a politician here, then listen. So, in no segment at all, I have not said that I question guarantees, or HAMAG as a fundamental and guarantee as a fundamental always role of this HAMAG. I'm just saying that you're inappropriately comparing like you are now saying pears and apples. HAMAG's guarantees 10 years ago or by 2011 were one thing, HAMAG's guarantees today are another thing. And no one's challenging you. If you have 10 billion, if Linic gives you that, then you share those guarantees so what? Of course! Take it as a task and increase that portfolio, only why there are only 200 and I don't know how many, why? So that's the point of the problem. It's not the point of the fact that you'll compare pears and apples and then boast about how successful you are because you work four times as hard. Don't, you're a young man. Don't go that way. So, be still a professional and do that job, I personally think you're doing it professionally well. You're talking about statistics, so you're talking about statistics where you're just getting involved. Where did 60 grand people come from at the Bureau last year, where did it come from? From the public sector? It's not. Well, it came from the private sector. If this private sector is 65 or 67% of total employees, then do not say that you have increased the number of employees in small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, it depends on who you're taking. So these people first started firing people employed and the first of course started closing because they're more inflexible, when they go to work, when they don't go fired and it's natural. And it's not your fault, of course. In my opinion, of course, you've done a lot of good things, but you've got the wrong approach. You're trying to compare yourself to something that's not comparable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40909	Time. I would suggest we don't go to the level of personal qualifications. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40910	So I thank you for the suggestion. Yeah, we put a guarantee on the first call, but that also doesn't mean you couldn't. Therefore, the previous administration could not also introduce a guarantee on the first call as an instrument to encourage entrepreneurship. Yeah, we want to take more risks, so I repeat it by not knowing which times. Yes, we want to put wind in the back of Croatian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I did not create statistics, statistics are visible from the official reports of the Croatian Bureau of Statistics, therefore it is not about some fictitious haired figures but are simply facts that are publicly published and absolutely available to everyone. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40911	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Ivo Jelusic. Here's my colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40912	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister of Honor, Mr. Hamag INVESTA. We're not discussing this report for the first time, but when I listen to this debate, it seems like we're not discussing the same report, as if it's not the same figures, because I see that we have a diametrically opposite base and attitude. I can kind of accept that, but I can't accept that the facts are interpreted differently. The facts are facts, the numbers are numbers, they're exact and... they don't give away. Thus, when said and said loudly and clearly, it is an irrefutable fact that in small and medium-sized enterprises, and HAMAG cares about the Croatian economy sector that employment increased by 2.7% last year compared to 2011 is simply a fact. She doesn't get to bypass she can't look any different than that. Of course, this and all the other facts presented by my colleague Liovic on behalf of the agency and which I will also be presenting, etc. The HDZ colleagues don't fit. They would like them to be happy if we said that, last year HAMAG worked worse, worse than 2011.When they managed it but unfortunately we can't say it and we won't, not because we can't and we won't, but because the facts are different, and you don't respond to the facts, but it's your problem and I don't think we can solve it. I hope about one thing at least we agree on and it is that one such agency in this form is needed, we have had it for years already on one or another twenty years because it is necessary to encourage a small and medium entrepreneurship and it is founded for that. First, because it is necessary to help those who are starting or who are weak and others who need help, which is the most flexible part of the economy, and should therefore also be stimulated by the state in order to produce results. Of course, in 2012 a number of changes were made both in the work of the agency and in the results. The amended law but not only is it not the change in the law which has changed the name that has now been given which is not only for HAMAG but also the addition of INVEST therefore for investments but also for what has happened and a series of changes. It is therefore put into part-time work of this agency and to encourage investment and seek investors for the Croatian economy but in the segment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. So these remarks or lunches as if we don't know where investment is in this government. We know very well about small and medium enterprises. Here at this agency in the ministry responsible for this, and for the large investments of the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, it is clear and loudly separated only by some wanting to misread or misrepresent it. So a series of new and powers except for investments, above all, have been found to be able to obtain all the information that is related to this segment and all these problems involving the Agency's work. The guarantee capital has been increased by a billion kuna, from 1 billion to 2 billion in double. Now someone is going to say so you know it burdens the budget balance or not, but if we want to secure the guarantee capital and we want to give guarantees and say it's a good thing and then when we increase it, then it turns out to you that it's not good too. What should we reduce to make it good for you from HDZ? I don't really know what we're supposed to do to make you happy unless you're in charge. A number of new forms of assistance have been introduced, such as a letter of intent for novices, but what is most important is that a system of field control is in place. It didn't take too much mind to do that, so it was always known that it was possible to do it just didn't want to be done before, because when you control it, then maybe you'll see that someone's the support they got that didn't spend well, and maybe you gave it to your own, so it doesn't fit you to see it, and that's not good. In the end, when it comes to state aids or else, even this one here when it comes to HAMAG, my position was always to end the business in the act when you give support rather than when you see the effects of that support. And if a job like this until 2012 HAMAG worked out that when you give support and finish the job, the agency doesn't worry about it anymore, then of course it doesn't ask for results, then you don't ask where it went and how it went. It is precisely the purpose of not giving support but to be supported by certain results in the economy and then to check how it is spent, of course, that you have to start a team and people and you intend to check how it is spent and what happens to it. But when it comes to guarantees, I must, even though there was an objection here why it compares in 2012 and 2011. And what does it compare to? The only thing in itself is when you take it out if you don't compare it with other data, other years, to others at all if you don't compare yourself to what's it worth? What made them see that we were better at past elections than you were at getting more votes? So you have to compare it to someone here and here. You compare yourself, and you see the figures are inexorable. That the approved projects in 2012 compared to 2011 were almost twice as many as 243 to 112, that the guarantees were given 315 million and 154 twice as much in the previous year. And these are simply facts that are not allowed to be killed. That the result of these guarantees occurred in 2012 of 924 million in 2011. 494 almost twice as many. So these are inexorable figures whether someone likes them or not, but they are. That the result of these investments is the employment of 829 people and in the end it is also certain that it has contributed to this particular segment when we have a very bad employment situation when we have a large number of unemployed that this segment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship has seen a rise in employment probably partly because of this, that there has been an increase in exports from this sector by 11%. These are simply facts and if that were the case in all segments of the Croatian economy and the total figures would, of course, be much better. To say that otherwise the situation isn't good in the economy, so we see it and it hasn't since yesterday. It's true that we have, that we had a fall last year economically. It's just a known fact. But the fact is there's been a fall in previous years, and when we compare ourselves again, and we have to compare to the year 2008 when we had the last time, so since our economic downturn started. Since this economic downturn, since the decline of the gross social product that we have had in the last 5 years 90% and negative rates or this decline of waste to the HDZ period and they are now surprised that the situation is like this. I really don't understand it. It's like they weren't here, let alone weren't involved, and they ran it. What is also important and this is that the support mainly went, was aimed at the manufacturing sector, at the manufacturing and processing activities which is good because we all say that in Croatia we need to produce, that we need to produce more because we need to create new values. And that's good. And in that sense, it's a good policy to focus the funds on it. And I'd say, it doesn't matter how many entities you're going to include, you want to divide it into a thousand or two of your friends or acquaintances than you're going to give to those who're going to produce effects, which is to be more investment, more employment, more production and more export. And that's what happened. Finally, anyone who observes this report neutrally, regardless of what options they come from, accepts these facts and sees that there have indeed been significant improvements in 2012, that therefore there has been an increase in the guarantee capital, that the result is greater, more employees in this segment, greater production, greater exports, and these are simply facts. I'd like to get around these things if we had a consensus to admit that the facts are like that and we're looking forward to that data, not because... We're looking at it because we're in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because when things are good and the good things have happened and we're not in power, let's go attack it because it wasn't when we were. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wish it had happened when you were in power and when HDZ was with his... It would be easier for us today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately not, it is now, so if you don't have to compliment it, don't deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40913	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first is Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40914	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelusic, I will talk about this statistic again because you in your debate on it in the most part and looked back and you said that in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, employment grew and that in part, HAMAG had its share. HAMAG clearly states that in 2012 he provided so many guarantees and that 800 new jobs were opened. I'll remind you of, say, 12 months last year... 11 when the 800 jobs disappeared in one day and ended up at the Croatian Employment Service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So one day of your government's bad decisions caused by various other acts, not Hamag's work, would practically cancel out the whole year's success of HAMAG INVEST, that's the logic of things. And now to talk about it as some kind of rescue solution that would stimulate this medium, little entrepreneurship and question it with some kind of political option or dissatisfaction in the past time which was as bad, this HAMAG was bad but this new one was perfect. Here says the board president himself in his statement by the Voice of Slavonia that he was his own purpose and that this one has a purpose. Those are great philosophical thoughts. Really. Just like you're talking about election results. Well, then your vice president says you can't lose where you didn't even have power. And he can win where he's got it. Imagine that level of philosophy. That's your policy, too. And that's why we rightly said that this looks like a copy of a PR agency tasked with some small shifts, really small shifts to turn into big and rescue moves for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And the number of unemployed is 328 grand today. And in the season when it's eight months we'll be 20 grand stronger than last year at the end of eight months when we were at 300 grand. That's the problem. But HAMAG doesn't solve them. and not all of your guaranteed or those numbers you keep talking about. [[Intruder: It's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40915	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40916	I'll say it again, the facts are facts because they don't deny themselves. Therefore, if there has been an improvement in this segment and an increase in the number of employees you are talking about, then that is a fact. However you do it in this segment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is an increase in employees of 2.7%. That's a fact. She's partly repeating the consequences and this work of HAMAG INVEST in the past year. And it's just something you don't want to accept. You don't have to accept it but at least I can say it and I want it and you can hear it. The fact that the number of unemployed in Croatia is large is true, however, you are still surprised as if you forget that until a year and a half ago you were in power and left that state. This government has finally embarked on structural reforms that are painful in some segments and that produce for the first hand some negative effects, and that there will be an increase in the number of unemployed. It's like the code in medicine. When the disease progresses that surgery should be done after surgery, the patient’s first few days are very bad for him to get better afterwards. It will only be better if we continue our work and our reforms. And of course in our environment, the environment surrounding Croatia is also getting better. If Germany doesn't grow this year, I think it's pretentious to expect from our little Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40917	Thank you. Next replica, Đuro Popiè. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40918	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So you're talking about facts about facts. The indisputable fact is that 70,000 people ended up on the real sector stock market last year. 92 thousand medium and small enterprises, about 250 large companies. So tell me, where did these people come from on the market? Medium and small entrepreneurship is always the most vulnerable in all crises, but also the most flexible. And I repeat to you if you don't know that, they're the fastest employees, they're the easiest to get rid of and close and open, which is why they're tough, which is why there are 70,000 people on the market today. Whatever statistics you want to manipulate and use the numbers that fit you, it is an irrefutable fact and it is irrefutable that in 2011 there were so many fewer unemployed. It's irrefutable, however you try to manipulate and present it now. When you talk about 2009 or 2008 or I don't know which years it falls, you're talking about five years of growth too. So once there was growth, there was a fall and in 2011 it was stopped and even in two quarters it had a positive sign. And as far as the criteria are concerned, what's better, 200 or 2000 support, so you're probably right, 200 support is much easier to control or control under quotes of course than 2000. It's much simpler to have control and control over 200 points than at 2000. That's the effect, we see it, we see it by the results and by the general economic movements, and that's the facts. And you can, of course, have the right to interpret them, to turn them around and create them and present them in the way that suits you, but unfortunately it does nothing to the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40919	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40920	You're saying that it's easier to control 200 than 1,000, right, but we're going to control everything for those who were given, and you didn't want any, and that's the difference, which is that we have honest intentions and intentions to control the support and see what the effects are, and you didn't have any intentions, let alone control everything. Of course you didn't have any intentions or interest in what was happening with the support because when you give someone to your own because you're your own, then you don't care what the effects are, and when you give someone you expect the effects, from whom you expect increased production and the number of employees, then of course you intend to control it and see if it happens to you. That's how we do it. As for growth, it is true that the whole of Europe and the world entered the recession, so we also had an economic downturn during your rule, but it is true that this Europe and the world also, at the end of two years, began to recover, with us this recovery was not as it was in the world because we were far behind in our environment. Today, this government has the task of getting Croatia out of the crisis and having increased economic growth rates when no one else has it, when on average the European Union does not have it, when countries in our environment Italy, Slovenia, Hungary, which are members of the European Union will have an economic downturn of between 1.5% and 2%. We are expected to do so, so we are expected when no one is going to go to us, and you, when you were in power, were not expected from all of you, and who should have expected you to do something good. We didn't expect much, neither did the citizens expect much, but that's why they now have much higher expectations and that's our problem, but we'll also know how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40921	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40922	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. President of the HAMAG Invest Administration. I'm going to say a few words on behalf of the SDSS club, so not too much, but a few references to this report we're looking at today. So for us this report in professional statistical terms was properly done, it covered and presented to us a series of important data on the work of HAMAG in the last two years. We think in principle that HAMAG Invest as an institution is needed today as support, support for small and medium enterprises. We think that it is ultimately built as a serious institution which is serious to small entrepreneurship that gives this amount of guarantees which are approved to be very high quality guarantees that both colleagues on both sides of the assembly have recognised. And I'm particularly happy that there are certain ambitions to be credited, to go into microcredit. Ambitions are high, however, we must say that the realization of all these plans, i.e. the final assessment of the work of HAMAG Investa, is not only up to them, but depends on the total of one environment, i.e. on the functioning of the complete system. The guarantee which is the core activity, i.e. to say the basic tasks of HAMAG Investa, is also the most important element in lending and is mainly the most important debate on this report. For us, the new products that HAMAG has presented here as a guarantee programme, liquidity and growth are fully acceptable, etc. We think that the liquidity programme, or liquidity project, is particularly important today when liquidity is the most important thing in the economy. Here we have one suggestion that this programme should perhaps be a little more accessible in some of its elements of the small economy, but we're not going to analyze it right now. I think the people in HAMAG are going to be able to correct that, which means correct the very conditions of the liquidity project. We think that the guaranteed letter of intent as some kind of preliminary processing of the business plan at the Agency is a very good thing because we have cases that people have entered certain investments, so they have exposed themselves to considerable material costs while preparing certain papers to finally tell them that it is the first phase, and that is the assessment of the value of the study is not at an expected level and that money is irrevocably gone. So this is a very good thing, so the guaranteed letter of intent is a very good thing that Hamag introduced. I think it's a very correct opportunity, 22 banks have been given the opportunity to contract participation in this project and that's very good. How the banks will behave in all this will we see later. That's exactly what I'm thinking and talking about in the analysis of this report, because I think I'm the work of HAMAG INVEST as an institution most determined by bank behaviour. We see here in the report that in 2012 359 applications were submitted and as already said, 243 guarantees were approved. It was issued somewhere worth 315 million kuna, which was then said here which is very commendable to me that this resulted in a total investment of 924 million kuna. However, it would be good to say that we did not get indicators of this 924 million kuna investment we do not know how many new jobs were produced. So that would be if we had about one such information then that whole report would be somehow more complete and convincing. Why did I say banks are the key thing? I think it's important here to say, you should say how much interest there is in banks. When I talk about banks, I'm not talking about HBOR, but I'm talking about commercial banks how much interest it is in monitoring all these initiatives that go by both the HBOR and the state, or with the HAMG guarantee because we see here in your report you've already said while most of the requirements for guarantee in 2011 have been concentrated in only 2 banks. These are the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Zagreb Bank was less interested in this chart of all other banks. Why is it such a minor interest? I mean, I don't know if everybody's gonna agree to that, but from some experience and looking at the situation through the facts, I think that banks in all of that, have kept their own terms and credits that are often much sharper than the conditions expected in this kind of one funding project. We think that business banks often do not know the elements for monitoring this funding project. We think that for, and we have some information that ultimately for business banks, or commercial banks, these kind of credit arrangements with 4% interest with a subsidized interest are not attractive. So, they don't see their profits coming, and they have at the same time as they say it themselves, they may even be at increased risk of collecting such loans, and that's why we have a situation that business banks aren't interested in tracking these credit lines that we're talking about here, which is of course not good. It is not good for banks with their behaviour to determine many factors, including work and the efficiency of the work of the HAMAG itself. We see, I'm going to do something here, see that you said here, you gave a report and guarantees per programme, and you said that in the total amount of approved guarantees, it's obvious that 37% of the farmers' programme is preceding the guarantee programme of growth with 30%. Here you should also say something from experience even though it is not directly related to HAMAG or a guarantee programme for farmers, so HAMAG correctly follows the guarantee of the programme of farmers. However, when it comes to this segment, we must say that the OPGs that have over 100,000 registered cannot participate equally with all other economic operators in the consumption of these credit programmes. Why do I say that? They are, they cannot realise their projects through HBOR directly but are directed to commercial banks. And when they reach commercial banks, they fall under a very rigorous regime of the criteria of these commercial banks and then commercial banks say that such OPGs, medium, small OPGs for which the project of lending with subsidised interest means almost survival. So they're not interesting. This will be the data when I say, so if you have here shown payments by guarantees you see that out of 17 million kuna 15 million kuna has been paid by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and only a few other commercial banks. Commercial banks which, of course, is a problem other than your guarantee, except for HAMAG guarantees require about 30% of their own funds, their own participation and that and cash. Therefore, this only adds to the fact that commercial banks have such projects, i.e. such lending programmes are not attractive and HAMAG is likely to have a good intention, has a good strategy and correctly monitors these projects by issuing its guarantee. However, the matter is falling, the matter is questionable when business banks are reached. And in that thing and in those relationships, in those relations, I think we have to do something. And in the end you were talking about your investment activities abroad, you were talking about how you have certain what's of course good about how you have certain contacts with departments, economic departments of Italy, Great Britain, provinces in Germany, etc. We think that's good. Here they would suggest that these activities should turn to one another, to one market that is now in expansion, which is, that is, economies that are in expansion and economies that have certain quality resources and intentions to invest in this space. I mean, first of all, the Russian market, I mean, possibly even the Chinese market. And I think that these are some kind of partners, or resources that we haven't explored enough, we haven't paid enough attention. When it comes to the fact of foreign investment assumptions, we think that foreign investors have relatively enough their own money, even in some segments and cheaper money than we can offer them here on our financial market, but we must do much more to create a single overall investment climate in society. So, I'll just pull one parallel out of our neighborhood no matter how much someone likes it or not, but the fact is that the Republic of Serbia with certain steps has created a much more attractive investment climate than we have today. Here's just an example of the Red Flag, or Kragujevac, that's a lot of talk about, they went with the principle that they gave the investor the country free of charge, that they gave up all parafiscal duties and dejavations in favour of local self-government. They further stimulate the employment of workers, so 10 thousand euros per newly opened job is paid by the government of the Republic of Serbia to the investor. And that's why we have this investment trip to the Republic of Serbia. So these are the things that we as a society have to do. When we do, the Hamag activity will probably have its full meaning. Finally, we support or accept the Croatian Agency Report for Small Economy as presented.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40923	Thank you. We have one replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40924	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague of the debate on the impact of banks on the growth of the economy has been and has been and will be very active on the nature of lending, the availability of credit to the economy, but you are several times consecutive, so I have reported for replication, expressed criticism and braking of the banking sector in relation to the economy, compared to HAMAG, rigorous measures implemented by banks related to the economy and lending. I just want to remind you that the Croatian financial system is one of the most stable in Europe not to say in the world, that the CNB is doing its job well and doing well and that the money, the funds that banks place in the Croatian economy and others, but generally the Croatian economy are the funds of the Croatian citizens and that security is paid to the security of the banking system and the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that both the CNB and the state take care of their funds used to further develop the economy. So very simple labelling and the banking system is not what is most correct, what is necessary, of course, to find the best balance, scales and insurance of potential risks, but the good part of it now also exists. Turning all these trends, HAMAG is extremely helpful, but it is also clear that in the first three months, credits to entrepreneurs by banks have grown, and with rigorous measures, it is evident that the economy is turning trends that, of course, cannot be reversed overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40925	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40926	Thank you. Dear colleague I fully agree with you in assessing the stability of the banking system of the Republic of Croatia. That's not what I was talking about. I've been telling you about certain obstacles that occur in real life. So, you go to a bank with a certain investment, you have a certain guarantee, or agreement, that the investment will be financed by HBOR's money, so state money, you have a certain preliminary agreement that this funding possibility can be further strengthened by the HAMG guarantee and you go to a business bank and the business bank says that all together we are looking for another 30% of our own funds except as additional collateral and cash if possible. Therefore, you now put this in line with a million kuna investment where HAMAG INVEST will give a correct guarantee, a correct guarantee for a specific project that is estimated to be okay, and then the business bank says not only that but because of our special rules lately, so lately new rules require additional security in their own resources. That's what I'm talking about, I'm not talking about how it's not an efficient system of HAMAG or HBOR I'm talking about how this thing in a lot of life is determined by business banks that we don't have influence on. In addition, in certain situations it is very clear that certain projects that go beyond 4% subsidies, even 2% but are subsidized, are not attractive to business banks because these projects significantly reduce their profits and remain the same risk because these projects are over 10 years of long-term payments. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40927	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40928	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister of Administration, colleagues and colleagues. So, quite initially, it was discussed about the report and the role of HAMAG, even sometimes discussions from the HDZ club seemed to me as if HAMAG was unnecessary in this situation at all economically besides those discussions that suddenly Hamag had not existed before, and so on, that it was the intention and the exhibitor and us in the coalition government. Of course Hamag is both necessary and essential that Hamag did not distort the facts with this report but clearly pointed out that they had worked much harder than had been done so far. And that's in the interest of the economy. And that using HAMAG as a guarantee agency, this government increased the amount from 154 to 924 million kuna of new investments. These are key and basic messages that are clearly read from what has been realized, along with all those elements, instruments that they further use to support entrepreneurship and in broad spectrum. The debate on the banking sector and the hamag guarantee can, of course, be opened in various ways, but it is quite clear that HBOR knows that from 6 billion raises itself to 10 credits of entrepreneurship, gives the first time after 6 years of this amount 53% means the majority went towards investments and the smaller part went towards crafts assets in that segment that Hamag is working with HBOR but also business banks it is obvious that this government wants to be a partner of the economy not declared, not populist, not only through support and we know that the support through HAMAG was of 5, 10, 15, 30 thousand kunas, which essentially do not know who these support can truly serve in the real business or the real business has turned to concrete projects in a concrete way and projects that are being controlled, and so far have not been controlled which would achieve the effectiveness and effectiveness of being the key to realisation. I have to make it clear, on behalf of the HNS Club, that in terms of the impact of HAMAG on investment or employment, of course no investment at the time when the HAMAG loan is granted cannot be realised through overnight employment. It takes a few months to a year, given the type of investment, and when it comes to an increase in unemployment, so that is the impact of the ineffectiveness of HAMAG and of this Government, then I will remind you of one fact which is constantly avoided, which is that, in September of the month before the adoption of the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement, all documents have been submitted which clearly state that 38 thousand entities legally had 41 thousand workers who had not only paid salaries but had been blocked for more than a year. So these 41 thousand workers were certainly not employed, and after the order was introduced to the Croatian state in such a way that the one who does not pay the salaries, the one who does not pay his suppliers, cannot compete on the market, and what was allowed in previous years. And also 30 thousand 4 thousand craftsmen have been blocked for years and more days with 25 thousand workers. Therefore, when we only add these two figures, it is 66,000 citizens and citizens of workers who have not been able to receive salaries but this country has reduced it in a way that says you are not in statistical employment but you are actually unemployed and you still have to apply to the Croatian Employment Office. So these are the key figures and that's the key blow that was statistically but realistically human people who didn't receive fees in their companies that Hamag certainly didn't do them any good. HAMAG is and HAMAG this year helps the economy like this Government through HBOR and these are two key agencies, i.e. a development bank that provides with all the conditions and laws that we have passed and I believe we will bring to the Croatian Parliament for creating conditions for improving the investment climate including the Investment Support Act and colleagues spoke and compared us with Serbia a little while ago. So we, in accordance with European rules, have passed the laws that we provide and support with the best standards and experiences of the EU, and we know that there are also Slovaks, Poles, Czechs and Hungarians who have had the most experience in foreign investment, to ensure them. We have to admit that we are not exactly a country that should be compared in terms of the investment climate, regardless of good certain investments in neighbouring Eastern countries, because our standard and approach is much higher in terms of how we will ensure competitiveness, and on the other hand market ensure that any support or allocations do not endanger other investors or our producers. So, in conclusion, on behalf of the HNS Club, we support this report and we just want this efficiency and efficiency in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises to be more significant and clear messages from these numbers and the fact that the Croatian state wants the maximum Croatian government and this coalition to support entrepreneurship and to be its partner to any entrepreneur or new investment or entrepreneur who are clearly in problems today is a guarantee, the problem is certain property. We discussed the previous law on the Law on crafts how vital property is. Otherwise, when discussing any business obligations and problems that can arise after what they are mortgaged on here, it is about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs whose HAMAG is quite large amounts, and we said 900 million investments allow them to support it to give them a hand that the state gives them the possibility that if they do not have them, and there is no good part of them because they would not report to HAMAG for investment and employment and, of course, competitiveness on the European market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40929	Thank you, too. We have a replica signed up for your exposure. Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40930	Thank you. So I did when I had a colleague competed with the eastern neighbours as you say it was for good purposes to suggest that a more favourable investment climate could be created to attract people who have money to invest in our space. I left out here just to say one fact which was obviously a very important factor to make some investments. The administration has done its job in terms of obtaining all permits and consent within 7 days. It's a very important thing. So, I'm just here to say that we have to work to adapt to some trends, some capital needs and investors from abroad. So we can't continue to be trim, we can't sort things out for 6, 7 months or even a few years. We can't bureaucratize the process and the system and then expect foreign investors to come and trust us. So what I'm saying is, the company was meant to say that even someone who's by some standards behind us can do things more practically.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40931	Thank you. We have an answer, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40932	Dear fellow, of course, that competitiveness and there we absolutely agree and simplify the complete process for obtaining permits, especially building, investment, foreign partners, is the key in the work and progress of the Croatian state. I, of course, made my point about the comparison because I do not want the Croatian State now entering the European Union to compare with certain processes that are truly lower standards, especially in the protection of national interests and competitiveness. The government of the Republic of Croatia wants investors but also wants to protect national wealth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40933	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40934	... Vice President of the Parliament, MPs, MPs, here a few days ago we had a debate here about the HBOR. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And approximately also the report is of course a report, the annual report of the HBOR was also, the assessments were very positive in the report itself, the results were excellent work by the HBOR. It's a similar situation now and here with HAMAG INVEST. The results are excellent, the incentives are growing, more and more entrepreneurs are involved. And the same thing we figured out when HBOR was whether, because HBOR is doing great and the economy is sinking about similar diagnosis could be reflected on the results of HAMAG, HAMAG is doing and it's as good as it was and the overall economic results are getting worse. So, uh... Around the doctor is doing great and the patient is dying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I think if the cure is bad or the one that does it or the patient is guilty of not being able to survive, under the patient I would think of the Croatian economy it's now a question. The predecessors also mentioned the problem of business banks, so yes, there is, banks can't... They are certainly the key point of the problem of the Croatian economy... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] business banks in total in the Croatian economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here in this report, from this report, which is usually as a report just as far as I'm concerned, and God wouldn't know how to evaluate it, not as far as the content itself is concerned, and even the way it's done, it's pretty impervious, it's pretty lame. And he's not even trying to be ambitious, so throw it this way on the table showing results by county where the numbers are 1, 2, 2, 4, 5, 2, 3 I don't think it's clear at all what most of these tables suggest. The one who wrote the report was neither close enough to be ambitious enough to try from what he had shown to make any conclusion. It doesn't have that ambition either, which means showing by county and where the numbers are moving 6, 1, 2, 3, 5, 4, 7, 8 and what we need to conclude from that. We need to conclude that, for example, when it comes to support in grant support programmes where the amount is indeed symbolic and moves 32.5 million kunas at an annual level where actually support by programmes moves in small two-digit numbers and where applications are measured in thousands. The number of applications, so for the beginner's program, I don't know about 1300 and 32 applications are approved. So within these means. We see that the largest amount actually refers to guarantees, guarantees that actually well cover liquidity only. And then on page 9 comes a fantastic yet bodan, bodan thesis that says that by realising investment of 924 million kunas in a small economy, 829 people are initiated and employed. Nor is it clear where those 900 million kunas are from or where those 829 people were actually employed. Well, or if we were to statisticalally convert what they would say is that we have a million-and-a-100, 200 thousand kuna per person employment program. Or what is the conclusion of this bordane thesis? What does she want to say? That cheap, we invest a little bit, we invest a lot, we don't invest a lot, is it success, is it failure, is it a billion kuna for some 829 jobs, or failure? Either it wasn't invested at all, or it was induced? Or did these tens of millions induce some hundreds that aren't even visible in what way they've been induced and what's even the thesis? I don't understand exactly what the poet was actually going to say in that report. One thing you might actually be able to brag about, that's field checks. Here are the agency's staff who managed to carry out 31 project checks in 2012 which is actually good to do at all. 31 project checks aren't much, but there they are. And of these three, it is said, therefore, three users have identified irregularities and have been ordered to repay some amount. But mostly, what is visible is that in fact a good part of these support is actually going towards closing guarantees and covering actually indivisibility in one way or another, and that in fact those direct support, especially grants, especially support for small entrepreneurship actually makes one very small share in the work of HAMAG and, of course, with that final line so that the results practically do not exist in the economy. So as a club, we'll see about this report, but it's our opinion that whoever's doing this report next year should actually work harder, come with clearer messages, come with better tables, have any idea what he's trying to tell us. Not only to list the numbers 1,2.5.7, but to bring in finally some plan, brought in what he actually does, does he have any idea what his job is, does he have a projection of what he's planning for next year, or does he come in here just to show us where he broke up, in which county he gave one guarantee, in which he gave two, in which he gave three and all together on some kind of tables, and so we'll say, with most of it, that, not so much. Our club will probably stay restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40935	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40936	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Djurovic, you've noticed that well. We point to it as a club here almost an hour and a half ago that this is all something loaded, and nothing out of this is visible except for one great optimism and concrete effect of just given support or these subsidies. So we know that what they gave will already open I don't know how many we heard today 800 and some jobs etc., etc. This is then compared with the growth of employment in small and medium-sized enterprises. When you look at the HAMAG page, it looks much better than this report. The website looks so much better, it says there if you have an idea to report for support and people have answered. They have an idea, they reported for support, last year 1912, got 159 for one program. So it's kind of a scam. You're hoping, will you, when you hear from you then invent 700 reasons why you can't get support or your program or your idea or project isn't big enough that you can take a large amount of 300 or 400,000 kunas that the law gives, and you're looking for 30. Then they don't give you that because we've decided to give you 400, you understand how it's suggested to us and here in the assembly. On the website you have a list of all who have received, say, guarantees for 2013. Why don't we have a list of everyone who got bail here? Well, if it can be on the website, why can't it be in the report? Not only that, who got the support, who got the subsidies so we know what we're talking about. This is how you have 1 in Požega-Slavon County, 3 here, 4 there and we are successful. That's the picture that's being sent out. HAMAG was unsuccessful by 2011 with incomparably more money, and we with much less money are incomparably more successful, and the number of unemployed is growing. It's a basic message.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40937	Thank you. We have an answer, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40938	Yes, optimism without coverage is certainly one of the most important elements of this government so far, especially when it comes to economic policy because indeed optimism always appears in all documents, but the coverage for this optimism does not follow in any of the results of the economic policy that the government has shown so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40939	Thank you. And the next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40940	Dear colleague Djurovic, I agree with you, you said, the other day we discussed HBOR, today we are discussing HAMAG. Both HBOR and HAMAG do a great job, achieve excellent results. One observation that stands, which is that most of the funds are given to close guarantees, means to help those who are trying to survive. However, production seems to have been so destroyed that it seems difficult to fix anything. For decades, it's been working to destroy domestic production. It was necessary before all these documents we are discussing, including this document that we will discuss later today, this is a proposal for a management strategy and for the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, absolutely certain that it was necessary to discuss first the strategy, the economic strategy of the Republic of Croatia, only then do we discuss the Law on crafts and all other laws. The patient is probably on exhale, HBOR and HAMAG still give him artificial breathing, but the patient on the apparatus has more chances of exhaling than someone breathing his life, especially with this kind of behavior of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40941	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40942	Yes, if you remember the parallel with the amendments to the HAMAG Act when HAMAG became HAMAG Invest something else changed, there was another proposal from one new agency, this SDP agency, that other HNS agency, I forgot what it was called, but I don't think that agency has to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament but only to the Croatian government, but only to the Ministry of Economy, otherwise it would have given them the same, similar, and then there was a general question why this additional agency was founded because they have more or less similar objectives. Only this HAMAG was so much more tattooed, it entered into the structure of chambers of economics, county and so, while the HNS's was the typical set up nicely, without problems and immediately, they did not even have problems with the Croatian Assembly because it did not submit a report at all. At least these people from HAMAG Invest have to come to the Croatian Parliament once a year to write something like this, to stay here for a while, so we'll discuss it a little while while here this Agency doesn't know what's called a small economy, investments and competitiveness it's called, that there's no business at all with the Croatian Parliament and they're calm. So here's at least as much as I'm concerned with the support here's the people from that agency that at least come once a year so we can move them a little bit, maybe if we're just doing a little bit more quality work and a little more work on reporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40943	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Nancy Tyreli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40944	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Deputy Vice President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. The 2011 HAMAG report we listened to in this House somewhere in early February, and it was almost no different from this report that we are listening to today because the president himself defended the work of HAMAG in 2011 talked more about the results achieved in 2012 than in 2011. However, what I want to point out is this. When we listened to the February report, there was also a very good and constructive debate. And we asked as parliamentary representatives, and in order to make the reports better, more transparent, more consistent, more understandable, ultimately more useful to anyone who reads them to us here in the Parliament, but of course to entrepreneurs and all those who use HAMAG funds to make some changes from the 2011 report to the 2012 report. However, here we have remained on this one dry report where not to repeat everything that my colleagues have said before me, we do not, unfortunately, read much. We then asked for reports to be more analytically constructive in the part where we will see which funds were allocated, i.e. which projects went through in HAMAGA's competitions and for several reasons. If such a project or analysis of such projects is put into the Annual Report, it will first help entrepreneurs who intend to apply to such projects and similar projects to see from the projects that have come into play on the subject of these projects, planned investments, planned new jobs, which these projects have passed on, and in fact what HAMAG invests most as such. It was the last time and words about how the funds were spent and how we were on a very good track when we proposed the introduction of the register of allocated support, but the support granted at the state level as well as local administrations and self-government for a simple reason, which in a good, transparent way could be seen which business entities operate on the Croatian market and thanks to the support and grants. There were talks in February and on certified consultants. The minister then promised to publish on the Ministry's pages a score of consultants so that users of these consulting services would know with certainty who they could address in the hope that the project would really be done the way it should be done, not that the project would be just a copy of the paste we agreed that unfortunately most of the projects were just coming out of consulting companies. But here's what we didn't do. The HAMAG INVEST database contains 94 certified consultants, consult entrepreneurs through entrepreneurship centres and development agencies, have been able to obtain certificates thanks to public funds. Then why is it so difficult in such reports to list the names and last names of these several consultants that have been paid precisely by HAMAG’s means over the days of vouchers. Unfortunately, it is still true that a large number of such and these consultants are doing projects only for development agencies, but not for entrepreneurs, regardless of how much money the regional administration has spent on training them. Why is it necessary and why it is so potent that the funds allocated through HAMAG are transparent. If we had all this analysis of the entities to which the funds were allocated, then we could read and monitor in the year-to-year reports how much these were allocated by the funds that we are praising and which in 2012 compare with the number of funds allocated, in the number of projects that have arrived or allocated, how much all these praises have contributed to this and how many new values we have created. In fact, as a result of such support, new workers have been employed and the productivity and balance of these business entities that have received support as such have increased. Unfortunately, in these reports we don't read, we only see numbers, we see counties that are certainly not good and the report as such has no purpose. Because if we say all the time that we want to be transparent, that we want to know what we're doing, that we want to follow those who get incentives, and we're also boasting that in 2012, we're the first agency to perform and monitor on the ground, so here we are in the state budget of 3 assigned projects 177,000 kuna which is certainly commendable. However, it is not enough that data on how many new jobs have been opened because of the support or guarantees granted or how improved the balance of a particular business entity that has received such support, you only know in HAMAG because then such a report does not make sense if parliamentary representatives do not know about the report itself and are discussing it. We heard today from fellow Jelusic here in his debate we will control. So the question is, who are we? If the MPs must give or raise their hands for, against or be abstention against the Hamag Annual Report, then it is certainly necessary that the information that I have spoken of is known by all MPs, not just us or not by you at HAMAG. It was said here today that a particular cycle should also be passed to know how many new jobs were actually opened thanks to the support, and I agree with it that a certain amount of time should be required, but without further ado, I stress that just because we have allocated it seems to me somewhere around 243 guarantees, which is certainly not a large number, that this report should certainly be made more extensive and that the projection of some new value, the new additional values in those companies that are granted guarantees. And then I think a report like that would make sense. This way, with only dry numbers that we cannot possibly analyze except in that part of the analysis between 2011 and 2012 we will be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40945	Thank you, too. We have a single replica reported, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40946	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Tyrelli, you mentioned the need for these reports to be the data of those to whom help was provided. Not only here at HAMAG, but also HBOR and this transparency with complete data has double meaning. I want to believe that counterpart Radenovic will allow HAMAG representatives to listen, and these party matters will be dealt with in the break. After the creation of 30 funds, agencies, institutions, investment centres... One is the Investment Attraction Centre and the other is the Investment Monitoring Agency around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm interested in when both HAMAG and HBOR and the State Agency and the Fund hire services consultants and entrepreneurs who compete with their programmes have to hire consultants because it's so complicated that a normal man can't write anything. How much of the total resources the state gives, in this way to encourage production, actually ends up with consultants? And secondly, it's a new point of possible corruption because maybe they could link up to the most frequent projects and programs just two, three consultants or two, three consulting companies or houses. Or that in some sector, only some part of them make good suggestions and programs, just those consulting agencies or consultants passing through. Because without the publication of the list not only of projects and users but also of consultants used by the state as the entrepreneurs themselves, and this topic I will ask for to be the subject of the Anti-corruption National Council and then you will have to provide information, you will have to give information, we will be able to discuss whether a new point of potential corruption risk has been opened. So, in the future, include it in your reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40947	Thank you. My colleague Lesar, you've replicated a colleague named Nancy Tyrelli who spoke on behalf of the club. Here's an answer to my colleague Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40948	Thank you. Yes, and I'm personally glad to see what my colleague Lesar's replicated because obviously I wasn't clear enough when I was talking about consultants and when I really asked and I repeat again in the second month when we had the 2011 report we specifically asked here to make some kind of analyst in the 2012 report, so read the phonogram and you'll see, here I would really ask, how important it is. So, these very consultants, which makes it difficult for these people to name a few because not all 94 are involved and involved in the development of these business plans and projects that are passing on at HAMAG, how hard are they listed in a report like this? The more these funds are funded. So that would be the transparency we've been talking about all along. It is not enough to boast about how many guarantees we have made this year compared to last year but rather important and important to see in this transparency to whom we have provided guarantees, which we have given them and that these names of business entities and all those who are spinning in this story and HAMAG and all other agencies and funds can be read publicly in the end if nothing else goes well with certain agencies and funds but who is quality. And who of the consultants is high-quality means a lot to entrepreneurs who pay for these consultants themselves, and that's what the minister promised, and he didn't do on his ministry pages, that he'd put in a rating of all 94 consultants as much as the consultants are worth to know exactly who and what they're giving their money for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40949	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Gordana Sobol, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Board. So, just a few sentences. Today I spoke to you briefly about something that seems to me to be a certain lack and this report. I only took the 2011 report. It is true that on one page of this report you have a particularly isolated promotion of female entrepreneurship. I would like to remind us all together that somewhere since 2000 or since 2001, we have all worked more intensively to promote and involve women in the sphere of entrepreneurship, and that in the last 13 years, we have actually made a real breakthrough because somewhere with some and less than 10% share of women in entrepreneurship we came today and somewhere between 28 to 30% of women entrepreneurs in the total number of entrepreneurs. In accordance with this and the reports that came into this House, I would say that they were still in that statistical sense I would now limit to that every year I would say all the better actually. So when you take the 2011 HAMAG report now and compare this for 2012 I am sorry but I must say that there are certain shortcomings for 2012 because there are no statistics on women and the proportions of women entrepreneurs on the number of applications they have made with which programs they competed and in the part that comes from the county area. I only took the data we had in 2011 when it comes to women or when they're men. I remind you of this because it is among other things a statistical gender representation where it can be prescribed by the Law on Gender Equality as well as by laws that treat statistics or national statistics of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I would pray that I will not be long, although we have been talking about entrepreneurship and crafts for a long time already the second day I will leave a good part of my debate when we discuss the strategy for the development of entrepreneurship in Croatia but here, please warn me today you have told me that this will be further published on the pages. But I'm one of those guys who thinks that we and here on the constituency benches, so in the materials that we get, we need to get as much data as we can right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40951	Thank you, too. And for the debate, we continue with Goran Maric. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40952	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable President of the Board and the Deputy President of the Board. I admit I've never seen a report like this in the Parliament before. These are the new reporting standards, and these standards of new reporting underestimate MPs in the Parliament and underestimate this Parliament. If we carefully observe the full report, one level of professionality and responsibility remains. And this isn't just criticism for criticism, I'm going to back up everything I think, warn you it should be better. But let us not at first have the view that if someone does not accept the way an institution works or the way it reports that it is immediately against helping the economy. It's a dangerous thesis. Let's not play with such a thesis. As soon as the first criticism was made, the president of the administration stood up and said you do not want to help the economy. Don't argue like that in the Croatian Parliament. The report's pretty unserious. It doesn't contain the basic elements, but let's take the lead. Already on page one, a newspaper cut by the president of HAMAG's interview. We have never experienced this before that the institution that submits the report to the Croatian Parliament in its report gives a preview of part of the interview of the management president or director of a company or. It's some new reporting standard. On the first page of the opening part, we should be told what the president of the administration said in his interviews in the ballots. On page 3, copy of the publication of the HAMAG article. Imagine if the HBOR in its report, and we had it the other day at the hearing in the report, gave a picture of what others were saying about HBOR. On page 5, we have all the partners of the logo with which HAMAG concluded the cooperation agreement. So there is also HYPO bank and Partner bank and Zagrebačka banka, really a little unusual. Here I am trying to find the right words but that they are such that it should be confirmed to advertise them in order to confirm that the signed agreement with them has little effect on me for this level unacceptable. There's a photo on page 6 of even one lady who got bail. And underneath that we have a statement from her, the whole page is a photo and her statement that HAMAG gave her a guarantee. Next, an example of good practice and a picture of a gentleman, and under his statement again. This looks like a school paper to me. Then there's a county review of how support was given. And then we have on page 14 a real panegiric about HAMAG again framed as some entrepreneur thinks about this HAMAG. And what do those who didn't get the guarantee think? But most of all, I have to admit it's even untasteful, the minister's statement to report here because we never had that, never in any of the reports, to quote a statement from a minister who gave a radio station. It's an integral part, and it's the largest part of this report. And what about the review of all the guarantees granted, to which the guarantee was given, in what amount, the balance sheet of the guarantee, the market position, the number of employees, and how the guarantee was granted, how the balance was changed, how the number of employees had been, whether the situation on the market changed, what happened to those who directly received the grants, to whom it was given, the name, company name, company headquarters, company core capital, the number of employees and the situation after they got it, at the beginning and at the end. There's not a word to that, and that's the most important thing. Let us not forget that today's biggest economists have said that this financial crisis is not only a financial crisis but it is a balance sheet crisis and it is very questionable what the balance sheet situation is like before and after, and that is the most important thing. That's the most important thing, balance sheet. It's easy to say we hired so many more and so many people and investment is so much and so much. And what if it's because some people in other places are hired elsewhere to get fired in the same activity. There is no independent variable in the economy. There's no systematic analysis here. And we're not against supporting the economy, but to know the criteria and to know who it's given it to and who it is who doesn't repay the loans, who it is, and please don't politicize, I don't care what minister it is or didn't approve it, is this or that one, I'm interested in who this business entity for which the guarantee is paid. That's important. Because, once again, that same business subject will again be paid off by the guarantee. Not maybe you, when you're not the other one will come and they'll come again. Let's not look at static economic problems, let's look at them dynamically. The world didn't begin with the arrival of one or end with the departure of one. And the Croatian economy is in enormous difficulty. Every effort that seems to be making economic activity a bigger welcome, and I'm glad, but it's obvious, that's what the data suggests that these efforts weren't enough, they didn't bear fruit, those main verifiable indicators are still negative. Therefore, along with all the praises of HBOR, with all the praises of HAMAG, with all the praises of the CNB, the business banks, more employment, the increasing investment, the GDP declines, the unemployed increasingly, the balance of external trade exchanges is growing negative, the negative balance is increasing. 6.5 billion euros per year is a negative external trade balance. And now, of course, it is important to see if women are involved in entrepreneurship, but it is not what is most important in the report to see how women are also supported for entrepreneurship. But those most important data are lagging behind, lack of analysis and lack of analysis of the effects that are expected and achieved. This gap is always between potential and feasible and always less feasible than potential. Croatia has greater potential, has hamag potential and HBOR, have also business banks. But I'm not so happy that you've opened up to business banks and big companies, and this year you've opened guarantees to big companies, and that's why it's important how much income anyone has, how much profit they get, what position they have on the market. We may provide him with an even more monopolistic position if he has a monopoly position. Maybe we're making others unfair competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40953	Thank you. Branko Vuksic reported on the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40954	Dear counterpart Maric, you mentioned in your debate, now at the end of the debate both the CNB and the business banks, and it is common in this assembly to point out that, the governor himself pointed out that the task of the CNB is to maintain the stability of the kuna, the stability of foreign commercial banks, and that everything else is unstable in Croatia is less important. First of all, the economy is on the extremity, the citizens are becoming more unstable, the fewer those who can settle their basic costs, the more and more those who are below the edge of poverty, that's over 1/3 of the citizens. There are those who can no longer live with dignity as humans. And every time we discuss here in the Assembly, the same story happens, the praises of the CNB, the praises of all those, and also of HBOR and HAMAG, all those who hold the funds, who hold the money. When we discuss those who take money from them, those who should admire the business banks standing on their firm feet, the Croatian National Bank, who has confused the kuna and who preserves the stability of these commercial banks, all of them are evil. Well, then something's wrong. There's more and more poor citizens, and there's worse economics, and our banks are booming. We have the CNB that we have the most successful governor in the world, and we have the most unsuccessful economy in Europe. Well, that's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40955	We have an answer, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40956	Col. Vuksic's financial sector and the real sector in the economy function according to the law of the merged vessels. And there's no way to talk about separation and the healthy part and the unhealthy part. Well, it's just one impression and it's a false impression that one is stable and the other is in bad shape. If we just read bank and CNB reports, it is evident that 34 billion kunas placed in the economy are treated as non-refundable loans. This means it will also be directly reflected in the financial sector. However, individual success and what he answers are never related to what he answers but to the picture he creates about himself in the media. Well, the medium is one, an ordinary medium has declared that one man the best in the world without any relevant indicators. In addition to indicators that before that, one company had moved its ad to the same magazine several hundred thousand euros paid the ad and then the prize followed. And so for the first time when it was a reward for the Minister of Finance, and this is now, and it's exactly who he paid and who he paid for. But money is the main developmental lever and if money is not understood to be the main developmental lever as the CNB doesn't understand then we can't develop. But it is more important to the CNB and others to the reputation of the individual than to the fate of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40957	Next replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40958	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Maric, you've had this report well cut out, and we've really not had any of these in the House until now, just like this, structured by the departments, the recognitions of the new administration, the covert advertising of our partners. So I'm the beginning and sentence of 2012 of new beginnings and three dots and no dissatisfaction. After almost 3200 denied support requests, none of these refusals are unsatisfactory. But this one that's got he's quite pleased. Not to mention those who have received guarantees and those who have been denied guarantees. So, a completely distorted picture to the Croatian Parliament because we were supposed to buy this product as a regular commercial. Buy this good product, love the management president he's good, he's starting to move so far nothing's happened in HAMAG, well, and we had 2011 in the second month at the debate. Then the Deputy Minister I think defended this report and we made very specific demands – give us transparently what happened in 2012 when the next report comes. Here it comes after three, four months we don't know anything but dry numbers. For that we have to go to a website that's much better, but it's also sold as a product. Entrepreneurs unfortunately spend money, to report to the tender only a consulting company that is similar we heard here a word of 3000 kuna cost an elaborate if perhaps you could pass. If you write it yourself, you're not going through it, I'm sure. That's the problem. Let's find out who your next report is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40959	Thank you. Next replica, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals. And I'm sorry, my colleague Maric, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40960	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Boric's report is really this way not boredom, it can be fixed, he has what interesting information is just structured into one, so I could say more about youthful playfulness than professional standards. But a little upgrade of professionalism and elaborate this data can certainly be and must be certainly more quality. Because I can't give a serious reference to a report like this because it's based on unseriousness. And when it comes to consultants, I've always had a skepticism with them and I've always been far away from them because wherever they were, there's always a situation after them worse than it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40961	Thank you. Replica, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40962	Dear Maric, here I agree with you when you say who it is that triggers the guarantees, which are companies that do not carry out their obligations and should definitely be listed in a report like this, but it would be just as good to remind us once again how important a register would be where all those receiving both guarantees and grants would be found precisely because of the situation that the same people are not spinning and that they always do not receive money, i.e. grants. It would be very interesting to see, with the balances that would be necessary, with the situation or the credit rating of a guarantee company and which should also be seen in this report, what is the average of the salaries paid by those companies receiving grants to their workers and, for example, by the hours of those workers for that salary they receive. So these are all indicators that would greatly affect that we who need to raise our hand here for or against the report know in what way and by what criteria support and grants are shared.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40963	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40964	Thank you very much. counterparts Tyreli, of course, is the basis for the reports register and review of all those who have received or for whom a guarantee has been given or have received irrevocable support with all the most necessary indicators about them. We don't know if they might be taxpayers, whether they're paying the workers or not, whether they're in a pre-determined settlement or not. They may not be anything, but we don't know anything about this. why guess. It's not a guess in the economy. No data which is not measurable and verifiable is relevant, is not worth mentioning which is not verifiable and measurable. And only if it were to happen, and it will have to be the next time, will there be an examination then it would know exactly who he intervened for in both the commercial bank and the HBOR and the HAMAG and the business bank. But the Croatian state and every state creates a positive environment for entrepreneurial activity and does not assume this role that it regulates and assumes the role of creditors, the role of business banks, but it must create a positive environment because if it is not a positive environment then we will give guarantees, incentives we will give, grants will not return anyway, guarantees will be charged, and the situation will not change because the environment is not still positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40965	Thank you. And the last replica of Gordana Sobol. You're giving up. Thank you. And finally a few words I hope. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40966	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a thank you in the end, of course, for your constructive discussion. I may be a little sorry that more time and more attention have been paid to the form of the report than the actual content of the report, and what is in it in particular. The question of form here is we've heard everything from the PR agency's work to the fact that it's completely unprofessionally done really now I don't know what the real truth is about it. So if the PR agency was working, then I guess it's professionally done. But I can tell you that it wasn't the PR agency that did this report but the employees of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments worked. What I am pleased and what is particularly important to me to point out is that we all insist on transparency and therefore I am glad that more MPs in some way pointed out the importance that everyone has the right here is said someone has said that parliamentary representatives have the right to know who got the guarantees and who got the support of HAMAG INVEST. I say not only parliamentary representatives but all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all taxpayers have the right to do so. And that's what we did. So since the 1.4th year on the website of HAMAG INVEST you can go check out so practically on the daily basis you are wondering who got the guarantee who got the support. Unfortunately, it is not such a simple business, there is something called a banking secret, there is something that was not possible to do until negotiations with Croatian business banks, with HBOR and when we have done the job of 1.4 completely and completely transparently all the guarantees and all the support provided within the agency can be found on the HAMAG INVEST website. Personally, I don't think we should burden the contents of this report with that data. I don't know where we'd go if, with the HAMAG INVEST report, all the companies' financial reports were also submitted, and there were suggestions in this direction that were supported and guaranteed, I think that this content would really become a data forest and only then would it be extremely unreadable. Also related to consultants here is the same thing to look at, as regards HAMAG INVEST consultants they are 94, they are also publicly and transparently published on HAMAG INVEST's pages so you should go to the page and look. As far as the evaluation is concerned, unfortunately I have to say there are times when grades can be subjective, sometimes objective, there are still no clear criteria how and how individual consultants' work would be evaluated. However, what I can guarantee is that all certified consultants of HAMAG INVEST must pass the certification process and, in some ways, by passing this process, prove their quality or ability to carry out this work. Here's how much I thank you at the end of the debate for all the well-intentioned criticism and all the criticisms you've given us, of course, will try to correct the Agency's work and improve the report for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40967	Thank you too, Prime Minister. We have three replicas, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40968	Thank you, Vice President. So here I can't agree that the report is written in good form and that it's quality because it just can't be read the way we should read it, that's the first thing. The second thing you said about the content of the financial reports will be the data forest, unreadable and so on. Do not worry about how we will read it or whether we are able to read it. After all, if you think and say that everything is publicly published on the web pages, then when you bring a report like this to the Assembly, write it all down on a single page. Please check in or type in www etc. Then we'll take a look at it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40969	Thank you. Next replica Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40970	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Mr. Liovic, you said that not only the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, but everyone must also know that they need to know and that we can go to the website. Mr Liovicu, this is the Croatian Parliament and here are the representatives and they do not need to go anywhere, they have no right to go and find something, but it is your duty to inform us of the state of your institution that you are leading and that this report has both content and form. And it wasn't just the form that the MPs were talking about here, but most of all about the content, but that content has to have the proper form, and that it doesn't have the right form I'm proving that you haven't even delivered a brief report that you're obliged to deliver. You may not know that, but that's why he has a comprehensive report and a short report. And you can't burden any MPs with too much information, and we're not that we're going online. But this is the 2012 report, not for 2013 and there is no reason why you did not list it in the 2012 report who received the guarantees and who received the support. There's no business secrets, no banking secrets. You are required by law to inform the Croatian Parliament and it is not only our right but your obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40971	Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40972	Earlier in the debate, I think counterpart Maric said the report was understated by the parliament. Here is the speech by the head of HAMAG from the very speech of this final address, where he did not analyse what was said but almost slapped parliamentary deputies with half a sentence, the parliament once again underestimated. It's actually a real insolence the way you treat the MPs you say read, you have on the Internet, we're not going to write you, but we're going to write praises to me as boss and to us as a team. I think this deserves the contempt of the MPs, and here you answer us, not to you, and you won't... send us who's after matches, go and read to yourself. Learn order and culture and you need to know that this is the highest home in the Republic of Croatia and that you can't even us with the street, and that's how you treat us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40973	Comrade Vuksic, that seems to be entirely your perception. I must point out this time that the president of the administration did not do what you said but said exactly the opposite, that the documents that were highlighted here are on the web pages. It's your personal perception, and leave it to the chairman that he assesses whether anyone is insulting the parliamentary representatives or not. ... This concludes the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll vote when the conditions are met. ... The discussion of my colleague, Lesar, is closed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40974	Finally, the report on the business of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investment in 2012, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Economic Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Report on the business of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investment in 2012 is hereby accepted. year." Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 34 against and 3 abstentions, have been accepted. This concludes the vote, and we continue the debate on the proposal for a management strategy and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2017. ... /The noise in the hall./... I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40975	Moving to a new agenda point... Comrade Lesar, I give you a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't get the word, you didn't ask for it. Okay? I would like to thank the Deputy Minister and the President of the Board. We continue with - The proposal for a management and availability strategy of property owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2017 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When adopting a strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You've received reports. We have Deputy Prime Minister Neven Mimica with us. Vice President, do you want an opening? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. For the first time ever, a Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a draft strategy for the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia and sent that strategy to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The draft was drawn up by the State Office for State Property Management as an expert holder. The strategy proposal document is currently the only document in the Republic of Croatia which defines in detail and in full the coverage of state assets, analyses the characteristics of the situation and assets, and sets out the criteria and direction of action that the state should follow in order to manage these sleeping capital any more effectively. This is not just about the implementation of an obligation stemming from the State Property Management Act that envisioned the creation of such a strategy, it was supposed to have already been adopted by mid-2011, and not to say how much better it could have been for all of us if we had agreed and adopted a privatisation strategy already in the early '90s. There are clearly two types of delays in making and adopting regulations or other legal obligations. He's late once because there's nothing to do with carrying out legal obligations, as may have been the case with this strategy and the former government. The second time may be delayed because of a serious analytical and comprehensive approach to a job that may take a little longer than originally envisaged, as is the case with this strategy and this government. This is really about the fact that this strategy is one big and important both economic and legal and political issue important for the long-term sustainable development of the state as a whole, but also for the economy and society in the Republic of Croatia. The strategy prescribes, lists and defines 34 existing forms of state property, which is much more than two of the most frequently mentioned and most concentrated state activity, shares and shares in companies and on real estate. Now, other than these two forms of attention and activity, the remaining 32 forms identified in the strategy and for which guidelines are set out how the state intends to act in order to make these forms more functional and more integrated into the overall economic development. The Republic of Croatia, although relatively small, has one of the largest shares of total state property among EU member states. However, it is not easy to specify this value in detail because we do not have completed our own registers and estimates of state property, but according to the methods of assessing the value of state assets used in the EU, Croatia with an estimated value of more than 30 billion euros is the fifth among the Member States. However, our problem is that it benefits from this property, whether financially or materially, is not to the extent that state property provides a total social and economic benefit in other countries. Countries with relatively high value of state assets such as Finland or Sweden have between 2% and 4% of GDP generated from state-owned assets, and our percentage is below 1% of GDP, i.e. 0.7%. On top of all the depths of the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia, it points to the need for radically different use of property owned by the Republic of Croatia as well as any other property in the Croatian society. This strategy wants to improve this situation and therefore provides guidance on how to manage shares and shares more effectively in companies, then real estates and what to do to ensure that revenues from other forms of so far are as high as possible. The strategy gives a clear direction, guidance and task to complete the construction of the Register of State Assets and creates a basis for the creation of new regulatory management of state assets. Practically new State Property Management Act, which should simplify, facilitate and make the management process more transparent and sell and make available state assets. These guidelines would serve in the next 4 years as a reference list for the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. This strategy sets two very clear definitions. No sales, no privatization of natural resources. And secondly, there is no sale, no privatisation of shares and shares in state-owned companies that are of strategic importance, which provide public services and which can contribute in a very clear way to sustainable and overall development of the Republic of Croatia. It states which strategic companies are, but not so individually, because this strategy does not go for the choice of companies to which the state will pay special attention in business and governance, but rather defines categories that could include 20 strategic companies that do not go into privatisation. The ones we openly opt for not to sell. If so, it could only be done by special laws for each particular company. So, not by individual decisions of any government institution or government itself, but by law in the Parliament. The category includes 27 companies with majority stakes and shares, which are of development importance and 7 companies with minority stakes, which are listed in the Stock Exchange. The strategy also points to the urgent need to complete privatisation or to facilitate the sale of shares in over 600 companies in which the state has an extremely small share of shares or shares, and it is about companies in difficulties with no developmental and strategic significance and which are not normally listed on the Stock Exchange. The strategy does not determine individual societies and individual actions. This is because it follows the development of annual management plans which will be more detailed and which will define how to manage the shares. Annual plans will establish ownership policy according to each of the strategic companies, in terms of what the state expects or what it practically tasks each of these companies, which is to invest, earn and contribute to some general social needs. Such ownership policies were not until now, i.e. It hasn't been established for each of the companies. Real estate refers to what has been done badly so far and what has been done badly. For example, it is bad that over 40 million square meters of state land were given in ownership of units of local self-government primarily for the construction of entrepreneurship zones which, unfortunately, almost in most cases have not been established nor have some new production or new investment started there. If these 40 million squares had been used so that ten or fifteen squares opened a new job today, there would be no unemployment in the Republic of Croatia at all. Obviously, there was neither control nor good Real Estate Management Strategy. The real estate strategy therefore proposes centralisation of governance and decentralisation of the use of real estate. The idea is to give real estate mainly to the right of use and the right to build primarily local units, and not how so far it has been a practice of ownership, especially not in property that is not further controlled and supervised. In the case of other forms of assets, the objective is primarily to increase revenue from these forms of assets either through concessions, leases or in any other way. But in any case include as many forms of assets as possible and make more use of the financial potential of that asset. This strategy is not in itself a legal condition without which state property could not be available. The absence or waiting for the adoption of this strategy could not prevent privatisation or sale of companies in which the state has shares or shares. The State Property Management Act requires the adoption of a strategy, but also in transitional provisions enables the state to go to privatise its assets and until the strategy itself is adopted. Therefore, this strategy is now creating a common framework, i.e. an integrated governance model that will achieve governance and availability of state assets as an integral part of economic policy, investment and economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. It is important to stress that the great potential of property owned by the Republic of Croatia will not be expressed by itself or by fast selling, but only by creation, knowledge, organization, entrepreneurial approach and realization on the market under conditions of competition, and with much greater activation and installation of state assets in encouraging new, larger, private and public investments. Soon after the adoption of this strategy in the Croatian Parliament will follow the adoption of a new Law on State Property Management, and then the restructuring of the Agency for the Management of State Property of AUDIO and the creation of a total operational framework that will guarantee that this strategy will really be implemented. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I invite representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to a comprehensive and constructive debate on the State Property Management Strategy and I propose that it be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40977	Thank you too, Vice President Mimica. We've reported several replicas. Branko Bačić came in first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40978	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. In your opening statement, speaking of the importance of the moment at which we bring this Strategy, and how you speak by proposing on behalf of the Government that first proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Strategy on governance and availability of state property and I commend you at the same time criticising the previous Governments which did not bring such or similar documents. I would just like to say that this is not some special moment because we are discussing this strategy today, because neither is this a special step by government, because it is simply a legal obligation stemming from the Law on State Property Management, which is, by the way, being adopted during the government that you are criticising. Therefore, one more thing that should also be noted is that it is under the same law, and in accordance with Article 60, this strategy was to be adopted within 6 months of the entry into force of the law. Well, I must especially point out that 17 months ago, as far as this government is managing Croatia is concerned, and there has been enough time for this strategy to be adopted before, because some legislative proposals have come to this House which may be, and we will later in that constructive part of the debate that you yourself have called on us all together to point out that they do not agree and that they do not comply with this proposed strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40979	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40980	Your Honorary Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Mimica, you said this strategy brings two basic definitions. First, there's no selling natural resources. The second fundamental commitment is no sale of strategic companies, if I understand correctly. That is how something is read from this document, which is, however, controversial as this statement is, if we take into account the facts. If money is the main development lever as Mr. Maric said earlier in the previous debate how that Croatian Post Office is not a strategic company, how is it that the EU countries try to own as many shares as possible, i.e. the largest ownership of banks in their countries and neighbouring countries, and we are the only country that is easy to get rid of all banks. On the other hand, we help small private banks with public money. When we discussed the budget here in the Parliament then Minister of Finance Mr Linic said that we should sell the Croatian postal bank because we do not have enough money to restructure. I asked him how much it is, it's 800 million kuna to cut interest rates and make that bank competitive. After several days of debate in the Assembly, people who said those 7 billion kunas that were placed in commercial banks in the course of the year are willing to leave it at the disposal of the Croatian postal bank. What did the Croatian Post Bank seem to remain in Croatian hands and why is this not a strategic company?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40981	Next replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, Comrade Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40982	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Government. I also want to say something about your statement right at the beginning of the opening letter on how the past government was supposed to bring a strategy in mid-2011 and that the past government, I quote, was "fat late in this". So, if we take into account from mid-2011 to the election of about 4.5 months, certainly much less, three times less time than this government, which, of course, was supposed to adopt the strategy. But it's not the most important thing. I just want to remind you of an important thing. So, when we talk about delays, the fat delays of the last government, that government has dealt with and thank God it's not too late in the most important job, the business of all jobs, which is the conclusion of negotiations for EU accession. Thanks to these negotiations, Croatia becomes the 28th member of the EU within days, the Croatian language 24 is the official language, for the first time we will have a commissioner and that will be you. Congratulations on that. So thanks to the fact that the past government is not late in this business, you become the first Commissioner I sincerely congratulate on, if I know well, if I have good information of 20,000 euros. I, Mr. Vice President, and future Commissioner, wish you a lot of success in your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40983	Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40984	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honestly speaking, you gave a political speech, but this strategy is late for this government because it was a legal obligation that had to be done long ago. Well, let's let it go. It's better made than it's not made, and we can talk critically about it one way or another, and I want to pollomise with you just about one thing that you've brought out here clearly. You said it was a mistake to give local self-government units land to set up economic zones. Why is it a mistake? So can anyone manage the space better than the local self-government units? So this country is given to local self-government units based on spatial documentation. And no one can use that country for anything else. Many local self-government units have established economic zones in these areas and have created a number of jobs, some have not. But it doesn't mean he won't in the future. You must know that in the past 4 years of the economic and economic crisis, unfortunately, very little investment and your position to give space to local self-government units to take care of their development is, in my opinion, totally wrong and contrary to the economic and economic policy declared by this government. So the government can't dictate from above what's going to happen down there. So the elemental thing is that units of local self-government with their spatial plans open space for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. If units of local self-government do not create spatial plans to allow individual production spaces, tourist spaces to be and the purposes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia can do whatever they want, they cannot plant it wherever they want. Therefore, a completely guilty and offensive statement concerning the leaders of the units of local self-government, particularly as regards their representative bodies, because they were based on their spatial plan adopted on representative bodies to apply to the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the assignment of that land.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40985	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40986	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, I also look back on this part where you said that 40 million squares of state land were given to local self-government and that these 40 million squares were born nothing and no job. It's a complete lie and it doesn't stand in any form. I cite an example from my small municipality, which was given by the state a simple hill covered in maquis where 15 new jobs were created, where over a million kunas were paid from the country to exploit mineral raw materials, and there was usually a small hill. And if we keep thinking that way in local self-government, then we come into conflict with them because without that local self-government, state land is worth nothing, especially without spatial planning documentation. You can have as much as you want state land if it's not within certain zones their value is zero. You can have them written in both the garter and the land book, wherever you want, they're worth zero and no one's interested in them, and especially not any employer. How many tourist zones are planned on state land, how many catering zones or mixed areas? That's what this country's development is supposed to mean tomorrow. That way, access to local self-government, and she's saying they can't sell land, so why shouldn't they? Who's afraid of rich local self-government? So if the state wants her to bring in a spatial plan, let her break that obligation to the local self-government, and then manage in one effective way. Where are we gonna go? Nowhere. We have very much, and you yourself have said how much we have in relation to other EU countries of state ownership, and who is the one who estimates that the sale of Croatia's insurance is a good thing, and the sale of thousands of squares of state land that local self-government received under the law is managed, so she accidentally sold it to someone that it was a bad thing? If that's the agency, I think we're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40987	Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I haven't asked for a reply or a reply yet, this is not a direct answer to your line either. I just want to say that I haven't done it, I haven't given the answers to the replicas because I don't want to support the impatience in discussing this important topic, and I would like to see these questions that have now been raised in replicas as part of the real debate where there will be much more time on the part of both the representatives and on the side of the government's representatives to discuss this seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40989	Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Box. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will also refer to these 40 million square meters of local self-government units. Vice President Mimica, you obviously don't know what the state of local self-government is. So it's not enough to give the local self-government unit, regardless of whether it's a city or a municipality of land, and that's how the state solves all the problems. I have in my town a business zone and land that I got from the Republic of Croatia. But I have legal entities that built the facilities but I don't have electricity. Whose is HEP? Units of local self-government property or Republic of Croatia? You have to solve these problems and then we'll be much better at local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40991	Thank you. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? Here you go, colleague Beus Richembergh. ... I didn't notice. Excuse my colleague Vinkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, replica. ... On behalf of the debate? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. My colleague, Beus Richembergh, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40992	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, head of the office, colleagues and colleagues. At its meeting held on 28 May 2013, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a proposal for a Management and Property Strategy owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2017 on the basis of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. You've received an extensive report from our committee on your benches. I'm going to skip all the introductory parts that refer to what the promoter said more or less today, and I'm pointing out the following. Lands related to the pursuit of tourism activities have a remarkable problem with spatial plans. Serious investors will find it difficult to take in a concession or buy serious land complexes that could be placed in the function of carrying out their activities with existing spatial-planning constraints. On this note, municipalities and cities need to go into consolidation and harmonisation of spatial plans. It is also necessary to address the issue of return of property because a large number of land particles owned by the state are burdened with records and court proceedings and as such cannot be placed in the function of creating new values. The strategy did not cover or offer solutions to the problem of tourist land in campsites, resorts and hotels. Namely, the position of the State Office for State Property Management is that the problems of tourist land should be solved by a special law under which provisions the state office would then act, given that... there is no right to act in privatisation-related processes. A preliminary settlement in tourist companies pointed to major problems in most tourist companies where it is even questionable whether bankruptcy will be avoided. According to current estimates, the audio can write off around 132 million kunas of debt to these companies, a large part of which refers to loans from the former privatisation fund in these tourist societies. The proposer informed the board that there are further privatisations of some tourism companies, but what is again and here is indicative of the unresolved judicial process of return of property that significantly slows down these proceedings. In the discussion on the board, it was warned that the state owns a huge capital that contributes to social wealth to a very small extent. Unfortunately, poor governance of state property is the inherited problem of a series of previous generations. To the question referred to the applicant, which is directly related to the the thematic session of the committee dealing with former and non-perspective military assets, who will assume the obligation to manage former military facilities, it is responsible that... will take over these military facilities. It recalls that at this thematic meeting of the Committee on the availability of unused assets, it was found that a good portion of the property is still being held as a universal asset in land books. It's amazing how little attention has been paid to property and legal security at the disposal of these properties. We have 20 years of experience behind us that has shown that even in cases where everything has been solved, there is still no valorisation of the property in the tourism concept. An example that thoroughly illustrates this is the example of the Glog of the island and the island of St. Grgur who visit several tens of thousands of people each year without any control, organized programme, without any content that leaves local self-government without a significant part of unrealised possible tourist income. It is also pointed to the existence of strong interest that everything should be sold out on the grounds that the state is a bad master, while the other extreme is that nothing should be sold because it should be kept for generations that come behind us. In conflict these two approaches actually don't happen anything. The members of the board agreed with the intensities of the strategy not to prefer privatisation, i.e. the sale of state assets, but to highlight the right to use, the right to build, concession and joint ownership. The acquisition of ownership is much more expensive than the acquisition of the right to build, especially given the experience that the acquisition of ownership rights was rarely a space for abuse. As a particular problem in the debate, there is also an emphasis on the discrepancy of spatial-planned documentation, so it is extremely important as soon as possible to adopt the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia as possible at the earlier thematic session of the Committee. From the perspective of the Committee on Tourism, it is also important that the new Law on maritime good and seaports be adopted as soon as possible. The board members commended the work of the state office in drawing up the strategy. It has been written and thoroughly catalogued all that could have been done at this time, however, it has been noted that this strategy is only the first step in the long-term and sustainable settlement of the issue of effective availability of state assets. The state must finally show seriousness when it comes to the management of its own assets, as well as the seriousness in resolving unresolved issues of seized property. The fact that some 6,000 return requests have been recorded on former military property and none have been resolved has been defeated for the state and its administration. Such behaviour immobilizes large assets that have so far been able to achieve significant revenues. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament adopted a conclusion with the majority of votes, which accepts the proposal for a management strategy and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2017 and proposes its adoption to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40993	Thank you, too. Comrade Igor Radjenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Pejnovic with his associates. Let me present in the shortest lines the views of the Committee on Economy which, at its 21st session held on 24 May, considered the above-mentioned strategy. In his presentation, the proposing representative, which was Mr. Pejnovic, pointed out that this strategy is being adopted for the first time, setting medium-term objectives and guidelines for the management of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. At that time, the primary objective is to effectively manage and make available the assets and ensure that they are in service of economic growth and protection of national interests. The basic principles of property management of the Republic of Croatia are defined by this strategy as the principle of public, predictability, efficiency and accountability. Based on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2011-2015 programme, the strategy specifically mentions the necessary restructuring of the business of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, with the aim of increasing their effectiveness both in providing public services and in ensuring a net contribution to the state budget, as well as the activation of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia and putting them into function of economic development. The principles of property management owned by the Republic of Croatia have been stressed that local self-government will also apply to property. Strategicly important companies operating in Elektroprivreda, energy, transport, water management, forest management, mineral raw materials and other natural energy resources such as rail, road and air infrastructure will remain owned by the Republic of Croatia and will decide on possible privatisation and concession giving and similar legislation. Following the discussion, the Committee on Economy also decided, in the capacity of the parent committee, to propose to this Chamber, that the strategy, namely the Management Strategy and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013 to 17. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40995	Thank you, too. Does anyone else from the committee want a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40996	Dear colleagues and colleagues, at some point last night the work of the Parliament was interrupted for the SDP presidency session. We have the same meeting tonight at the party's presidency, so I thought I'd ask the chairman to stop so we can do ours. But I will, however, delay the session for our duties in the Assembly and we will not ask for a session to be suspended at 17.00 hours past all the arrangements and announcements that were made during yesterday. Mr. Vice-President of the government of Mimica I know nothing of what I will say today on behalf of the club will not be accepted, nor seriously considered because you must bring the strategy. I'll only speak to explain why we won't have this document and we can't support it. The other day I entered Zagreb and saw a big sign at a shopping mall that they were number one in Croatia. After adopting this strategy, the biggest chain of trade... will be the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it starts implementing this strategy or the largest concession society, however. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I did not go into replica when you said in the introduction that regardless of the strategy and the management plan was not adopted that the government had the power to dispose of state property. The transitional and final provisions of the law, in particular Article 60, which lays down the deadlines for the adoption of a strategy and plan, gave only the authority of the Agency to manage but not to dispose of state property. Managing means running a business policy and having the possibility of alienating concession sales and all ownership changes. I do not agree with you, therefore, that before the adoption of this strategy, anyone in this country, including the Government of Zoran Milanovic, had the right to make any decisions on the availability, which means selling. 13.4. The Ministry of Economy asks AUDIO about Croatia's insurance and whether it took place on April 13, 2012 The economy ministry asks AUDIO if they can sell the state part of Croatia's insurance. 24 April 2012 AUDIO responds that the co-owned part of Croatia's state of insurance cannot be available because there is no state property management strategy. 16.10.2012. I receive a written reply from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on my parliamentary question that the Government, I quote, has made a decision on the sale of state stake in Croatia insurance. 16.10.2012, the government replied that a sale decision had been made. On 30.8th of last year, in 2012 we referred to the procedure a simple document of conclusions that we tried to force the Government to come with this strategy before the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. It is on the agenda and you can see the wonderful debate on this proposal is not open thanks to the will and decision of President-in-Office of the Parliament, but is waiting for the strategy to come in order to become immaterial after 10 months of waiting. So much for co-operation and calling for all the good proposals that came from whoever came from the ruling coalition to be discussed. On 8 November last year, the government notes our proposal for conclusions and reminds us that the State Property Management Strategy was to be adopted by 30 June 2011, and the Annual Management Plan until 30 July 2011. These are quotes from the government's opinion. So we got one lesson in text and deadline and law. And that's when the Prime Minister cynicically said he couldn't comply with our request because the strategy can't be written in 30 days. We didn't ask them to write it in 30 days but to send it to the Parliament because we assumed that the strategy began to write on the first day of the takeover of power. So, January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August 8 months and not even then written, she came to the debate now after two decisions had already been made, even three on the sale of HPB, on the sale of Croatia's insurance and the launch of the procedure for the recruitment of highway concession advisers is a process of availability, not state property management. By content, this strategy is proposed and will be adopted only to satisfy the legislative form, not to answer five key questions why the Law on State Property Management is prescribed to be adopted by the Parliament, and only then can the Government manage and dispose of state property. What's the status? Srategy quotes: no property registers, databases are unsettled, much of the property is not registered in state accounting, is not covered by state statistics. Management coordination is difficult, there is no integrated governance model, economic policy management is difficult, the existing law does not include all the assets but only real estate, shares, or portfolios and business shares. There is a serious institutional problem in managing state assets. These are quotes from a description of the situation in the strategy itself. To which this problem corresponds to the strategy that these things will change in which direction, which solution is offered, and until 2017 it is offered to be solved. In addition, the strategy lists who manages all state assets: the State Office for State Property Management, the Agency for State Property Management, the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, HZMO, HZZO, the Fund for Excessive Assets and other 1,2,3,4,5,7 Ministries. This strategy offers a united model of state property management, two points and three questionnaires. It is interesting data from this strategy that out of the 85 largest companies in Croatia that have reached 228 billion kuna, 35 of them are owned abroad, 29 domestic private, and 21 of them are state-owned. So of the 85 largest companies in Croatia 21 of them are state-owned. And now in the strategy, it shows 631 companies of which 555 states are less than 50%, 61 greater than 50%, and 15 of them do not carry out business activities. However, state property is not only commercial companies, so state property is not only these 631 companies, but it would also remind you that it is property that is found in the document that there is no real estate list and that there is no assessment of the value of these properties, that there is no single model of value assessment of real estate, that state property and 300 military facilities, apartments and business premises, residence facilities, assets taken away for the purpose of committing or committing criminal offences, assets from a succession from the former state, concession rights on mineral raw materials, tourist land and that I do not now list any further. In order to see the future of governance and availability of state property, it took out of all these hundreds and several pages of documents to read only pages 104 to 113, because all of this before that is an illustration of the situation because only on the 104 pages begins with general indications that something could go in which direction. However, pages 67 to 62 list and classify companies in that category of strategic importance of them 27 and the Deputy Prime Minister said there is no privatisation there, and here on page 68 writes except when it is prescribed by law. It doesn't say special laws. INA is privatized by a special law. This formulation except when prescribed by law does not mean that Croatia's roads will eventually be... Istra or... or JANAF possibly privatise with a special law. Therefore, neither these 21 companies nor 6 legal entities are clearly stated that they will never, at any cost, be privatised but are given the possibility to be privatised by law. Moreover, companies are of development importance in which 27, for which their restructuring, privatisation or sale is envisaged, exit to the capital market, and inclusion in the next group, and the next group means less importance, strategic importance of this group 2 in which they, under which law, are. Specific regulations will privatise Croatia's bank, Croatia's insurance, Petrochem Kutina or others will be privatised under special law. We believe that, yes, we believe that the privatisation of Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal bank must be according to a special law if the government is to be privatised. The following are companies of importance and listed on the capital market, but the state has less than 50%, INA, Končar, Podravka, Đuro Đaković, Luka Ploče, Atlantic navigation, Sunčani Hvar. It's possible to sell further, but it's also possible to buy from thirds. I would be delighted if Vice-President Mimica had said that the government is considering this purchase of thirds means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will try to buy most of the shares of the INA and return to majority ownership, that Croatia has majority ownership in the INA, but cannot accept the fact that let's say one Podravka can be sold as a basket of apples, and this strategy allows it. After Dukat, everyone in this country swore that nothing more from the food industry in this country would be privatised because a large part of the producers with them are failing. 31.4 billion, so estimated, is the value of state property. That's 68% of GDP. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when you raise your hand for this strategy tomorrow, you must be aware that you are making a decision that only the Government of the Republic of Croatia will decide in the future on those 31.4 billion. And the Parliament won't have to ask any more questions. If that's the will of the ruling majority, it's legitimate, but then let's call it that. We have to sell the Post Office and Croatia's insurance because what's it gonna do to the state? Why would the state be involved in banking? Besides, we've proven we don't know how to run banks. These are quotes mostly from those who advocate selling everything. Who runs the telecommunications we sold to strangers? Who runs banks that were Croatian and sold to foreigners? Who are these people? How is it that we know how to manage somewhere there, and that here when there is state property and when on behalf of the state and the people we should make money on that property we claim there are no people in Croatia who know how to manage on behalf of the state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40997	Thank you. We have two replicas. Branko Bacic, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You say that you are surprised that the Presidency of the Parliament has put your proposal for a conclusion on state property management and in this consolidated agenda as a 36th point, and in the meantime, we are already discussing the strategy of governance and availability of state assets here today. I am not surprised because the situation is similar with similar acts proposed by other parties of opposition. So let's not be surprised that the government even proposes this strategy that is contrary to Plan 21, which the Kukuriku coalition won in the parliamentary elections at the end of 2011. Because in this Plan 21, the section relating to effective management of state assets writes strategically important companies that provide public services especially in electricity, energy, transport, water management, forest management, rail infrastructure will remain owned by the Republic of Croatia. In order to have two, at least two strategic and commercial companies such as Jadrolinija or Croatian Post Office d.d., you have dropped, you keep mentioning HPB, for me it is no less important even more important Croatian mail, not included in the companies of strategic companies and legal persons with public authority in which the state participates in the price of products and services. So it is incomprehensible to me that in this strategy, for example, or Jadrolinia is not among strategic companies and, for example, Croatian passenger transport. I don't see what makes the difference. So, so much for the consistency of the government when it comes not only to the opposition parties and to your party or to our party and other opposition parties, but also to the documents that are absolutely contrary to this Plan 21 which the SDP and their coalition parties have won in these elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u40999	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41000	My colleague Bačić, believe me, is becoming less and less surprised by some of the things and behaviors of the ruling majority, but when you mentioned that some companies are in category B, and why they are not A, you may have noticed that even in these last four pages being spoken in the future way of management and a lot of attention is devoted only to companies. The far greater value of state property is, for example, in real estate, land and what else I've been counting. Try reading the last 6 pages of the Management Strategy of this property. Therefore, whether land owned by the state, business facilities, apartments and other valuable properties is less important and significant, or whether revenue from the ownership stake itself in certain companies cannot be realised at all. I'm sorry another categorization has not been made, Mr. Vice President, which is categorization according to investment priorities, in strategic interests. So here is the categorisation by management mode, but there is no indication of priorities or criteria for investment and development priorities, from which I conclude my colleague Bačić did not deal with the part of the strategy of assessing the efficiency of good governance and the faster and greater return invested. So, that this state property does not bring 0.7% of GDP gains, but to come to, say, a European average of 2% to 3%, as it is in other countries. I'm not going to mention Norway, which is, say, 11%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41001	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41002	Dear fellow Lesar, it is important to be able to observe. One of your interesting thesis is how the directors of the Privredna banka in Zagrebačka banka, in T-HT when these companies are in our possession are not able to manage, and when they are owned by foreigners, these same people manage well. I think it is unfortunate that this government is being discovered in Croatia by the postal bank in time by the thief that the Croatian postal bank was not thrown on its knees and that there were some processes that led to the cured Croatian postal bank because they would say you see, we do not know how to manage banks, and the same director who probably knows something about banking would be the foreign owner who would buy probably because the government's decision had already been put in place. And second of all, you were wondering what solution the strategy was offering. There is no solution, and how will there be solutions when on page 24 where unassembled property is referred to as this: there are no data as to how much unassembled property there is or are currently carrying out activities to determine it. No one's working on it, it's being said here. How to manage and dispose of assets when no value is known or complains to know the value because it is not working. So all this great administration we have isn't working on it, and we want to bring a strategy. I think this strategy that you said at the outset is just because it was designed to be an alibi for a fig leaf for sale because we and the criminal application indicated that this government had started working against the law and then against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41003	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41004	In both Croatia and the European Union, there are a number of examples and evidence that ownership and good governance or bad must have no interrelationships. Whose property is Deutsche Telekom, who bought our telecommunications, who runs it? Whose property is Japan's tobacco? Whose property are the most successful companies in the Nordic states? State. And they have managers who make a yearly profit of 6 to 8 billion euros in state-owned companies because they manage well. And the thesis that has been imposed in Croatia for years, that the state cannot be a good master and good governance is only to force citizens to believe that the only solution is to sell and privatise everything because otherwise it will all fail. I could now list a number of companies that are present and successfully operating in Croatia, owned by other countries in the territory of the European Union, and owned by a state which is not private, for which many do not even know. I'm just asking a question if there's been a strategy and governance of state property, not just available, selling, why doesn't the strategy predict that the state will find ways and opportunities of the incubator to recruit and reach those managers who will manage the state's assets well and who will not be dependent on the political shift of government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41005	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Tonka Ivcevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41006	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, representatives of the State Office for State Property Management. In order to achieve effective use of public assets in order to increase public revenues, it is necessary firstly to clearly identify all existing forms of property in the portfolio of state assets, but also to clearly define the ownership and management rights of public assets, which is exactly what this strategy does. According to some surveys, state property in Croatia is classified, registered and valued in an inappropriate manner. The significant indistinguishability in the exercise of ownership rights and the neglect of the fact that state property belongs to citizens resulted in unfulfilled promises by public authorities concerning the establishment and provision of the most productive use of individual forms of property in the public sector. Some forms of state property have never been put into productive use. Other forms of state property and the way they were used were often linked and characterized by inoperable and ineffective, even before an assessment of the benefit/cost ratios of use and the assets and the question of the suitability and profitability of the selected mode of use was initiated. Privatisation thus remained not only the first but almost the only activity of state-owned property management, so the very concept of asset management was largely reduced solely to the management of the financial shares of the state in public enterprises. The sale of certain assets takes place to cover budget deficits, as well as to raise votes in election campaigns at different levels. The possibility of effective management of public assets beyond that has not been considered. It is necessary to look for answers and to propose systematic and implementing solutions with a view to increasing the efficiency of state property management in Croatia as a key condition for more efficient public sector business as a whole. In addition, a commitment to the creation of a single register of state property is included. By 2013, Croatian governments had developed a number of strategies and strategic development plans, unfortunately without detailed analysis of the assessment and evaluation, financial and non-financial assets owned by the state, state bodies, units of local self-government, companies, institutions and other institutions of the state. Privatisations carried out since 1990 have further complicated the state and value of state assets. The lack of records of assets is, in particular, a non-financial result of a vaguely profiled role of the state in the economy, which is why there is neither a clear vision nor a mission to manage and manage the use of assets. Quality recording and availability and sound management of state assets is necessary for the development of the real estate market, meeting the EU requirements in which the establishment and protection of ownership rights and the clear identification of property-legislative relations are the basis for responsible governance of the state and the growth of public and potential debt of the state. There is no single Register of State Property in Croatia and a particularly problematic list of non-financial assets. There are several registers covering certain forms of state property, such as Central register of state property that is in the works, Register of concessions, Register of agricultural land, Register of cultural heritage. It is necessary to assess the financial impact of income and income from assets, and in particular to assess the analysis of the public companies obtained and the revenues from numerous concessions. This information is relevant for budget planning and risk management of maturity and state commitments. It is commendable that the State Office for State Property Management will monitor the results of the business of state-owned companies as well as the ownership of local self-government units. Data on the value of assets, financial and non-financial, are the basis of sound management not only of property but also of government obligations. The State Treasury system and the Treasury's main book have long functioned without complete information on non-financial assets to ensure the construction of a consolidated balance sheet of the state. The Ministry of Finance is interested in the creation of a single register of real estate and value assessment in order to become an integral part of the State Treasury and has already developed instructions on the recognition, measurement and recording of state assets. The State does not have a balance sheet such as a consolidated financial report due to a lack of information on the value of non-financial assets. The comparison of the total assets and liabilities gives a quality picture of the state of finances which confirms the state of the financial assets and liabilities. This is very important because the assessment of the total value of the assets and the production of the balance sheet and the creditors would significantly reflect the change in the investment climate and the more favourable conditions of government borrowing on the financial market. State property management is a good step towards consolidation of state finances and increasing the credibility of the state in the financial market. This is particularly important in the context of the financial crisis because it shows the responsibility of the state not only to current but also to future financial outcomes and business results. The State Office for State Property Management should be commended and supported in the profiling of the final proposal for a strategy. The State Property Management Strategy is a legal and political issue relevant to the long-term sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to stress that according to the country's strategy, natural resources will not be sold as well as public enterprises of strategic importance. The status of these companies will be resolved by a special law. This strategy envisions the sale of state stakes to more than 400 small-owned companies. It is also proposed to use, in most cases, state-owned assets in the future, institutions and rights of use, rights of construction and concession in order to preserve what is particularly valuable and to make it possible to sell state-owned assets only in exceptional cases and in cases where the state-owned part is small and does not allow direct management as I have previously stated. I want to stress here what is already mentioned, the question of return of property, because a large number of land particles owned by the state are burdened with notes and court proceedings and as such cannot be put into function of creating a new value. I would also like to emphasise the importance of the recent adoption of the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports since this is a basic prerequisite for solving a whole series of problems that burden not only tourism but also the overall development of all maritime units of local self-government. At the end of all the praises to the State Office in making the strategy, I think everything that could be done could be thoroughly categorized at this point. However, it should certainly be stressed that this is one of the first steps in addressing the issue of effective availability of state assets. I hope that the adoption of this State Property Management Strategy will ensure that state property serves economic growth and that national interests are protected and therefore the SDP club will support the State Property Management Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41007	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41008	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I was a little confused by this actually fatazmagorical atmosphere where a young colleague of a faceless panegiric government reads not particularly well but reads in this panegiric also actually enters contradictions. Praise the strategy, the strategy is great but there's no list, no register, no information, no nothing. Well, God's people, and how do you plan to make a strategy and you don't have data, you don't have information, you don't have registers with what you're doing? Shouldn't you have done it a little while ago and then gone to work on a strategy? It seems to me that the key word, the key word of this strategy, is not management but availability. And it's only about the availability, it's about the sale. My colleagues said you wouldn't sell anything important unless the government decided otherwise. So one of the companies in category 1 is transferred to category 2. Then it's gonna sell and nobody's gonna ask us here, nobody's gonna ask anyone. And we forget that state property actually doesn't exist, there's no state property. It's not the state lady who inherited it from Mom, it's the people's property. It is the property of Croatian citizens with whom someone is wasteful and wasteful. And every government so far had 100, when she left it was 80. This one seems to have an intention of coming in with 100 things and going out with 40.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41009	Replication response, Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41010	So here's what I have to say if you looked at the strategy that this strategy first detected all the forms of property that none of them have said so far and we have as many as 35 phenomenal forms. These various appearances are in some registers and lists. Such registers need to be united in one place in order to have a single register. It is very important that a list of local self-government units is also found in this unique register so that all potential future investors can have all the data in one place. I don't think there's a single register, there are individual registers, and there's a need to work on all these registers actually being found in one common place in a single register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41011	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41012	Dear fellow Ivcevic, the list and the categorisation of assets is not a strategy. The strategy is how you will manage, the proposal for a management and availability strategy is written. If it's written on every page, but you've confirmed it, there's no activity at the moment to determine it. Look, that's what the strategy says, it doesn't even say we'll do it, it's not and it's not implemented, it's how it's going to be managed. You spoke of a vision, but before the Most High appeared, the believers would say, "I am not a believer, and he is also rebelling with a great storm against what is brought into the congregation." Visions, there's no vision, there's not even television or transmission, and then there's no vision. You commended the state office, how the state office that did what, wrote something that wasn't there or will be done. I think this is a mixed controversial text that doesn't offer a single solution, let alone a strategy, a text that will serve to sell out everything that hasn't been sold out, everything that's worth it and everything that anyone's interested in. So all the things you said were commendable in the first part you denied, and after that you said it was great how it was done. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41013	Replication response, Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41014	Well, here I am saying that so far nothing has really been done on quality state property management, which is true. I'm a witness who comes from a local self-government unit who's been visiting audio for 8 years, and in that period, I haven't been able to solve anything from the mayor of a small local self-government unit. In the past year and a half, I have to say that I've done my job in a very good way, and I've been there for eight years. Something has moved, audio and... really want to hear all the information from the field, want to do quality work, react, of course everything according to our spatial plans. From my experience, I can really say all the praises. Records exist, it is not true that there are none and certainly a detailed list is required behind this strategy. The strategy said that it is necessary to make a register, the strategy does not run away from it, and the strategy also gives detailed guidance in the emerging form of property, what with it and how and how to continue to dispose. It's defined in the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41015	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41016	Dear Madam Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm gonna start off maybe here with the end of this replica. I am pleased that you have solved these problems that you have not been able to solve in those past 8 years, which is enough to say that things in Croatia are obviously being implemented according to the Latin Sea Tempar, the time of custom that practically those who are closer to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or are in the same political option and those who are not, here I am talking first and foremost about the former Real Estate Management Agency, the AUDIO, the Governments, etc., that those who are further from that political option can hardly resolve certain demands that have been very much and somewhere as I have heard on the board today 18000 outstanding requests, perhaps more. The strategy, it is good that we have it and good that we can discuss the strategy and it should not be a sacred letter and should not be behind the strategy unreserved and in one such way practically what is written here is so and cannot be better. I say it can be better and we'll start from the beginning, so I'll talk a little bit about that plan 21 where decentralisation is mentioned. The introduction says among other things that effective management of the property of the Republic of Croatia promotes the development of the economy and is important for its stability, while contributing to a better quality of life for all citizens. In this Strategy, management and availability of the property of the Republic of Croatia means centralisation of ownership and management, so there is no talk of decentralisation but of decentralisation of use. Which means this decentralisation of use, whether it will be seen financially. So I don't know if and I don't know whether a member of the government, whether the Prime Minister, whether all the parliamentary representatives sitting here know better than what is needed in Donja Motičina for one unit of local self-government, what is needed in Đakov, Čakovec, Varazdin, Zagreb or in such a way wants to solve this problem with complete centralised. Almost all philosophers and almost all philosophies except certain steps claimed that the state was just the worst master. It's visible to a series of examples that I'm going to say later. This is also evident in recent Croatian history, from history should learn not to let the sale of INA, who started it, who finished it, INA is lost. That the sale of Croatian telecommunications doesn't happen. And the fact is that my predecessors said that almost all the members of the administration were either members of the government or even ministers, was that they claimed that simply without selling, and even the directors of those Croatian silver, or gold when they worked there, they claimed that without privatisation it could not move forward, and it does not work well, etc. And then these same other directors, and when it became foreign property, all of a sudden it got better. I can be pleased that this strategy says there will be no sale of other Croatian treasures. However, I am not fully satisfied that the foundation of this strategy is the full exclusion of the Croatian Parliament and giving in accordance with the legal provisions and regulations most likely to be adopted the next day, giving enormous authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia who will indeed be the manager of all the properties in the area, owned by the Republic of Croatia, all the good ones and so on, so I would say even without the opinion of the public, without the opinion of those who elected them or without the opinion of the representatives and the Croatian Parliament. So what the HDSSB club is going to require at this point is that we can discuss the strategy, but this strategy I think we are not in a hurry anywhere, no matter what 1.7 is very close and that this strategy should be along with all these remarks that you will hear today because it is difficult to write amendments on the strategy. First of all, we need a strategy and we should set a common consensus. And the proposal of the HDSSB Club is that this strategy goes into two readings like that Tourism Development Strategy where 95% of that strategy was aimed at Adriatic tourism, and only 5% towards the continent, according to continental tourism, and that was not good. The same debate was held in the afternoon Thursday morning, the next morning we can trust you as Deputy Prime Minister that you will install something into the strategy, that the government will do something about it, etc. But believe me, I'm 47 years old, I'm 48 years old, and I don't really believe in Santa anymore. The other thing that's going on here is the question that's about local self-government units. So, I deliberately did not speak on behalf of the Committee on Local Self-Government, not wanting to waste time, but the Committee on Local Self-Government has discussed this fact and, in particular, I think that, in a certain way, I would say insults, so those who have now been elected directly, insults and city councils, county councils, county councils, insults and those who have lost because they have run and offered citizens a better life under the Law on Local Self-Government, and this strategy virtually prevents local self-government from using any of these potentials in their field. Also, this strategy does not allow the government to use these potentials, as these potentials are closely linked to the overall space-planning documentation. We have very fast changes to the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia that I should have had a broad public debate, not only in the public debate in order to satisfy certain political interests, in order to draw the Pelješki bridge on a particular map, so that the entire pipeline and pipeline through Slavonia can bypass one large majority of Slavonia etc. etc. but should have been in the public debate and with units of local self-government that should have been actively involved. It's similar in this strategy. So, the local self-government unit, some with the help of regional self-government, some and with the help of competent ministries, were due to adopt a basic development document until 2005. It's a spatial plan. Units that were larger should have adopted general urban plans, etc. And between that, in most of these plans and in addition to the unit development strategy of local self-government, you also had the adoption of so-called development goals and units of local self-government. These are among other things the famous business zone. But believe me, it's not enough to give only land because even in those 8 years, those revenues from the local self-government unit weren't so big that they could build one industrial and one business zone with the entire municipal infrastructure themselves. It's a lot harder today. Because at the time of decentralisation, there's less and less income from the local self-government unit. So you have in many spatial plans of a unit of local self-government, agricultural land that has entered the building zone, one part of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia is because in the early 1990s, the state has reacted without delay and entered it into its property. So she enrolled among other things and ownership of local communities, ownership of local self-government units, etc. and thus in the early 1990s poored the entire local self-government by enrolling properties that were not owned by the Republic of Croatia but by those socio-political communities as they were already called, I wasn't that much because I wasn't involved in politics back then. Even to those all-powerful party committees or I don't know what. They were made not out of membership fees but from various funds but the state signed up for it. Through conversion and privatisation, it must also be clear that we go along with rare exceptions, and the exception confirms the rule, the Republic of Croatia has been robbed and that is where this whole problem is moving to this day. There are many companies, many companies standing and staring empty in many units of local self-government, the state owns them. It's very difficult to get to these properties that are already many to say about the collapse. One is here, and I will mention that former PIC administration building Djakovo, which I claim is also the former Prime Minister who may have had a good will but has made one wrong decision where the city is practically a bargaining contract where the city should give up estimated value of 26 million kuna to take it into its own possession. There is a decision by Racan's 2002 government to move all state institutions to, therefore, leave a number of facilities here in the city of Djakova. This is so in all, I claim in all units of local self-government the then state administration, the state administration's offices did not respect the government's decision and it remained until today. And that building definitely failed. The state on it has losses, it is the state that should invest in its own building and should primarily maintain the building in its own possession, not allow it to fail. Other properties that would result in the completeness of the facility should belong to the city of Djakov. Because only the city can take proper care of these properties, not the state. So, the only unit of local self-government. So this is how reading these laws and looking at those promises of decentralisation, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I have the feeling that local, regional self-government is a burden to this country, that it's not part of the state. That we belong to that dark side of those Star Wars, that Darth Vader or whatever his name is. Because this law is also a blow, and this strategy is a blow to local and regional self-government. I will not mention now the issue of these strategic Croatian postal companies, Croatia insurance but be assured that in every unit of local self-government, in every regional self-government, in every village, municipality, city in this beautiful state there is a series of dead capitals which the state knows neither the name nor knows that it is the owner nor simply has a way to solve the future of that. And that is definitely a clear picture of what this strategy does not bring. So here I am asking you on behalf of the HDSSB Club to simply, because we have enough time, this strategy with all observations goes in at least two readings and to avoid what is written immediately in the introduction, and that is one very dangerous thing and that is centralization and giving great powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41017	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41018	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned some privatisation processes there from 10 and more years ago, given that in one privatisation a lot has already been told but is constantly avoiding the fact, which is that the Croatian Parliament adopted the INA Privatisation Act on 19 March 2002. It now gathers what will be privatised, etc., and then the strategic decision of Article 4(6). The Republic of Croatia retains the ownership of 25% plus 1 of the INA shares that will be privatised under a special law following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into EU membership. I guarantee that many of the colleagues standing here in this High House that they don't know this because they didn't have a chance, they weren't interested, and this is the truth about INA colleagues and colleagues. This was passed on March 19th, 2002. Just like at that time a strategic decision because then you were sold 16% but with a 35-percent HT control package, 16% sold and gained practically Deutsche Telekom had acquired a majority stake and then all the shares were practically according to how someone else conducted them. So much for strategic administrations and so much for the Croatian Parliament to decide how to privatise something. But this is the 19th of March 2002 brought to the High House. Most colleagues don't know about this, even though the INA was talked about was a commission and everything, so you even have on board when I said it was so some colleagues who today the SDP ministers told me they were lying. Here's the law you can find on the web site.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41019	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41020	Well, that's what I warned my colleague Shucker about, I think, a month ago. And I'm very well aware of what's in that 2002 law. 1.7 is very close. So the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't know about the law that says that INA will sell further and that's definitely the case. I am not saying this because I have no reason not to trust any government to want well for the Croatian people and Croatian citizens. But again, I'm saying that everything that's happened this 23 years and since '66, when I was born, I have no reason to believe but to trust no one without a doubt. And for this reason, this strategy, regardless of what I think, is well done and I think it should be considered, should be upgraded because here the main problem is the complete centralisation of the management of the property, giving enormous powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which now has no knowledge, depends on the assessment to the assessment of the vast billions of Croatian ownership, the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, without any influence of the Croatian Parliament. It says here that special laws will be passed, etc. But what it says can and doesn't have to be. Here's to not taking the time here. Let's solve INA first, so let's withdraw this law from 2002. It's been 11 years. No government has considered that. I don't know, I didn't make the first one, not the second one, not the third time selling INAs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41021	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41022	Dear colleague Vinkovic, you told him at the very beginning that this reading was not the Holy Scriptures. You'll see it is because the second sentence behind that was probably going to be adopted tomorrow. As soon as it's adopted, it means it's going to become the Holy Scriptures. You said INA was lost and according to this document that we've heard about now from fellow Shucker but if we confess now we're actually just stepping forward to this fact if INA's on the stock market that means that it can be bought by the state. Stocks can also be bought by the state. However, has the state been shown to buy shares? The state says the same thing, the state is an incompetent master, the state can't manage. We need to sell it all out. So what seemed to be in 2002 is just continuing now. It's the same story means 11 years old. One important thing, Podravka is classified as a company that can really sell whoever it wants, whenever it wants, and agricultural production, food production, for example in France is a strategic branch, there is strategic food everywhere. It'll be more important than gas oil. But the way we acted, so Dukat was sold that we didn't even know. They said it was a private company. Well, it doesn't matter. Is the state interested in buying Dukat? She wasn't interested and the question is, at all, what the state is interested in. The Parliament will confirm that all powers are taken over by the Government, what you said, and the Parliament will be excluded from this process from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41023	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41024	My colleague, for this strategy not to repeat everything I said, it takes a series of laws here to give me this good intention that there is no such centralization that there is no of these great powers of government to decide on the sale of ownership of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the day would be good if we had one such document. And that is why we are asking for it to go precisely in two readings to avoid and we are at the threshold of EU entry where you believe a lot is decentralised, that problems are being solved in the local environment, that we don't even have to go to the EU we can go to the Republic of Macedonia and see when virtually huge centralised has been abolished when decentralisation is introduced that countries are starting to emerge from the crisis, that new jobs are opening up, etc. The problem of Croatia, the problem of unemployment, the problem of poor management of Croatian assets cannot be claimed by me forever, this is my 6th year, and since I've been dealing with politics, I've been arguing that it can't be solved here in Mark's square, either in the Parliament or in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Parliament can pass laws that will go in favour of local self-government, the basic problem is solved below. Just to solve the problem you have to have a tool, and in this case the tools are real estate, are land, after all there are financial resources without which units local self-government cannot. And at this point you can only be sentenced to collecting leaves, cleaning snow and weeds and eventually helping through social... Clubs and.../The speaker doesn't understand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's it and paying the employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41025	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41026	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your discussion, you asked your colleague Vinkovic what decentralisation of use was. It's a modern concept of decentralisation used for the last 10, 15 years. We're all about our local self-government being strong, having big incomes, doing good work, now there's local elections. But when a document comes like this, then we realize that there is no first letter of decentralisation, let alone the whole word. Because the perception of Zagreb is that all the value in Zagreb, that all the value is only in people who run either the government or the ministry, etc., that there are no good, benevolent, real mayors at local level, the mayors who manage their property or property that they are given for use under the law. So then we have these on page 84 definitions that any entrepreneur who wants to invest in an area simply deters any attempt. The same is true for you according to this strategy a well-valued concession by the sea or some property that is by the sea but is not a maritime well-being and in state property as well as a piece of land or real estate in some remote part of the Republic of Croatia, perhaps on Velebit or elsewhere. It's in the same basket. We did not skategorize what might be possible to sell if it is in the function of entrepreneurship or development. You'll be in a position to have dozens of private parcels within some area bordering the property owned by the state. You'll be able to buy these, you'll have property, here you can gain only the right to build or serve. When with this right of construction and service you come to the bank then they say leave it to someone else that they don't want to finance. I don't know why we're running away from exceptions and we can't write it in a strategy that in exceptional cases the donated country can sell if it's in the function of developing entrepreneurship. So since we already have a provision that we will control and review the determination of the responsibilities of mayors, mayors, municipal mayors in case their irrational treatment of donated property is caused by damage to the Republic of Croatia Then why not install it as one element that we're all safe. [[Thank you, thank you.]] Because I think it's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41027	Replica response, reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41028	... The only way in Croatia was through that public partnership of local self-government units gave land and on this basis it was the right to build where the investor was, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is, but in a way, not in the way that was realized afterwards in the budget, that then you have to secure money to practically pay off this project, no one smart will even work for you unless you have 1/1 property. In most cases, unless it's a 99-year concession and I don't know what. But, again, I say responsibly, so you have, and that was also in that former, as the state of Yugoslavia is called, you have both in the environment and in the incomes that are larger, far larger, you had a law that defined if agricultural, unbuilt agricultural land enters the building zone of local self-government units there is an automatic ownership of local self-government units. So local self-government and regional self-government is the Republic of Croatia. It's not the Republic of Serbia, it's not the moon, it's not Mars, it's not Venus. But we are still on the planet Earth in our beautiful Croatia. But all laws seem to be written against units of local self-government. So is this strategy. Because we know best what you need in there and how you should do it. Either it's an agency or it's a government or I don't know who. Well, it's not like that. That's why I'm asking, and this is one of the biggest reasons why this strategy goes into two readings. Because there's nowhere to rush. We haven't been 10 years old, so we don't have to have another month.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41029	Thank you. You've got more replicas, so you'll continue. Nikola Vuljanic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41030	Thank you. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that mantra everyone repeats without a good reason because they don't think what the state means is a bad master. In the property management of the state does not occur through its 4.5 million or 4 million, as many as there are already citizens, the state performs through the government. Now a bad master is a thief's government. What she showed, she stole what was given. Bad master is also incompetent to be seen through the INA and seen today. A capable government and a government that doesn't steal should not be a bad master. Unfortunately, we haven't run into one yet, but I hope that will happen in Croatia in the near future. And it's also contradictory throughout this strategy that the government is actually saying that same sentence. The state isn't a good master, so we'll sell everything that's not exactly what I think we're going to die for. But if the state and that government think of themselves as not a good master and we trust them to be good merchants, they'll sell it to the world's best. No, they're not. They're gonna sell 10% of what they're saying right now. They're gonna sell 10% of the value of key companies that the state intends to sell. Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal banks. So if the state is a bad master, then I guess he's a bad trader. So let's not let them trade with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41031	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41032	Look at my colleague Vuljanić, so I wouldn't even have attacked the government by now because here's how many hours and minutes, seconds until the famous vote. I said that I was Prime Minister and a member of the government, definitely, and the responsibility is on us parliamentary deputies, definitely on us, were the position, were the opposition, but the greater responsibility in the position to simply realize that something doesn't have to go by the emergency procedure, come here today at four o'clock and let's adopt it tomorrow regardless of whether it's left in this debate until half two in the night or the rest of the morning. But the most dangerous thing for Croatia is centralisation, so throughout history Croatian people, Croatian citizens fought precisely against centralisation. We have pre-election promises, we have the European Union, Mr Mimica you know what the European Union is and you know that it is not centralised. It is because it decides 3, 4 countries that have and have established the European Union, that they decide on everything, that we little ones will have to shut up and play by their rules, but there is a strong level of decentralisation in all these countries. Before they spoke to us, it was an immediate response and colleagues, before they replied that there was no Belgrade, what we have now is that there is no Zagreb, there I am not thinking about the city of Zagreb, but I am thinking about the institutions of the authorities in Zagreb and that state. And it's fact and truth, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41033	Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41034	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Vinkovic, you said this strategy prevents the use of the unit's potential for local self-government. That this is the case on page 43 of paragraph 47.1 says that a large share of the real estate portfolio is a building plot that represents great potential, then it is said that therefore further coordination of the state's attorney, the state's office, along with the local administration, is crucial to register the portfolio as soon as possible as possible as possible as the property of the Republic of Croatia. What it means in translation, is that the Republic of Croatia puts on its paws on everything that was in the building area according to spatial plans. There's a rabbit in that bush. So we local self-government units regardless of whether to be a position or opposition are easier to understand than those who write laws because we speak out of practice. It also speaks of this on page 85 of point 98, resolving property-legal relations between the Republic of Croatia and units of local, regional self-government. Why am I saying that? You and I know that everything that has been in the building area according to the former spatial plans of the former municipalities that the Republic of Croatia has entered into this building land and that we have absolutely nothing today and that we cannot deal with it, or we can plan but we cannot make good use of that land. Therefore, I am also referring to my appeal, i.e. from this is visible since units of local self-government are mentioned countless times in this strategy that there has been no coordination between the associations of cities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's visible from the submission. Mr. Obersnel is as far as I know the president of the City Association where he suggests that all that land that was according to the spatial plans in the building zone to return to the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41035	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41036	There's not only building land, there's agricultural land, there's real estate. Here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Djakov, owner of the Dračica social home, which is what it is called and it is a building 4 with 4 which the city has restored so that children do not get hurt there, they put on a tennis table, but someone in the agency probably thinks it's huge value. Now, this year and a half, it's been believed for 23 years just because someone entered the social home of the 1990s into the property of the Republic of Croatia, just because. You have an officer's home, I again claim that the Prime Minister has been deceived, where it says that the value of this property is 2.3 million kuna, a decision has been made by the government, but the entry into the ownership list does not have to be made because that building is registered in the property of the city of Djakova. It speaks enough of things that the state itself has no real estate register at the moment, no idea, not this government but all governments so far have no idea what kind of wealth this is except for these Croatian insurance companies, Post office banks, etc. And that the state is actually the worst master and it's not mantra. It is a fact, not here in Croatia but everywhere in the world, and the best master is when he sells it, obviously, because then everyone who bought that state property, ownership of the Republic of Croatia, all profited at it. We were the only ones who couldn't, only us, as if we were fools.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41037	Thank you very much. colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41038	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It's been so long since you've finished your presentation because there have been a lot of replicas and almost everything I wanted to say has been exhausted, but first of all I want to support your intensities, the suggestion that this strategy is possible if it goes in two readings. That would be very good. The debate was constructive, and I think the promoters should appreciate it very much. About your memories of the past that the government went through well, what she did was good things. I remind you of a joint project and about Djakovchanka, etc. However, so as not to turn out because there was actually an interesting debate here when we talk about the property of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia because that's what state property somehow turns out that then the government and all the governments so far and this and all the past were a bad girl in that sense, and all the units of the local self-government of a good girl. It's not like that. I witness many important decisions on the donation of property to local administrations and self-government where a lot was done, so when the city, the municipality got some real estate it was an excellent starting position that some project was excellent for the citizens of that city or the municipality and a lot was made, and where nothing was actually done and the government actually donated real estate to the wind and extremely valuable and important real estate. Of course I'm not going to talk about certain cases, so in this strategy I like this proposal, one of the proposals to make this donation, for example, become an exception, and to use other options. I'm saying because there have been cases that in a donated, valuable real estate absolutely didn't move one brick. But there were great projects. So here's what I'm proposing to the government to leave enough time for us to discuss this one more time because we seem that the debate will ultimately be very constructive with a lot of good proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41039	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41040	I'm one of those who doesn't look black and white, there were good things I don't say. There was Đakovština is one of them, but ergel was one bad thing. But aside from that. And there have been examples in many units of local self-government, and I say again that, first of all, because of political similarities, they got either a certain land or a certain real estate, and they didn't know how to dispose of that property. But I still argue if this land is better owned by a local self-government unit than owned by the Republic of Croatia. Every four years we have choices. So if that chief or city council doesn't do something with that particle that was owned by the Republic of Croatia will lose the election, it's definitely clear. And so many have lost. But to argue that above all, what is marked, therefore, is in certain spatial plans and is located as are agricultural land of particular interest for local self-government, building land located within the building area, so I see no reason why the Government must manage them from Zagreb, from the agency. It is a far better way to have a local self-government unit at the disposal of both land and buildings. It's the only way we can move forward, decentralisation, not centralised, and in every law, centralization, centralization, centralization. It's like we're going back to the Middle Ages instead of going to the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41041	And Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41042	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, therefore, you've been very focused in the discussion of decentralisation. When you take the State Audit report, then you will see that most of the local self-government and regional governance has quite a grudge from the State Audit, which means that not only or donations discussed, but also those who own them, i.e. owners as local self-government, were not adequately managed, undeveloped, but not registered. This property record is essentially the item of this strategy regardless of the guidelines defined by this strategy, the guidelines which are essentially the programme of this coalition government. What I would also like to point out, and you've criticised a lot, and it's about the way you don't give rights to local self-government. If we exclude the situation in which they themselves mismanage their assets, it also clearly states here that after making records of the property, or central register, because without it we absolutely cannot manage the property, nor think about what and how the assessment of its development potential, value assessment and activity will include all property users in the Republic of Croatia, and what is crucial in the function of economic development. Therefore, all units of local self-government will be included if we want to put in the economic development of property after we record it, and what is crucial for the local community is the owner of the purpose of space. Therefore, if the state wants to, and wants to, function everything, it will co-operate with local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41043	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41044	My colleague, I believe you didn't trust yourself now, for God's sake. And Plan 21, and don't think that some things are good and good in that Plan 21, and maybe that's a good idea, but nothing's been done. One of the basic things is decentralisation, so decentralisation is also about management, not just about use. And I think you must understand that. So every rule, or exception, can confirm the rule and it doesn't have to. The audit found a lot of things in local self-government units, regionally. She also found it in public enterprises, found it in state institutions. And you can't say that everything that happened in Croatia is the fault of local self-government. On the contrary, local self-government can give you a lot, but there isn't. Look, you took everything you could, everything out of 100 kuna of some tax revenues three are heading towards local and regional self-government including the City of Zagreb. The state remains 97 kuna. So if the state is such a good master, local self-government can't even make that tax on unbuilt construction land because it's a constitutional category, you can't, so let's get me an investor. And I can't bring an investor into state land. Not to mention the problem with the geodetic-catastrian measurement, that most of it can't be done in this way, etc., etc. Here is my appeal that this strategy that can be upgraded, can go and turn from the direction of full centralised into decentralisation, reduce the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, give power to the Croatian Parliament in two readings. Thank you very much and thank you to the colleagues who let me talk earlier on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41045	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41046	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the proposings, the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. All the stories that have been told here today about this document and all that is said if we really tried to sum up in one word, it would be a matter of finally, no matter what anyone thinks, finally in this House after more than two decades of the existence of the Croatian state we have some kind of document of which, of course, in a democratic society in one Parliament, there should be different opinions and everyone has the right to think about it well or bad. But there's finally something in front of us called the State Property Management Strategy. Why in the name of the HNS club do I say that this document has finally arrived and that it is good that it has arrived? Because all of us, both younger and older in this House, have witnessed how it was managed by the state property and resources that are the citizens of this country, I would not only say inherited from the former generations but also borrowed from future generations. On several occasions, by commenting on some of the legal proposals that were indirectly or directly related to this matter, I used to say that in Croatia it had not been managed but had not been supported, that there was no system or concept and that it was precisely that that fact that caused great damage to the economy, great damage to national interests, that we had missed much of what we had to do. That it is the very fact which was also the subject of today's debate, which is that it is yet to be established by the Register of State Property. So far, and for some time, we don't have a full register to list all the resources that are listed in this document by categories. We don't know how much property we own, the characteristics of all these properties, the area of agricultural land of another category of national goods, so we couldn't even afford it. What we in HNS consider to be the fundamental value of this document is its main guideline, which is that national wealth is not sold in further management except in some clearly specified cases, the fundamental intensity of this document is that national wealth is subject to a degree of rights of construction, giving to use and not selling. And that's good. Because even during this debate, we discussed certain cases through replicas, through the discussions that we gave up part of national wealth under not very happy circumstances. What I am interested in as an agent, and this is, among other things, part of the story relating to the privatisation that they carried out and controlled exactly the institutions in which the authority and the responsibility to rule national property, not alluding to any particular case of privatisation by saying about privatisation, I am generally asking again in this House what society is and what will the company do in the future when it comes to those privatisation contracts from which it is apparent as from the aircraft that whoever privatised the company has taken on certain recapitalisation, care or detention obligations at the work of a number of workers did not do what society and state would do with such cases? Such companies, which are privatised and the owners have not carried out the acts of the contract, are now owned by such owners and many of them are in business problems. Is this country willing to carry out a genuine review of privatisation, to establish those contracts in which it is quite clear that there has been no fulfillment of the act in the contract and to return to the legal way by such a company in its possession and to give them a chance again? That's part of it. The second part is the experience of the local self-government unit. In one piece, I have to agree with my colleague Vinkovic, the other local leaders of local self-government in the claim that local self-government is not a bad master with those properties and values that were donated to it or given to use. There have been various cases and various methods of injurement. The practice and experience has just shown the opposite, due to the lack of strategy and concept, due to the stychical management or failure, the transfer of property to mercy and not mercy, not the keeping of concerns and the account of the Republic of Croatia, I responsibly claim damages in billions of kunas due to the devastation and destruction of buildings and properties that no one has ever taken account of. And now that we've finally opened this process today because this isn't the safe end of these problems, this may be the beginning of the end, we now find a thousand and one regret in that this strategy is on the agenda today. Unbelievable but true. No one mentions one important fact, strategy is not law, strategy is guidance. A series of guidelines setting out how and in what way it will be managed in the future, and the implementation or mandatory document which should be clearly laid down and the powers and responsibilities of the institutions, individuals in the management process is the State Property Management Act, which, in our opinion, should be adopted as soon as possible in accordance with this strategy. And in accordance with this strategy, it may be possible to implement amendments and additions to some of the other laws which are in force and which do not fully correspond to the basic guidelines and content of this document. The issue of decentralisation and giving local self-government regardless of my mandate as a local official has expired and I continue to advocate that units of local self-government for different needs are given unused resources because it is better for them to at least temporarily use it for the general good, for example, for the functioning of public service, for the work of civil society, for any positive purpose, for ultimately economic activity as business incubators, business zones and spaces. It's better than letting ourselves have the luxury that objects that had a full clear value today are devastated ruins after 20 years don't worry. It's the fact that it happened and that all of you who were or were in local self-government and who, for example, had in the area of your local self-government of former military property know that's the case. I assure you that "How did the war on my island start" movie today could not be made at the Military "Minerska" because from the day the film was made... Breshana, this army has failed for twice. And only now is it given this year to use the local self-government unit that we're going to have some plans but I believe our heirs will be responsible and find ways to use it for real purposes. We have also missed a number of these properties to function in the development of tourism and other branches of the economy in Croatia. As much as we could develop projects in tourism in the premises of former military forces over the past 20 years, it would be very likely to be difficult to count. What I noticed in this document and what I want to point out is that this document speaks about the category of ownership, and property includes among other things available, and available includes the possibility of alienation or the sale or load of the mortgage. And also under state ownership categories are the categories that actually fall legally into the general good, such as the maritime well-being. I draw attention to and the position of the CNS again that the agricultural land of the first category, which is common good, Croatian waters, Croatian forests and maritime goods should never be reduced to the Institute of Classical Property and that never those 4 types of resources belonging to future generations should be in any version of the subject matter of sale. Because if we open Pandora's box, it's only a matter of time before she's pressured by current problems and weaknesses by some government or this government or some future government reach out for selling it. These values that belong to future generations must remain permanent values available to the people of this country. I therefore welcome, in particular, the fact that the main direction of this document is to apply concessions to construction rights, concessions, rentals and the like, and that this strategy provides for the sale of further family silver to be removed for miles as far as possible. We've lost a lot of good, and we've lost a lot because of the lack of such a document and those laws that should be precisely made and the outcomes of this we've missed and we've done a lot of bad. I think it's time for this document to be the beginning of the end, and to get into this House as soon as possible a new Law on State Property Management and to make changes to all those laws that need to be amended and harmonised in order to monitor the basic intensities and the intention of this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41047	Thank you very much. And now you have eight replicas. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41048	Kolega Baranovic, have you noticed that this strategy proposal comes from the assumption that there are no companies in Croatia that are on the list of privatisations and concessions in progress? This document acts as if the government had not already decided on the sale of Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal bank, opened an international tender and paid 18m to 28m kuna advisers to complete the process. The strategy is not written by the Croatian Bank, the Croatian Post Bank and Croatia Insurance are sold. They, the author, act neutrally as if I don't know that the government has already made those decisions. That's the first one. Secondly, the State Office for State Property Management and Mr. Pejnović could also confirm this or... is the alpha and omega implementation of this strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He coordinates, unites, connects. Staff, resources, real estate experts, law, tax and financial advisors... infrastructure and applications to implement that final part of the strategy only around real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we have that in the State Office right now or do we not? Because we give him such a task. That's the third negativity of the strategy. And fourthly, I'm sorry that in your debate you just looked back and rightly concluded that we have had a failure but this strategy is not only about governance but also about availability. So available means sales.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41049	Reply to the replica Petar, no, Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41050	Thank you very much, so colleague Baranovic you said in your debate that non-sales, so property, state property, that's the last line of defense of this government, that's a good move, that's something that's great. If local self-government were bad masters, that's how it turned out. Then you stated that they were the bad masters but the properties owned by the state and in their area were all destroyed. So that master who owns the property, he's a good master, and he's devastated his own property. Well, it's local self-government, we're offering them now somehow when they're devastated, or over, but in a way that they can't be given to anyone. They can't be sold, they can only get the right of some kind of construction, so let's ask ourselves what if we gave them that from the beginning. It would be a lot easier for us all, especially for local self-government. Well, you were the mayor, too. You said your term of office was up. They replaced you, it just wasn't good, it wasn't good judgment. And this story that goes counter to local self-government is just unthinkable to me that it comes from you who were the leaders of local self-government and you and Mrs. SDP etc. The state is a better owner than we are on the ground. The state sends us real estate from Zagreb, so it's real estate there all the time. She's there, we just want to manage her. Let's enlarge her so something happens on her. And no, you're just under surveillance as it says here, you need to send someone to see if you did something wrong there, and then some kind of criminal procedure, so we'll do it as a strategy, page 84 writes nicely here who's under... Why is the state always a better master than local self-government? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't go into my head at all, and then we find that everything is devastated by state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41051	The answer to the line, thank you, thank you very much. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41052	I must say, thank you very much, Madam Vice President, my colleague I will fight that I am shocked. Well, you've completely turned everything I've said. I said that just as the former head of local self-government, I can confirm that my colleagues when it comes to local self-government are largely right and that the state has not given anything to local self-government at least to use has led to a situation to be devastated and ruined. However, I just don't see what part of it would be interesting to look at the phonogram after the session, in which part of my presentation you found the justification to replicate in this way. Because in replicas, we allow ourselves all sorts of things but to twist what the speaker said five minutes ago completely clear, it still goes below the level of one parliamentary representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41053	Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41054	Thank you very much. A colleague of Baranovic's first word you called out "finally", would not have been so cried out by a father waiting 20 years for his son to be born. But you're finally telling this strategy. So what? To say that we've found something that we haven't established and that we're still not establishing it. Property register or asset value. Ignorance of my own power is an unknown asset. And ignorance of its own power is a sign of weakness. And this strategy lacks numbers, it lacks value. Where there are no figures there is no truth. Because where the numbers are out there is true. And when you talk about strategy and that this strategy is actually good because it gives guidance because the strategy is, it represents guidelines, I unfortunately have to correct you strategy are not guidelines, the strategy is a concept for achieving goals. And this strategy does not even indicate clear goals, let alone concepts. That's why we can know something about how we're gonna manage something we don't know what we've got. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41055	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41056	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Maric, you don't know what it's like when I scream, it's heard to Ilica. I'm very, very, until Mark's square out, I'm very nice and silently saying "finally" and every reasonable, beginning of the process, putting... the management of state property must be welcomed with the word "final" The absence of a register, so for God's sake what we've been doing for 23 years, what we've been doing for 23 years is going on for 23 years an inventory that hasn't been completed, on the soul of all governments including this one so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I said very clearly that I do not see this strategy as the end of bad management, not the management of state property, but as a possible beginning of the end and as a assumption, as the beginning of a process in which we can discuss whether one reading, two readings, maybe something needs to be corrected, what should be incorporated into the laws that need to be based on this strategy. But this is definitely in the story of state property management one, finally one good first episode of a series of moves that must make a policy to get out of this chaos. And your impression of the content of this document, I've read it, you know, so I don't see it writing anything too bad, I see a lot of good, and it's my subjective impression and your subjective impression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41057	And Branko Bacic, here's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41058	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Baranovic, if I recall correctly, you said that in large part you supported the debate of your colleague Vinkovic, and if you did a survey on what your colleague Vinkovic was saying, then it would certainly be an important message of his that would be decentralisation and that even in the replicas still seems to me 50 times again. And you and I both know what marine good means to us living by the sea, and then it's not clear to me that you can agree with a strategy like this that says that thinking is under way to choose a body that would manage maritime well-being. The Maritime Good Law was passed during the first government of this coalition, i.e. during Ivica Racan, and I think it is in the part where it determines the management of the maritime good that significant decentralisation has been achieved. We also know that at this point, although the government is well behind on the draft Maritime Good Law, one of the most important considerations is the establishment of some agency directorate which would now manage the entire maritime good, and what I am reading this strategy and concluded because obviously the Government is not satisfied with the fact that the maritime good is managed by the port administrations, that the maritime good is managed by the counties, that the county's management of maritime goods can be left to cities, or municipalities. And here you are alone... until yesterday you were the Mayor of Sibenik, I don't think that we should continue to centralise maritime good rather than that we should right in the space of cities like Sibenik allow them to manage their maritime goods, not that Mark's square is managed by this most important resource and deny the rights of local self-government units as it says here and as the Government's intention to propose further centralisation of maritime good governance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41059	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41060	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you know very well that the Law on Maritime Good predicts that it is managed by it, or concessions are issued at that level depending on the length of the concession, so up to 20 years regional administration, its maritime goods management office, up to 32 ministries, over 32 years Croatian Parliament. I think I am well-remembered and I am one of the most likely of local officials who is the very law particularly well studied as well as all those proposals that have gone over the past few years in preparation for the adoption of a new law and I absolutely agree that when it comes to maritime well-being, local self-government units, not only regional administration units have certain powers over maritime well-being, because it is impossible to control 6830 km of coastal lines from one place. That's impossible. But also, it is necessary to single out one service and strengthen it for the management of maritime goods from the position of the state on the basis of its powers and ingenuity that absolutely one official is well, and we know that you and I, even with a few assistants in the Ministry, cannot respond to the challenge and dynamics of the jobs that come before the Resorative Ministry in the context of the implementation of the Law on the Sea Good. So in that part, I'm not in favour of absolute centralization, and I stress that we are even less like a party and I as an individual and as a parliamentary representative against any kind of availability that relates to the sale and permanent alienation of maritime goods because that is the general good that must remain as they have left us... so it must remain for future generations, to the centimeter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41061	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41062	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, my colleague Baranovic, in the part where you talk about the maritime good, agricultural land of the first category, water, forest, I would add our clean air except for this one in Slavonski Brod, would agree that it is priceless and cannot be demosted or go to any sale. But in the part where you say there's no power in reality to manifest itself in conversion and privatisation and crime to be investigated, I'm surprised that's exactly because the constitutional category is at the end of 2010 or early 2011. The HDZ government, here is the former president, has brought as a constitutional category that crime in privatisation and conversion does not become obsolete. I'm not going to repeat Mr. Agent Lesar's words, but I'm going to ask if you think you have the strength to respect that constitutional category so I can see what's going on with Pliva, HT, INA, if you've asked yourself what Mr. Lesar asked you about this privatisation because there seems to be a lot more to this property. You know well that in 2000 when the SDP came to power that they swore they'd all end up in prison, but no one ended up in jail but they just did it like this, I'd say, I'd dare say criminal privatisation. So does he really think that he has no power or that the Constitution is not respected?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41063	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41064	Thank you very much. Yeah, I don't think there's enough determination in these 23 years to do a lot of things in this society because if we had a character in politics and determination, we'd probably have a much brighter situation in society today. And yes, I am an advocate of the fact that these legal provisions that have been adopted and, yes, I believe that it is necessary to examine suspicious cases of privatisation and that those with which it is evident that the aircraft did not carry out the acts of the contract, that not all of what the buyer took possession of the companies was done, that I believe that this should be returned to zero and that all legal and legal opportunities should be used to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens because it is ultimately about their property and ultimately the future of workers who work or should work in such companies, and they have lost the opportunity to exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41065	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41066	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm not going as a colleague, Maric, to say how excited you said it, at last, but I'm going to look back on that word of yours that you said we finally have a strategy, and now that we have a strategy we find 1001 grudges in it. You also said the strategy wasn't the law, it's just a guideline. And now we have to ask ourselves what it says in that strategy, whether that strategy is good, whether it may be bad, whether it can be fatal, whether it can be against the interests of the citizens. And what does the strategy say? I'll only read three sentences written in it. The proceeds from the availability of real estate must become significant revenues of the Republic of Croatia's budget. What does that mean? So sales, sale of Croatian postal banks, Croatian insurance and a number of other companies. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose a new Law on governance and availability of state property and other regulations. The annual management plan will plan to make decisions on the management and availability of assets. The government takes over certain powers with this strategy, gets powers, and we're asking ourselves the question of who even gave the right to this strategy we're going to give the government the right to manage and dispose of in this way, this way with the properties that are owned by all the citizens of this country. And then we ask ourselves whether this strategy is good and whether we have the right and even 1001 regrets to give to it if there are certain arguments that say that there's something wrong with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41067	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41068	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleague. I believe that, basically, this strategy is good, and we believe that it is good in the Croatian People's Party club, because I stress its fundamental feature is that unless it is possible to avoid the country's most important resources in a way that is managed not to alienate and sell but to be given to use through various forms of giving for use. And who should manage state property if not the Government of the Republic of Croatia? I don't know, rent an agency, get the law firm to run? It's by itself, of course. If something is state property and is registered as such, then only the government as an exponent of the state can operate, of course, that it is the duty of the Croatian Parliament to control and monitor it in certain ways. And you said it says in the strategy that the government expects to increase revenue from these vast resources. Of course he does, so they've been embarrassingly low so far. But if you're asking me what I'd like to be if I didn't have this political nerve and this passion of doing this job in my life what I'd like to be after what I've spent 20 years at sea now I'd like to be a renter and live out of renting. Of course rents on economic grounds, quality rent, collect rent and sit somewhere on the bench and drink coffee. It would be for someone who has no challenges in themselves and who doesn't have all the energy, most optimally, most people dream of that status, so it would be good and it's quite clear that they wrote it in this strategy to raise incomes from rent, from concessions, rentals and grant rights. So what do we expect to... Is that someone? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's where you misunderstood the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41069	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41070	Dear counterpart Baranovic, I agree with that part of your debate when you asked what to do with companies that did not respect the contract, what to the companies that fired the workers, which should not have been in contracts. What about companies that only damaged the state of Croatia, or who sucked out capital? You were wondering what the state would do and that question is appropriate in this place and we should ask it. However, the question should be asked, and what about those who were to control whether the state's contracts were in place when it was selling, or the Privatisation Fund when it was selling companies, and when it was in those contracts, there were certain conditions under which the companies were being sold. So the guilt is not only on one side, the guilt is not only on those who fired, who sucked out capital, but it is also on the Croatian state that allowed contracts not to be respected. Do we have the power to audit everyone together? Well, you said 23 years ago there was no power to review the privatisation. That third January government won the parole, we'll do all those who stole it, who misprivatized it, or investigate it. But nothing was done. It turns out that here's a sentence in this place somewhere even in this area that pitted, that it would come true and who the cave was profiting, and the honest ones seemed to be the rest of the fools.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41071	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41072	Here's a esteemed colleague. You and I can agree. All the problems, i.e. a large part of the problems stemming from the fact that the laws were not respected and that there were no clear responsibilities and consequences for liability were due to the fact that in principle there were no laws. You have always had clearly prescribed responsibilities and conjectures for those to whom the law applies, but you have never had clearly prescribed conjectures for those who were to enforce the laws or ensure that what is prescribed by law is done in the right way. And I therefore agree that, in the law and in the future of the Privatisation Act, the responsibility of those who are obliged to monitor whether everything is implemented in accordance with the law and in spirit with the interest of the Republic of Croatia should be clearly prescribed. That's right. Because this is what dogs usually do, the caravans go their own way. And that's what happened to us, that's exactly what happened to us. And as far as this is concerned, I said very clearly as a parliamentary representative, and as a citizen of this country, I think it would be time to take our heads out of the sand because, besides us, things have been happening for years that are clearly explained during this debate and mentioned. Not just from me, but from others. And this is that certain privatisation contracts are not respected and that, even though they are not respected by the contract, many company owners continue to do business, and in many cases they are destroying these resources, these companies and shutting down jobs. And there are no legal obstacles to the state not protecting its rights and its interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41073	And another colleague, Ivan Shuker, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41074	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague Baranovic's sin can also be a consequence of the act and the consequences of inaction. And I mean when we talk about managing state property that unfortunately there are both sins. And we can drag them from today to, say, until the privatisation process begins. But I'd like to say something else. And what I told Mr. Pejnović on the board, so perhaps this strategy in the opening part is missing what is key, which is so-called. military non-perspective property that no government could decide on. It was decided by someone else and then could only be managed. I have to say here openly and publicly that today's deputy minister, then she was an advisor in the Office of Presidents with one task force from the Ministry of Defense did a great job first of all in detecting, footage of the situation in those 125 objects and there we can talk about the sin of inaction. But it was beyond any policy. That's one thing. The other thing is, when we're talking about property and register, do you know who's in charge of the state property book? You don't know. State's attorney's office. Neither counterpart Pejnovic nor his colleagues can do it, the State's Attorney's Office should be registered. So that's one thing. Third thing, we're planning on having a lot of delusions about some sort of terrible value. This unfortunately portfolio that he has, was formerly in the Privatisation Fund, and if it isn't true, I would ask that my colleague Pajnovic or my colleague Mimica here say it is not so, unfortunately it is worth very little. You have such visually valuable tourist facilities... sold 14, 15 times and no one wanted to buy them. Because in the sales process, unfortunately, you have a negative omen. When you sell something, it eventually has a negative value. And maybe that's something you should have said in the introduction and I guarantee that then the debate would be much better quality. Because this debate does not suffer politics, it does not suffer politics. That's why I did begin with the fact that there is a sin of act and inaction. Whose is larger, and whose smaller is, we can see nominally how much 16% of HT is, and then we can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41075	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41076	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker, in my career, I used to work with a cantar but today I'm not, I guess whose size is smaller and I agree with you that there is a sin of act and inaction. And as for the assessment of state property, only what is in the area of the city of Sibenik in the category of inspective military facilities, real estate, the value of land can be measured and certainly in dozens and probably in hundreds of millions of kunas. And we can't say that state property is something that has no value. I'm sorry if I misunderstood you. ... And the companies are here precisely I will now comment if you only thought about companies, the companies today are really not worth it because after 23 years of neglect and poor management, of course they have lost value. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41077	And we'll hear another club and then we'll take a break by morning. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Danesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41078	Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here in the debate was said state property, and the state it is we, it is citizens, that is what counterpart Vinkovic must have pointed out, and fellow Baranovic, when the debate began, then said that we who inherited the state property were the ones who inherited it. I would have fixed it a little if we hadn't inherited it, but we borrowed it from those who came behind us. And it would be fair and fair to give it back to them properly. I think it's a certain motto. I have to be honest when I saw this material and read the title I was very happy because I have 15 years of experience in cooperation with the agency, with the central office, etc. Therefore, I was happy because finally this issue is on the agenda of this House, and I appreciate regardless of the various comments that there will be a positive shift because it is here in these materials that has been established and indicated that it is necessary to build up the legal system. We know that with regard to the availability of the property, there are several different regulations. Furthermore, it is found here that centralization of ownership and governance is decentralisation in use. That's a very nice thing to say, but in practice, it's not very simple. And finally this finding I particularly like says effective management of state assets affects the development of the economy and its stability. That's absolutely correct. I have read particularly little more closely those parts relating to local self-government and the relationship between the central government and, in this case, the agency with regard to the availability of property. It is also true that 40 million square meters of quality ornaments would have been converted into building land or into these various zones. That's if I've done the math well four thousand acres, that's not a little bit. There are probably certain effects, and there are such zones where there's actually some kind of drive here and there. There are already plants that worked for a year, two days but went bankrupt. Sorry, God, that beautiful oran that stands, but we hope it will still come to life and it will be. But in this sphere, it's a far bigger problem for me in rural areas that we turn orans on one side into building land, and on the other hand I can say it in the middle where I live, in three villages there are 260 empty houses of which 90% will certainly never go back there again. It would be fortunate if by means of funds we could buy it and if we had three houses next to each other it was already one beautiful area with all the infrastructure from gas, sewers and everything else and not the orans to convert. Unfortunately, it is not in this area that construction regulations are likely to help solve the problem. I'd like to say very briefly just a few more findings here in these materials. In this chapter relating to the donation of real estate owned by the Republic, one finding or proposal for donations is made in favour of units of local and regional self-government has no further transfer of ownership for at least 15 years. I think it's a very long period to make it possible and shorten it because life carries different combinations, problems, etc. And I personally think it's too long a period. He then says "it is necessary to review the possibility of a way to determine the responsibility of mayors, mayors and municipal mayors in case their irrational treatment of donated real estate causes damage to the Republic of Croatia". I think my colleague Shuker mentioned here a little while ago, I'm still not one of the principled municipalities of a state property alienation contract or the property of a municipality I didn't sign without the consent of a state attorney. So I think that in a certain way responsibility is somehow even divided. But to get back to this problem I started with. There are also very interesting findings here for me about resolving the property relations between the Republic of Croatia and the units of local regional self-government. He says this "the grant requirements for the construction of infrastructure facilities should be met as soon as possible so that the state does not prevent the improvement of the municipal standard of citizens". This is very important and I think it impressed me most and encouraged me because often it is not so many times a problem even in regulations but in those people, not with the prime minister or ministers, etc. rather than those bureaucratic structures that resolve these demands. I must stress that because we have had a great deal and now we have problems, given that 70 % in Baranja was social property, it is now state property, and 30 private about these properties, while in Croatia the relationship is reversed. Therefore, with us no infrastructure or residential building, the social standard facility could not begin anywhere without the owner of the Republic of Croatia writing in land books. And when you look at it then it's automatically 6 months plus until you solve it and solve it. However, I must also point out that I only have the most beautiful words for staff working there because we have excellent cooperation, but it is not their fault that some procedures last for months and months. That's all I can say in the earlier period, it was decided by one commission where there were 3 or 4 ministers. And I come to Zagreb and ask when we'll get a solution? So says this committee is sitting 2, 3 times maximum 4 times a year, and it's not certain they're going to go to the first session of that material of yours. Then you can imagine when it'll come to order. Here in this efficiency there are very big problems and there is very slow going. Furthermore, I will still read this one finding that I also like very much, says "namely, at the request of the Republic of Croatia or the authorities and companies owned by the Republic of Croatia's local self-government unit, they release those bodies and companies from the remuneration for obtaining certain rights. However, in the case of units of local self-government, such rights cannot generally be exercised because of the silence of the administration and rarely initiate the extradition procedure" etc. You know what "time" means and how hard it is. Here's the moment I wanted to point out. And there was a lot of talk about decentralisation. It's not just that for me, but in many other segments of our lives, it's a little incomprehensible to say no to the county but regional centres in our case specifically why in Osijek some of these things we can't solve. I've also experienced that, at your place, with your colleagues there, so many papers, I'm saying that you can work there in the first place. He tells you it's from Dubrovnik to the White Manastir. Here, there's the papers. So then I think, so why isn't a part of it in Osijek and you have to do it because electronic communication, what we've heard here, these property legal relations with electronic communications is very difficult and almost impossible to solve. There are some other things here, I don't want to do it now, because already, and previous debaters have highlighted it. However, this moment of settlement of property relations in investment is the first step because without it you cannot work on documentation, meaning the outing of a building permit, it is a special, also a problem given the current congestion of these services. And finally, when you've solved all this, there's a public procurement procedure. And if you sum it up together for one more serious investment for a serious project, I'm not sure you can handle it in a year. And here we are attacking to create a bad investment climate, I don't know, ministers, ministries, etc. But the good part of it is in the hands of the administration to say that after all these and additions of that system in a legal sense I hope it will be more honestly more effective. And now I'm going to end up about here there's been a lot of talk about the function of the state. He's a bad master, that's what his colleagues emphasized, a bad master and die of these functions of the state. I remember a debate with us in Baranja when it came to that. They talked a lot about dying off that function and then a smart farmer asked a question if that's how you tell me if someone calculated how much it would cost to bury it. And no one could answer. Therefore, I associate that we still need to keep these state functions. Thank you very much, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41079	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna stop the debate. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we'll be up to the Club of Representatives of the First SDSS. And we'll vote at 12 o'clock. If we don't finish the debate by 12, we'll continue after the vote. Thank you very much. Goodbye! My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We continue to discuss the proposal for a management strategy and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2017. Here's my colleague Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41081	Dear Madam Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am asking for a five-minute recess, and on behalf of the arrival of agricultural producers in St. Mark's Square, where the Croatian Government, or no one from the Ministry or the Prime Minister, wanted to accept it, so I would like to say so much about it as the chairman of the Agriculture Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41082	I'm setting a break to 9.42. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41084	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like to say a few words since yesterday I was invited to receive all those people who were in Mark's square, so agricultural producers, who did not come protesting but who came to point out one irregularity, or point out what was promised to them, and at the same time it was not done. We all know together that Croatia depends on agricultural production, and that these are all people that we can classify, which are essentially the real sector, and that's something that gives us the right not to treat the real sector like that, among other things, to agricultural producers, and it's the Croatian government that should take care of it, it's exactly what it shouldn't do. Namely, the agricultural producers were in Mark's square yesterday, where they announced themselves neatly and simultaneously asked to be explained how and how the Croatian government intends to meet everything that is planned in the budget, in the financial envelope to the agricultural producers. Of course they came looking for this one peaceful way because these are the people who come from the continental part of Slavonia and Baranja and they were the ones who thought that the Croatian government and the prime minister and the minister of agriculture wanted to explain to them exactly what they didn't understand. But at the same time, they came as I don't know which way to Zagreb, and at the same time no one from the government, from the ministry, and the minister didn't want to see them. Namely, what's this about? The financial envelope provided for the incentives therefore for agricultural producers is 2 billion and 962 million kuna. So far, 2 billion and 200 million kuna have been paid and have come into doubt because Finance Minister Linic says the incentives have been paid, on the other hand, the agriculture minister says the rest will be paid by the end of June. On the other hand, in sectors, individuals received 95% of the funds, others did not receive 50% of the funds, and of course they are in a situation where they do not know how and how to continue production. These people really deserve attention because these people produce food that is so necessary to the Croatian people and it is so necessary that we do not have to import agricultural products, and this way we send a message to farmers that they simply have to close their OPGs, their businesses. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that the Croatian government does not do well to ignore in this way those people who create a better one, those people who create added value, those people who hire them. We are witnessing that this relationship to agriculture has destroyed 4,000 farms, 40,000 cows being forced to slaughter. So I ask you respected colleagues and colleagues, is this an indicator and is this a guarantee that our agricultural producer in the European Union will prosper tomorrow and that this is a guarantee of the existence of the Croatian village. Why does the minister, why does the Croatian prime minister treat the Croatian agricultural producer this way and why he does not receive these people who left their jobs yesterday to receive them for 10 minutes. They're not protesters, they're just looking for their rights, and that's also a guarantee that they get them so that tomorrow they can continue and that their agricultural economy will survive. And that's why I asked for this break because it certainly deserves attention, because if we continue to treat the Croatian peasant like this, I'm sure it will disappear, and if we do, then I'm sure we'll have far more imports of agricultural products than we have today, and that means disaster for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41085	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of SDSS, a colleague of Mile Horvat's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41086	I would like to thank Mr. Chief of State Office for the management of state property, colleagues and colleagues. I would say a few views of the SDSS Club on the State Property Management Strategy that we are discussing today. I'm sorry there's no representative of Mr. Mimica's proposal here. Obviously, if I may say so, the government sent him here to defend the strategy in order to strengthen the importance of this strategy by his authority. The strategy is a very important document for us. We think it's a basic management document for the rest of the state property. Why? Because if the specifics of the strategy are read, it will be seen that amendments to certain, i.e. the adoption and amendment of certain implementing rules will later follow. Thus, this strategy, which is likely to be adopted tomorrow, will then be adopted in some way and the basis and coverage for all later government decisions in terms of the availability of state assets. This state property is not small, although we heard yesterday and some of the more difficult that it is questionable the size of this state property I think when it comes to, I don't think that this state property should be looked at economically only through companies that are in trouble. We should view it as the availability of a vast national treasure such as water, forests, at the end, and the road. Finally there are portfolios, there are apartments, there are certain housing facilities. It's a huge state fortune whose fate is created in this strategic document. That's why we think it makes complete sense and the need for this document to be discussed in two readings. By logic, he can no longer correct himself with any amendments. So, it can only be corrected by a new proposal for another reading, and we also think that there is a reason to fix it because this strategy is not complete, it is not the format that we should be when it includes the availability of such large state values. It's quite principled and we don't think there are any concrete and strong provisions for future availability. For the SDSS, it is generally important and acceptable the first national treasure is not sold. That's the basic thing. The second thing, the form of availability, the long-term availability, we think that the concession is the most optimal form of state wealth available right now. And the third thing is that the state doesn't necessarily have to be a bad master. Of course, there are examples in EU countries where the state is very well-dominated with national wealth. So, there are elaborate mechanisms whether economically, whether marketable, whether it manages to have what it determines to be of national interest. We do not think that the strategy has sufficiently processed the directions of availability to key resources such as forests, such as water, etc. It has only made it more clear lately that it has been available to agricultural land as a major state wealth. Centralization is also noticeable. The whole process is run by the government. And it's the agency that gets huge obligations, it becomes practically through this biggest company dealer. She needs to sell nearly 6 hundred companies in time. The question is whether the agency has been capacitated and it is a question of power and influence that is accumulated through the agency by giving them such great authority. These are all some kind of principled views on this important document, and I will now try to go through that strategy and through a few concrete examples of where we think it should be complemented in some way. Just for a little while. The conversion, the privatisation of social capital, it's a lot of talk, and I won't repeat it. But I have to point out, this is about the sale of shares, the free allocation of shares in the past periods. I underline, there is a population, so there is a group of citizens who, due to certain objective, some subjective circumstances in the past period, have not had the opportunity to consume the benefits of participating in privatisation. And I don't think that in the future, given the determination of this strategy, it won't be. I'm talking about people who are in the status of returnees, who in their midst have built their entire working life into the rise of certain companies where they no longer have the right to participate in any way. This is the case for companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Croatia, which lists 23 companies with a special state interest in the majority portfolio of the state, and then it is concluded that in the future part of these companies will be transferred to the management of the state office, and part will be sold and ceased to be owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is then said that the current sale of these three large state-owned companies such as Croatia, the Croatian Post Bank and the Shipbuilding Industry 3. May. The question arises, it would be good to know which are next for sale on the list of these 23, asking one logical question, in principle reading. If they're of particular national interest, why are they being sold? Because something of particular national interest is not sold anywhere. Furthermore, housing is talked about and the decision to sell apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia in the Podunov area is quoted. Yes, that decision exists. However, the decision has not come to life today, so it has not been realised in almost one of its elements and the apartments are not being sold. It is even worse that there is an inequality of the criteria for selling these apartments, so the ministry sells at one price of the apartments, the agency sells at another price of the apartments. Of course it can't, these details can't be the subject of this strategy but I have to underline it because this is for a certain group of people's strategic interest, to buy an apartment finally after so many years under conditions as the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia bought. Here we are talking about the Law on Forests, so we find that forests and forest land are good for the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. I think that the forests should be seriously discussed, that a serious mature strategy should be made available to forests because of the future. I think it's a system that's pretty anacronous and we have to make up our mind or we're going to do it the way countries like Austria do it, like Germany or we're going to do it differently. In a way that we want to work as Austria and we have relapses of the past system, it is not good for the functioning of the Croatian Forests system. In this strategy, we do not see any guidance on how to restructure the forest. Here we also have information about apartments of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. We have something that's a finding to think about where in the ministry the audit found that the tenants didn't pay the rent of apartments within the agreed deadline. It was also found that, in certain cases, the ministries did not take measures to collect claims in a timely manner, as well as to take business space in the lease, there are no criteria, there are no prescribed lease procedures per square metre significantly different. This is the source, so this definition tells us why those affairs have occurred in recent years when it comes to the use of leases, i.e. how to use business space in state property. Land books, it's found to be an unsettled condition. And we have repeatedly mentioned that there is a very important thing in the context of the disorderly state of land books. And today there are cases that the state of Croatia is listed as the owner of private property of people who have not yet returned. So in this strategy, we expect to see a projection of the resolution of one of these injustices that the state has done according to a specific category of people. It is an interesting thing to make available to companies in the portfolio of the Republic of Croatia, so it is said companies are part of the Republic of Croatia, up to 25% will be sold within 2 years, restructured or will go out on the market with them. Then it's said that such societies are 507. I'm asking a mathematical question, how will the agency sell, restructure or place 507 companies on the Stock Exchange within 24 months? The mathematical needs of 25 such companies monthly process and plus 10 more companies from the portfolio over 25%. Isn't that a little over-ambitious task in this agency strategy that I've been saying I don't think she's been assigned to this kind of serious business? Guidelines to address inherited specific issues, return of real estate to religious communities. I note that the Serbian Orthodox Church has not been returned today. And I see no reason why this has not been done to date when there are legal frameworks and why this strategy does not say more specifically how these assets will be returned than points to a problem with larger religious communities, probably because they have also filed a number of claims for compensation taken from property. And rarely, in one application, there is a demand for more real estate compensation. So they seek as much as they have. That's no reason not to come back. There is also property of some institutions such as education, such as a non-returning businessman, which should be returned. For example, the property of the businessmen, in Zagreb are buildings in Preradović, Berislavić, Samoborska cesta, buildings and houses in Daruvar, Pakrac, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod, Osijek, Gospić, Vinkovci. Education has buildings in Zagreb Preradovice, Josip Jelačić, Kvaterniki etc. It's a huge state wealth that someone's using in an illegal way because it was supposed to be returned a long time ago. We do not see in this strategy when it will be returned but there are again reasons and explanations why it is not returned. And finally to finish, one very serious question that no one has ever talked about, which is on the 94th property and succession page. There's a very good explanation here of the genetic events around the conversion and what followed what's going to be called a succession. But we don't see a way, we don't see a strategy of the government of the Republic of Croatia, we don't see deadlines when it's going to get into a succession and how it's going to work out. It's a very serious problem. Some data suggest that the value of Croatian property, specifically in Serbia, is about $800m while the value of the property of the Republic of Serbia in Croatia is higher and is estimated at about $1 billion and $800m, according to unofficial estimates. So people are very serious things. We do not see here from this strategy how to discuss the succession, and we know that there is a commitment from the implementation of Annex G. It is therefore an international obligation. I do not prefer to open this topic now, but I am warning in this strategy we do not see how the state will solve such a serious property problem. I don't prejudge the end of the conversation or the results, but it would be good to know what the government thinks about this thing in this strategic document except what it said was a plan of action. Among other things, an interstate initiative on this issue has started, and until today we have done nothing, and that is not good because there are some international elements that worry about resolving this issue. All in all, we think this strategy has a good intention but we think there are enough reasons for this strategy to go into another reading to make it a very serious and complete document for managing the assets of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41087	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. A colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41088	Dear fellow Horvat, you asked yourself at the outset, in fact, you probably asked yourself a question, so you'd like to know what's next for sale because it says right now that the sale is on May 3rd, Croatia Insurance and the Croatian Post Bank, you're saying you should write in this document. But it says between the lines it tells you what's to be sold. This document will allow the government to sell anything that is required to be sold. After most adopt this bad, extremely bad strategy, which someone called out to yesterday, we have, as the first president when he withdrew from the balcony of the literary "We have Croatia", so now we have a strategy, the Parliament is dissipating from any influence on the sale of state property. If you are personally interested in the order of sale you must be in good relations with Mr Milanovic and the members of the government and then you will find out but we will not find out here in the Parliament, we will read in the newspaper that something has been sold. So the order of sale of Croatian state property will give rise to the interest of the powerful, those who have money, and all of them are in the service it is very well known large capital and certainly will not look at the interests of the Croatian state or Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41089	Next replica, you must contact your colleague, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41090	Comrade Horvath, I join your proposal to make a good second reading of this strategy. And as a strong argument I will state the following, in the list of companies of development importance for the Republic of Croatia are among other Croatian post office, Croatian bank and Croatian insurance. The way they are privatised is not foreseen by a special law, as is the case with this category, which is included in strategic companies. And now look at each other, who are the owners of Croatia's insurance? About 80% of the Republic of Croatia, 2.15% of Croatia's postal bank and the rest are mandatory pension funds. At the Croatian Post Bank again interesting situation, 51% of the Republic of Croatia, 20% of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and another 28% of Croatia's post office. By selling Croatian mail, only Croatian mail, the sale of that part of the stake in the Croatian Post office bank is carried out. And only when you connect ownership structures, companies of companies of companies to use the terminology of a strategy that is not intended to be privatised by a special law, do you see that the sale of a company is practically selling large or significant shares of 2, 3, 4 and 5 and directly or indirectly, and what is stated to be of strategic importance because at this point we do not have a property view of these 27 legal entities that are classified into strategic companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41091	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41092	Thank you. ... sales. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I, or our club, is therefore our principled position that we think that this state wealth should not be sold, especially Croatia's insurance, especially not the only domestic bank with domestic capital. There we can have different opinions, our attitude is such without speculation about what combinations are like in these jobs. What we think is the same thing to discuss, these jobs are repeated to give in to one agency's jurisdiction and these are big jobs. The question of whether this agency has personnel, whether physically it can sell 600 companies professionally within 3 years, do not sell and capitalize, restructure or all that together that goes and sell such 3 significant giants as you have just said. So that's something that we're having right now is a matter of discussion. If, in this debate, the promoter convinces us that there are reasonable reasons for this and that a different matter cannot be fixed but by selling this national or national wealth, we are willing to accept it, but we have not heard such arguments so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41093	Replica Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41094	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you said the strategy was principled. Well, every strategy is principled. So this is one concept, but you must admit that it is also an excellent basis for the adoption of a law on the availability of state property that will certainly and soon be passed. You were also talking about the state audit on how state property has been available so far, and I'm going to give a drastic example of what we've talked about very often, and we pointed it out when it came to the findings of the state audit. So, it's about the Ministry of Defence, which, by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 1992, won the management of 37, actually 38,000 apartments, over 3700 garages and more than 400 business spaces. So more than half of these business spaces and this moment is empty and failing. For a large number of these facilities, no lease or lease contracts have been concluded since 97. In those cases where lease or lease contracts were concluded, the audit found that, in most cases, the ministry did not take any steps to ensure that these claims from both leases and leases and charges were made. Even court proceedings were not conducted in due time, so the majority of these claims will never be charged because the debtors simply went into bankruptcy. So it's forever lost money. On the other hand, we have cases where the ministries pay huge money just to rent space for their activity. So it's good that this strategy has been adopted and it's good to talk about it like this today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41095	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41096	Of course, it's good to have this strategy, that it's brought, or that it's ahead of us and of course it's good to talk about it. We just think that there are reasons for principle and reason to talk about it again. It means that the proposer of some segments of this strategy could make it more clear. Of course, the regulation will come out of this later, and that is the problem, and what we are adopting here today is that it will be the basis and cover for the adoption of legislation. But the frames are pretty wide in some things. The finding is what it is, I was just quoting it and I gave it to think, and I don't think it's a good thing what the review here has found and that we should have talked about this much sooner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41097	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41098	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. If we know that the property is the total value of the resources available, then we know how important it is for the present and for the future of the Republic of Croatia. For the present and future of all generations of Croatians. You can't talk about a strategy without connecting it to two other terms with vision and goals. Because they're connected. The vision represents an image of the ideal future and the goals of how this vision is realized. And the strategy is a concept to achieve these goals. And in order to be able to discuss and discuss the strategy, there must be clearer goals. The objectives of each must, especially when this is important and this is the total value of the available resources of the Republic of Croatia, they must be measurable, verifiable, clear and enforceable. There is a huge value gap on the property of the Republic of Croatia. And what would be the value gap? The difference between the potential value and the current value is a huge difference between the potential value, the property of the Republic of Croatia and the present. The current crisis that has hit us for the fifth year is also affecting the weaker value, but the most impact is on how this property is managed since Croatia left alone. This document is a valuable document and has asked for remarkable and effort to make itself up. He's a sum of extremely useful information, but it's not true that nothing existed because this sum is just what existed. There's nothing in the meantime as this document was made, determined, found out or something... So this is all something that already existed was just disorganized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And insufficient for one quality strategy. But this is certainly one extremely rich, content-rich document that collects information from different sources. ... in one place but in order to be able to have a quality document made and to call it a strategy it is necessary, requires greater commitment and requires another reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we were to measure the importance of this document with time devoted to this debate, then this document almost doesn't matter at all. We talked about the law on craft for two days and about this strategy a little afternoon and a little bit in the morning with the proposer explaining only 6 minutes this most important strategic document that should be in the Republic of Croatia. In this document is on page 13 of the list of assets written but it is a list, these are possible theoretical forms of property but they are not, it is not a list of properties of the Republic of Croatia. These are all possible forms but we don't have records in which form, how much property, in which we have the value and in what state it is. There are some assets listed here that we do not have, for example, in paragraph 13. Sucession, a request for a concession from the former SFRY. There is no information about this anywhere, no one in Croatia is involved in the succession. There is no summary documentation, and the total value of the claim on the basis of the surplus of financial claims is 3 billion euros. Only one account with joint accounts that were abroad on foreign foreign exchange accounts in 2001 disappeared $568m from which it belonged to Croatia 28.49%. No one has ever raised the question of who raised the money and why the Republic of Croatia did not receive part of that money, which is a billion kuna. No one in Croatia cares about the succession as if it were not the property of the Republic of Croatia. This is referred to in paragraph 24. Money, savings stakes and gold bars. Unfortunately, Croatia has no gold bars, no gram of gold. Croatia sold out, not sold out, but sold out its gold bars, 15.5 tonnes of gold bars, in particular 15055 kg sold out, and 468 kg left Belgrade because instead of adding 28.49 to the gold we had deposited in Belgrade, we received only 23% for unknown reasons. There is no document that speaks of the sale of the most valuable assets of the Republic of Croatia, gold bars. There is no record of any of the reports having any information on that sale. Is it possible that this is happening in the Republic of Croatia, and we are talking here and about these gold bars? It's totaled $145 million, and today's worth is billions of dollars. There is one mantra in Croatia, that the state cannot master, that the state must not be an entrepreneur and that everything should be left to the market. Companies and corporations play their part and that is a very important role in every society, but never companies or corporations can replace or replace the role of the state. The moment the corporation swallows the last state-owned company, the social state exhales, and we need to keep that in mind, and we all need to know that the State Property Management Strategy shouldn't go in the direction of detachment, it's a dangerous way. And how dangerous the road is already, unfortunately, we have been convinced by conversion and privatisation, and here you have on page 17 where you have only briefly cited the results of conversion and privatisation, the value of the capital of the companies analysed has been reduced, the total number of employees has been reduced, the number of companies in which the bankruptcy process is opened, part of the companies have not achieved their development programmes. These are the results of the famous conversion and privatisation, when we add to this the biggest source of crime in Croatia and these are bankruptcy proceedings that have been conducted in the past 15 years then it is no wonder that everyone has tried to determine that the state does not know how to manage. But a famous economist, George Cooper, in his book "The Causes of Financial Crisis", has long spread a lie about an effective market, which is more faith than fact. There is no market that has total freedom of distribution, there is no market that has no monopoly, there is no market that has no oligopol. Therefore, the role of the state is to intervene, which is why the role of the state is to manage, so it must not in any case be sold out because nothing has yet been sold in Croatia, to sell out what affects the fiscal capacity of the state. And if we know that the fiscal capacity of the state stems from the strength of the national economy, and the strength of the national economy and the structure of the national economy, if banks and monetary policy alone influence the structure of the national economy, then we dare sell what we have last, and that's the share of 2-3% in the banking system. The sale of Croatia's insurance and the Croatian Post Bank is the surrender of the last line of financial sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The sale of Croatia's insurance does not sell only part of Croatia's insurance, it sells 50% of a pension fund, it sells a lot of other things where intertwined ownership relations are what you heard earlier. And what should be of national interest if it is not Croatian Post Office, if it is not Zagreb Airport, Split Airport, if it is not ACI, if it is not Jadrolinija, if it is not Croatian Railway, Croatian Post Office, Croatian Post Office. So if it's so important that the state can't have a single bank, so here's a Croatian bank owned by 5700 shareholders, it's kind of taken away from them under strange circumstances, it's in trouble, so let the state return that bank if it already cares. Why sell Croatia's postal bank when it can, here's to privatise one where there's more problems than at Postage Bank where there's no problem at all. The sale of Croatian insurance sells the most valuable properties in Croatia, selling cultural monuments. There is no city in Croatia where in the centre of the city the most valuable, the oldest building is not owned by Croatia's insurance. We sell tradition, we sell Croatian name, and that's why we're not, we don't support the sale of strategic companies, and we think the ones I listed belong to that group of strategic companies. There's so much Croatian property he doesn't even know about. It's an unrated asset on page 24. No one has ever estimated the value of telecommunications infrastructure, no one has ever estimated the value of tourist land for thousands of squares that hotel companies have been using for 20 years. In billions of euros, it is measured. What didn't go into the underlying capital, why did it never elaborate on conversion, which entered the underlying capital, and whether the companies had only the property of what they had through the conversion entered the underlying capital or that they had and what they didn't estimate in the value of the underlying capital as some do, and the oil finds weren't estimated at several billion dollars in the core capital of that company. State-owned companies and state-owned enterprises have proved ineffective. All restructurings, investments, rehabilitations in Croatia are not carried out by companies but by citizens, and state-owned companies always shift their management incompetences to users of services by increasing prices. I can't help but get the impression that maybe it's not directed in some unwanted direction. How is it possible that the same directors while there were governmental operations extremely badly, and these same directors after conversion and privatisation when others are doing very well. But of course the Croatian postal bank will also have an unfair position on the market if the state or state-owned companies themselves are at least operating with the state bank. This document is an indication that it is about the property of the Republic of Croatia about a completely disorganised system, a deserted, archaic system. And this document points to that. That's why it's good to have this document, but to make a strategy you'd have to go to another reading and it would have to be more clearly set we can't talk about strategy if there's no figures. No value has been expressed here, not by your guilt, not by the guilt of this government, because it simply doesn't exist. But we must have it in order to have the right conclusions and to know what we want from the property of the Republic of Croatia which is undervalued in the way it is managed, but also in the way it is managed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41099	Thank you. And now we're going after the replicas, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41100	Dear counterpart Marić, at first you explained what a vision and goal is, in fact, that before the strategy we should discuss vision and objectives and you said that the strategy is a concept for achieving goals. However, there are visions and goals in this document. It's read amongst the words. The objectives are as they are so far, as at the time of the HDZ Government's sale of anything that can be sold out. Remember that Jeljeljina and other statesmen of Friedman kept international corporations in power so long as he was willing to cooperate with them. After that, they disappeared from the scene of the world. Remember from South America to Asia, to all those countries that went through the doctrine of shock. It is naive to believe that this document is done because it is thought of the good of the people, to make the people better. It's true what you've established to be a mantra state is a bad master. Because of this mantra, the government wants to disenfranchise the state. Remember who also wanted to disenfranchise the state - communists. At the time of communism, it was said, but only in theory, of the disenfranchisement of the state and the rule of the people. That means Rigid Communism and Corporate Hawking. A sign of equality can be placed between them. All that is done is with a clear vision and a clear goal – leave Croatia without underwear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41101	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41102	counterpart Vuksic, if any government does not want to manage its state-owned enterprises and says it does not know how to manage it means that it does not trust the state it runs, does not trust itself, does not trust the state it runs. And neither the objectives nor the vision, nor the strategy would be unclear, nor should they be read between the ranks, and at least the state property should be approached in a way, and it seems to me that this is how it's usually been accessed in a way written on the Babylonian wall, a graphite. He says.../The speaker doesn't understand. numbered, detached and divided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41103	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41104	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You said in your presentation that every strategic document, each strategy should include financial indicators that this one does not have. But the question is, can we call this a strategy? The strategy is primarily a long-term document, and this document that we are discussing is brought to a period of only 3.5 years. So, by the end of 2017, we are already in the middle of 2013. It does not contain basic elements which must have one strategy, and this document, which is adopted for such a short period of time, should have its basis in the state budget. We've brought the State Budget for 2013, we've also brought projections of the '14 budget. And '15. A year. We can ask whether these measures mentioned in this strategy have their financial justification, their financial support in projections and in the budgets that we have made for the next period? I'm holding that they don't. I can give an example. A fundamental measure in relation to the settlement of real estate in the Republic of Croatia as one of the largest segments of state property is the harmonisation of catastra and land book. At the same time as the Government proposes to the Parliament to adopt a strategy to coordinate the cadastre and land-based book in the state budget reduces the position of the State Geodetic Authority which should allow for the harmonisation of the cadastres and land books. Therefore, all the measures prescribed for the creation of the Central Property Register, when it comes to the settlement of property-legal relations on state land, do not have their basis in budgetary positions and on that part absolutely and this strategy which is not a strategy for me but a short medium-term document is not enforceable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41105	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41106	Thank you very much. So you can't talk about a true strategy unless there's an estimate of neither the value of the current nor the effects after certain measures taken. That's why I said this is the sum of good data, valuable, useful information but it's not a document that can be called a strategy especially because it doesn't have that long-term character. However, we are witnessing that we otherwise mix up the concepts. We also talked about a long-term State Investment Strategy. So how are we going to have state investments if we have a sale of state-owned companies at the same time? How will we have a long-term management strategy for any company if, after half a year or a year, the directors, the ones the same government has set up, are replaced? So let's just remember he's been removed management at HAC, HZ, HEP, I don't know where else in many companies where he's already started to strategic investment, strategic plans. Then it changes in walking. Who does not see that, for example, only Croatia's insurance is worth 15 billion kuna, not 2 billion kuna, who does not see that ACI and such companies are of national strategic interest which can be paid back to the debt of the Republic of Croatia, who does not see that the Croatian postal bank must not be sold because of the strategic national interests of influence on the structure of the national economy then it sees nothing, but also the eyes do not see what someone's pocket does not want to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41107	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You told your colleague Maric that no one in this country is involved in the conflict. So I've interpreted that you may have an opinion that someone is dealing with property because it seems to me that, not to me, but I am convinced that in this country, the beginning of Croatia, no one was dealing with the property in general but only with the property that was in someone's interest to get rid of it the way it was solved. That's right. And we say today all the time and we say that we have to implement reforms, that we have to fire people from red tape that we have too many, and on the other hand we have a completely unsettled state of state property. So people of God’s government can either say that they do not know how to solve things or that they will not solve things. In this case which is now and which has been going through for many years it turns out that we are not going to solve something because if we wanted to solve it then very simply this bureaucratic apparatus of ours would be reorganized and reorganized, let it on the ground to create a real list of assets, the value of the property to see why huge rents are paid for certain offices while on the other hand there are empty facilities to see why there is somewhere state property and facilities throughout Croatia empty, unused in the drach where a lot of money has already been invested. It's just that we want to do it. I agree with the huge part of your exposure, you've basically made a good point and you've said it all well, but here I'm curious if in your presentation you really thought someone was dealing with state property?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41109	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41110	Thank you very much. When it comes to financial claims resulting from the succession of former SFRY assets, the same is said of the property. Financial claims are a major asset value of the Republic of Croatia. Seriously, seriously, no one deals with any kind of property in the Republic of Croatia in a professional, professional, standardised, shaped way. Because if the Ex-SfrJ Sucession Commission met only once in 15 years and never met after 2001 because when it was found out that someone had raised $568m then the representatives of Macedonia and BiH left the meeting without Croatia having led the meeting. And he never dealt with nor did there be a list of claims, nor did anything seem to charge for those claims because some gentlemen in some institution who were former JNA officers and entered uniform when teaching weapons of territorial defense to some JNA generals were involved in this business, not the demands of the SFRY and agreed to, despite the agreement signed in Vienna on 28.49% of all claims and made by the former SFRY, we take over only 23% for no reason, without any explanation. And no one has ever asked why this commission is not working and where is the list of these assets and what actions have been taken to charge for it and no one is responsible for it and no one is asking for it in this Croatia without talking about the Ljubljanska Banka where Croatia has turned it into a political issue, and the Slovenians are solely in economics and then into a political issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41111	Nikola Vuljanic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41112	You were talking about Croatian gold reserves, of course there is no more abstract notion. You said what happened to them, but maybe you should say who actually did it, who was governor of the Croatian National Bank, the best governor in the world when such things happened. Isn't that the same governor who called the abolishing of the foreign exchange clause funny, isn't that the same governor who practically frozen the kuna course at an impossible level and thus destroyed, actuated the Croatian processing industry, isn't that the same governor whose successor conducts the same policy in his own words, and now, in new suggestions, give us as quickly as possible in the euro zone, and then you're done? Why are they doing this? Why are governments scattered, all governments so far, primarily HDZ, were there most of them but also SDPs? Why are they scattered? Why do they seek to rid themselves of all that this people has? They have not left it to them. What does this people have? Two possible reasons, one that they don't know, the other that's part of one big puzzle that when a man looks better, everything fits. And frozen course and sold-out gold reserves and sold-out INA and this strategy all fits nicely in that puzzle and we'll get a picture. That's the picture I'm afraid of. I'm afraid we'll find ourselves in a situation where, say, Romania when the prime minister once told us when I was there, you know we don't have a problem with the banking system, no bank is ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41113	Thank you. Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41114	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuljanić, I don't know who sold the gold bars. Nobody knows that. How will she know when there's no trace or record of it, when there's no record, and all I know is that she sold the CNB. And which individual, who in the name of the CNB, I really don't know. It's never been about that, and there's no record of that being sold in the National Bank either. Well you've been witnesses here reports have come from the CNB we've received so many statistics irrelevant because they've been published on the Internet every day but we've never gotten the information that gold bars have been sold. Here in this I have now remembered the missing and international foreign reserves as property of the Republic of Croatia, not written in this list. But I do know that instead of the 2 tonnes and 400 that belonged to us, the foundations of the deposited gold in Belgrade were only 1996 kg, and that 13.5 tonnes deposited in Basel were sold for $114 million and the ones from Belgrade sold for 31 million and that a total of $145 instead of today's worth a billion. That's all I know. And who did this? Well, I guess someone should question that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41115	The replica of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41116	You stressed the great importance of establishing the value of the property to be decided on, that there is the current value and potential value of the same state property, and there you are completely management. Croatia's insurance and Croatia's postal bank on whose sales have already been brought to the government's session, one and the other have been assessed together in the state budget to contribute 3 billion kuna. So the government has predetermined how much... of them they'll get. The assets that Croatia has abroad through the insurance market are not considered to be worth anything at all. The German state has a 40% stake in the banking sector. They had a vision, which means the state has a large stake in its private banking sector. I said yesterday and I repeat, and this is on the trail of your approach to determining the potential value of the assets that this strategy has the greatest disadvantage in not offering categorization according to investment priorities, increasing the value of the assets as a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. And selling today without that priority isn't a state-of-the-art, it's a corporate interest. Sell when it's least worth it. And for some of them you know who's... The tobacco profile will become an insurance company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And selling gold bars. And when all countries bought gold, Croatia sold gold. Interestingly, in no annual report by the Croatian National Bank here in the Parliament, no one has said a word in the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41117	Thank you. Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41118	If something is sold at a time when the lowest price is not, then it's not an emergency, and then it's not a sale, it's a sale. And gold is sold only in the case of war and the worst monsters that society, happens in society. And we don't even know the reasons why it was sold. Of course, there's a huge value gap between potential and current values because you can estimate real estate in several ways and not just property. You can staticly, you can dynamically. But companies always have to be judged dynamically. But you also know that one of the few companies is not only in Croatia but also in Europe Croatia Insurance that has book value of property is 40% lower than market price, market value. And there's a catch. And how much it means for the future, how much it means, and here are some people who may not know but Croatia Insurance and Credits Croatian Entrepreneurs. Will tomorrow the new owner who has the monopoly lend those same ones that make him competitive? He won't. But Croatia's insurance holds and deposits nearly two billion kunas in foreign banks and not with the state bank, there are only technical reserves of 6 billion and 900 kuna, million kuna. And dynamically observed I said out of profit in five years can return the total value for which Croatia is now planning to sell insurance without saying that after the sale of 1000 people will immediately end up at the employment office and become a new social problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41119	And Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41120	Thank you. In your debate, you delivered several of your valuable judgments. Unlike this report from this strategy that doesn't actually have a judgment, it's not, it doesn't even have an ambition to have a judgment of value. And I think that, as well as the way it's written and the way it's presented and the way it happens in this House, it's actually talking about how the applicant's intensity is just to get one piece of paper and to end up talking and not actually trying to go with the strategy. So this is not a strategy this is one paper that will be called a strategy and will serve as a cover for continuing to sell state assets or giving part of the property to a concession. I think that's their whole concept. And when it comes to these valuable judgments, for example when it comes to this gold in the CNB, I mean what it was, it was, and we can talk retroactively about it now. However, what is happening today is that several tons of gold are now coming out of the Republic of Croatia as raw materials. And neither the government nor the monetary government has any ambition so that these few tons of gold take over actually process and deposit, so that they start creating these gold reserves, are ultimately those with gold that at this point has more than half the price that's being sold on the market. So it's a few tons a year that we continue as raw materials and let it come out of the Republic of Croatia practically in the category of logs. Both this year and last year and before and before. It's been happening in these, in these last few years intensely. And when you're talking about the potential and current value of the asset, I mean that notion of a potential yet more term from the physics of potential and kinetic, so there's a market value. That's my opinion we can think about what potential means, which we would like something to become but still property has its market value and I think we should focus on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41121	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41122	Thank you very much. You have covered several topics, so now I have to look back on several of the most important issues, you have talked about concessions as sources of earnings and ways of managing the property of the Republic of Croatia so far, and this is indeed the most potential source of income for the Republic of Croatia and so far has been the biggest source of corruption in Croatia. But by the way, you said that this strategy doesn't have a value of judgment that it doesn't even want, it doesn't, it doesn't show any desire. And I think there's a need for value judgments, it just imposes the need, nothing of quality can be done without value judgments. But the way we behave and treat the property of the Republic of Croatia, so here's the freshest example I'll say. A few months ago, the County Court in Zagreb ordered that 5m euros in an offshore account be returned urgently to the Republic of Croatia because it is the money of the Republic of Croatia, to this day no one knows what is with those 5m euros, nor has it returned. And the County Court has ordered and asked, when, here he says tomorrow he will be. Nobody even asks a question. About the claim to the Ljubljanska Banka. The state's attorney's office, which is only authorised and tasked with representing the Republic of Croatia, does not represent the Republic of Croatia, but is represented by some private banks. Not just past every logic and illegal. And no one intervenes. But you talked about gold bars and everything. Many institutions in the Republic of Croatia have long become a place where the truth has long been buried.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41123	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41124	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Pejnović and his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before I say anything about this strategy, I wanted to look back at the debates so far and say a few thoughts. If the problem is not solved in time, then it can usually never be solved, or when it is 15 years, the problem can no longer be solved. And as for the objectives and this strategy has objectives, but it is not about setting goals, the question is how long we want these goals to be long-term because if Croatia had long-term goals, then HZMO would have 25% of the shares of all companies that have been privatised over the last 22 years. Those goals have been deviated. So if we have 10 strategies, if we step away from the goals, then we'll have what we have, we'll save what's being saved and try to do something about it. I could do the same as you say about the financial sector, about gold levers, about shipbuilding, about my love where I dedicated a part of my life and ask you why national shipbuilding in Croatia can't survive but must be privatised, and neighbouring Italy still has state shipbuilding, a niece will or won't be placed on the market, but it has state shipbuilding and functions and manufactures $900 million per piece of passenger ships, per one water unit. And it works and it's not a country without corruption and they have the mafia and everything they have, but with them it works, not us. But I'm not going to talk about it, because the subject matter of the debate here is a proposed strategy and I'm going to try to stay within the framework of this strategy. In the opening part of the strategy, it is described in detail the unsettled and inefficient management of state assets, which has not been since yesterday, which has been dragging its problem for a long time. As a solution to such a problem, the State Office was formed as another level of administration. It is a little difficult to believe that bureaucratic or administrative ineffectiveness will be resolved by introducing another level of administration, but I do not exclude that division of work could be done because it is very difficult that one office will be able to monitor all of this which the strategy includes. A large part of state property consists of shares and shares of companies. When it comes to companies in which the state has less than 50% of the states should act as only one of the co-owners, i.e. shareholders. AUDIO, the state agency responsible for the management of these shares and shares should act as an equal participant of the capital market that would represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia and seek to achieve financial revenue for the Republic of Croatia. AUDIO should be able to manage this part of the assets in the way investment funds, pension funds and other participants in the capital market do. This implies that AUDIO should have the freedom to buy and sell shares on the stock market in which the state has less than 50% and is not declared as strategic firms. The success of management would be measured as usual in the financial industry. Simplifyingly, AUDIO should act and have powers as well as any other investment fund management company. If you haven't noticed, two days ago, the Capital Fund Assembly was held. The capital fund is owned by HZMO and managed by the Croatian Pension Investment Company, in the administrative bodies are representatives of the government and pensioners and has recorded 90 million profits for the past year without having sold out anything. So it's a successful business on the capital market. This strategy provides for the state office to give AUDIO a preliminary opinion on the acquisition, purchase of shares and business shares. The strategy also calls for a public principle in the management of state property, including a public opinion on the acquisition of shares. What does that mean in practice? AUDIO conducts a financial analysis of a particular company and sees that the current price on the stock market is very favourable and that more shares should be purchased. Any participant in the capital market, funds, brokerage houses would immediately buy such shares and post-purchase his analysis by trying to continue to raise the price. AUDIO, unlike before acquisition, should request an opinion which will be made public before purchase. All market participants will then be based on the AUDIO assessment and indications that AUDIO will buy shares to take advantage of this opportunity and buy shares immediately. When AUDIO comes to order to buy stock prices will already increase multiple times. The process described is completely contrary to the rules of profession and action in the regulated capital market and will lead to inefficient business, which in the financial industry means creating losses. Trade through the stock market requires the current decision-making process, as well as the confidentiality of the intended procedures to be effective. If the strategy is to allow AUDIO or some other state bodies to acquire shares at all, then they should be allowed to do so according to market criteria and principles. Any process passing market behaviour will inevitably result in market disturbances and ineffectiveness. In paragraph 86. The strategy is again trying to take advantage of the capital market through the formation of the Risk Capital Fund. The establishment of the Risk Capital Fund is an extremely good idea, AUDIO was founded by a Risk Capital Fund where shares and shares of companies in which the Republic of Croatia has less than 25% of ownership and which operate badly or are in difficulty. For these companies, it is impossible to find precisely because of the problems they have encountered, that is, the risks they pose to investors. The financial base is that by expanding investment in a senior firm, there is a risk reduction. For an investor, it's much more interesting to invest in a company's fund in trouble than just one. The idea is that if you invest in only one chance is great that this company fails, and if you invest in a hundred bad people, there's a chance that it won't all go to waste, but that some of them will manage to run, or turn their business. Based on this financial base, a risk capital fund would then be formed to actively raise funds from various investors on domestic and foreign markets. These assets AUDIO would be used to restructure and assist fallen firms. By raising the same companies to the ground, the fund would achieve positive financial results, thus earning a profit for the Republic of Croatia as one of the investors in the fund, but would more importantly help bring the economy back to life in a healthy and globally accepted way. Although the venture capital fund is an extremely good idea, the strategy is very undefined in this section, and there is an impression of a lack of understanding of the capital market and investment funds. For example, it is a very conflicting part of the strategy that mentions that the stock listed on the stock market and no longer operate in losses will be included in Group 83. That's impossible. Once the shares are entered into the fund, they can no longer be drawn from it and transferred somewhere else. This is a complete misunderstanding of the capital market. That's why one investor would invest, why would one investor invest in something that someone would successfully take away from him. This would directly damage investors in the venture capital fund, page 68. The same arguments refer to companies with a share of the Republic of Croatia of more than 25%. It is noted that Article 86 of the Strategy has gone in the right direction to engage in modern financial flows and markets, but it has been crucial to not know the financial business resulting from conflicting and unclear governance principles. The objective of this strategy was to resolve conflict-insecure and inefficient management of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, and this article only deepens the problem that has been trying to solve. Article 86 should be fully audited by the expert team in the field of financial and market capital in order to obtain a valid and meaningful framework in which AUDIO may later act. In order to be able to actively manage risk capital funds and other funds, the Agency must also enable free and efficient decision-making in the sale of shares both freely and efficiently. Without solving these two bases, no one can deal with fund management. The management of capital markets' assets has been working in the world for years and become clearly defined and highly quantifiable parameters by which control can be carried out and the success of management is valued without making business impossible. Such principles should be applied as means of control, not arbitrary opinions that are contrary to capital market business and make unnecessary administrations that prevent efficient and efficient business. Chapter of the Central Register of State Property ISUDIO we believe that within the governance and availability strategy, the importance of establishing the Central Register of State Property is well seen. Furthermore, we believe that the complexity of forming such a register is well seen. Although the strategy has well seen the need for a register, and the complexity of setting up the same strategy has not offered to the end of the guidelines to address these problems. Given the particularly important importance of this project, we propose that a solution be included in the strategy, in such a way as to set a deadline in which an international public tender for the discovery of an IT firm must be opened, large and high enough to offer a quality solution to this problem. We would like to add that this public tender should be led by choosing the most economically profitable offers, i.e. selecting the best and most qualitative solution offered, taking into account the speed of implementation, not just based on costs and prices of the same. So again, we're trying to fix the problem quickly. The first step would be to form a professional team to write competitions and later select the best offers. I'd still like to support this management and availability strategy. It has its shortcomings, but it is a good framework that can be upgraded and that it can, of course and more precisely set goals. The guidelines are quite well arranged in the section Mr. Maric mentioned, there are shortcomings in the succession property. Indeed, it is a very, very poor chapter. What I'd like to say in the end is that I've been listening to these days that the state is the worst master, so one claim. Another claim is that we must not, that we must keep as property, or as a pupil of our own property of the Croatian forest, water, etc. Now, look, if the state were the worst lord, I'd believe if all the companies that were privatized were successful today. I know very few survived in the privatisation of successful companies. So it simply refutes that claim that the state is the worst master. I don't think we have good governance models for state firms and often we don't know what we want in the long run. Likewise, we do not allow this other claim that we must keep the property as a pupil of our own eye which we have declared strategic. That doesn't allow us to manage those resources 50%, let alone 20 times more expensive than it is to manage one company that's on the market, and we unfortunately have that case. Also, calling give it to all of us and real estate we'll do it in local self-government I'm not too sure that these are the solutions to all possible situations. In fact, local self-government has had the opportunity to dispose of state land and therefore also solve agricultural land, it has not been dealt with exactly everywhere in the way it should be. And for God's sake, there was an initiative, thank God they didn't go any further, that the utility companies were privatizing. So no layer of our society is immune to the problems we discussed here. And I like to hear opinions like this, but we should still be a little less hearty and a little more realistic about the whole situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41125	Thank you. And now we have three replicas. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41126	I'm more of a heart mate, not a heart attack, but a heart attack and passion. At the very beginning when you started talking about shipyards you said I could but I won't. Why won't you? Now I can guess why you won't. You won't because you'd come to one awkward conclusion and then you wouldn't be able to say I'll support this and I'll vote for it. You wondered why there could be state shipbuilding in our neighbouring Republic of Italy, and in Croatia cannot? To prove that the state is a bad master. And of course a bad master needs to be disembarked. We need to get him a toy he's gonna break 'cause he's a bad kid. The cost of the shipyard was lowered for decades to pass out, and the opposite was actually to be done. It was meant to disenfranchise the bad lords, not the property, but the owner. You should've told them you couldn't manage, you got to get out of power. You said this was a good frame. What's a good frame for? For sale. Exactly what you're up against. Why is it 20 times more expensive to run in state-owned enterprises? So because the government allows, because the government doesn't react when it's 20 times more expensive management, because the government then says because you see these 20 times more expensive control let's privatize it. And then that same director manages 20 times cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41127	Replication response, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41128	Dear counterpart Vuksic really doesn't have any other motive why I shouldn't talk about shipbuilding other than getting out of the topic because the topic is strategy. But I appeal to you and to every one of us here who dares to say that the country is a bad master then let our country say is a bad master because not all states are a bad master because they can illustrate it to you and explain it to an example of Italian shipbuilding. Because I know in detail what they did in the '70s, in the '80s, so how they first specialized their shipyards, how they set up an internal organization, and they said that the money they give as a subsidy can only be given to buy new technologies. Not for the wages, not for the payment of contributions, taxes and all the losses that were created by the shipyard. So, since you asked me, know that I know almost everything about it, and I can speak very competently about it. As far as this is concerned, the strategy gives the frameworks no solution for everything, gives the frameworks if we want and if you listen to what I'm talking about, if we want to put into the market what we don't know what to do with it, but then to whoever we trust, we can't interfere with it anymore. And I think it's more right than making political decisions about the shares of a company where the state has 10% ownership and can't affect anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41129	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41130	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Hrelja you started your exhibition with the shipyard, so I will return to it a little later, but in principle it is normal that you as president of the HSU party whose membership was mostly in its working life building and creating this property that people don't know how to master, not the state, people don't know how to master. Who is this country? Well, that's us, that's the people, that's this Parliament, that's the government, that's the services that get paid in the state. And let's not talk about the state all the time now. The state knows. Who is this country? But let me get back to this part. Somehow when you said that you didn't exactly agree that the shipbuilding was privatized and sold, so there was a bit of a parallel with me I somehow felt Croatia's insurance and the Croatian Post Office, somehow I got the impression that if the shipbuilding was privatized, then why wouldn't Croatia be privatised and the HPB that are in this document and must be inside. Well, to me, I don't agree that we should set things up like that if the neighbor died of a cow, if she died to me, then she died to the neighbor. That wouldn't be good. So I think, I believe that you do not agree, that you also do not want to privatise Croatia's insurance and HPB to be sold, but that you also want it to remain owned by Croatian citizens and managed by Croats, people who therefore run the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41131	Replication response, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41132	Well esteemed colleague Hrg I really, really enjoy the morning surprise, I really didn't know that you could read thoughts or hear something that wasn't said. I never mentioned a word about the companies you mentioned and in my mind it wasn't that there was any connection between the shipbuilding and the company that you said I was connecting them in any way. According to this, HSU was never a disputed property. You can if you have people who manage well and it's good that you've drawn attention that people who make up management are both state-owned and private-owned and so if you have a good management team, if you have management models, then ownership is the least important. So we're making a name here if something's sold it's not ours anymore. No one will take anything from this country but the question is whether this company continues to operate, whether customers will be satisfied, whether they will continue to provide these same services or not. You know, I'm a participant, and one party boasted about defending the Istrian Bank, and that Istrian Bank has been an OTP bank for 12 years. It's like they defended her, but she's doing business, and I'm still saving, and I don't have any problems. So we're making a problem here where I don't think there'd be a problem. The goal is to make something work, to give the citizens a favor, to do what they're registered to do, not to create losses of property is a completely secondary thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41133	And Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41134	You've made a good point of this duality where we often find that on the one hand some say that today the state is a bad master, and tomorrow they yell that everything should remain state-owned and it really happens to one and the same people every day if they're talking to one another tomorrow. But where the problem is, you've also detected it well. Some, I think it's my opinion that the problem in people in those people that the state put in the governance structures. And what's the problem with these people? Well, the problem is I think that all the people in this country... who have no message that crime is not worth it and that the basic problem of this society is in a thieving society that no one has sanctioned. We didn't send a social message that the theft wasn't worth it. We send messages from year to year, yes, theft pays to keep political corruption alive in this society, that nothing changes. And the final court decisions on large processes confirm this and nothing happens and all signals indicate that the situation does not change that the situation is not being corrected, that relations are to be cemented regardless of what labels were on the heads of the chairmanship regardless of whether it was Parliament, Government, County, municipality, city. And as long as we as a society as a legislative or executive authority or as a representative, we don't send a message of crime is not worth it, neither is it paid in public enterprises, nor will there be no change in the state administration. If for 25 million kuna, someone sends a message that the price of it is several hours of charity, that in 5 million kuna the price of 6 months is conditional and similar messages that come today there is no shift. So stealing is worth it. Are we going to get the strength of our justice that doesn't work to finally send a different message? And if you don't sell everything best and leave it to the real owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41135	The answer to the replica of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41136	Dear fellow Djurovic, I have raised this rod of replica to tell you that I agree with you because you have given one universal opinion. So there is nothing added or taken or can only be added that we in Croatia have not taught our children to think in a way that nothing happens overnight. Besides what you said about working for everything and thinking about the future, not taking advantage of the opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41137	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41138	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Yeah, a lot's already been said. I think that if we were to sum up yesterday's debate and what was said this morning so that we could first of all say what was said from the opposition clubs could be summed up into one sentence. It would be good, it would be important for you to have this document go to another reading. So that's how I start this debate on behalf of the club. I think by this document we came or won one third of what we all want together, but there are two thirds left. And I'm sure that the government is in the interest of this being a good, comprehensive, precise and document that will abound with data but ultimately offer solutions. And what seems most important to me is why I will be quite specific in the remarks that this document that should be strategic and would be good to be strategic although it is intended only until 2017 that it does not leave open questions or rather say that where... and I will elaborate it does not literally open Pandora's box. So questions that are not fully defined, solved where there is no clear direction of course that can be the subject of manipulation. And I don't agree with my colleague, it's not a replica, but I'm using this debate in the realization that we didn't send a message that it wasn't worth stealing. I think that the state has sent a clear message in this sense that, in this sense, a clear message is being sent to the institution, and it is also visible in this document where constitutional provisions are also spoken of in one place that conversion crime does not become obsolete but also in the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts or offences. Of course, therefore, what would certainly be lacking is what would certainly be lacking for us MPs, as well as for the general public, as well as for how much, for example, such property has been taken away, which is its estimated value. Of course it's the easiest thing to criticize. All of us who have written some documents know that it is extremely difficult, especially such comprehensive documents to write, structure, determine their clear direction that it is very easy to criticize. That's why I don't think it's good for the government to even talk sometimes about that in previous years absolutely nothing has been done, that a comprehensive mess and chaos has been left behind, that's not true. I have also witnessed this as a member of the government and Prime Minister. And in the last 2.5 years of that government's mandate, we have done great work where many ministers were hired. Remember the decision to set up AUDIO but also many, many others who are indeed, I could say the background and should be the basis of this document. So it's not good to say that it's moving from zero, it's simply not true, but I also understand the proponents who may at this point feel uncomfortable because there's a series being said here but it seems mostly constructive remarks to me. So I suggest we take another reading. And I believe that in that case, if a number of constructive remarks are respected, there can indeed be one good and quality document that most in this House could vote for. Not the majority that normally decides, but most MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I said I'd be quite specific, so without it, I'd try to get rid of any politicizing. So I'm going to go quite concretely. For strategic companies and legal persons with public authority in which the State participates in the price of products and services. So these are those companies and legal entities that depend on the lives of most citizens and citizens. So there is Croatia's electricity and Croatian roads, highways etc.. What is said about this segment in the strategy? In this sense, it is absolutely unspeakable, and as I said earlier, this is exactly the example of how the strategy can open new problems and the Pandora's box. And when we bring a strategy, we need to know what's waiting for us. Both Croatian electricity and Croatian highways, roads HZ infrastructure, transmitters and connections are also one of the companies mentioned here. What the Proposer says specifically, I will read in my proposal for a strategy. So, the section privatization restructuring. The document says, therefore, no privatisation is foreseen for these companies unless prescribed by law. So it is clear that despite the strategy that we are going to make here, any government and any other government after this can make a decision on a law of course on privatisation. This is a classic creation of legal uncertainty. So first of all, first of all. Citizens and citizens, we all don't really know what will ultimately be with these companies, I repeat, among them is Croatia's electricity industry and we have witnessed electricity collection. Although Croatia's electricity industry ended in 2011 with a profit if I remember more than 100 million kuna well. Therefore, it is clear from this that the proposer actually comforts us when he says that privatisation is not predicted but then puts but then places a decimal and says except when it is prescribed by law. The laws are passed by most in the Croatian Parliament, each majority, any majority. I say there'll be another majority after this. Therefore, it is possible, by law, that all of what is rightfully listed in this strategy is to be privatised, therefore, to be sold. What consequences can be for the citizens, I don't think they should be specifically elaborated. And then here's the talk of running for presidents and board members and management of companies. And it is said that the Supervisory Committees are being decided by the government, on a proposal from the restoring ministry. But proposals in the administrations are made by the Government on the basis of a public tender. And then comes the parentheses where you say and/or the proposals of the personnel agencies. So whether it's through the contest or still, then eventually the government will do it. It's not just that, so these are examples of extreme indetermination. And what might be called hip-opening. So, I speak extremely well-intentioned and finally with some experience that I have. I would like to warn you otherwise about the proposals set out in this strategy on how to choose the supervisory boards and the administration of public companies. So two models are predicted here, but essentially one is that it is the government, or the resolutional ministries. And I warn of the European Commission's report and the report by experts from the European Commission dealing with corruption and crime problems, which have on several occasions warned that it is not good that this government has given up the model of public tenders both for supervisory committees and for public business administrations. So those companies that decide largely and how we will live. Trade companies of development importance in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority share. I'll quote a sentence, so there's... Jadrolinije, Croatian Post Office, Croatian Bank, Croatian Insurance, Croatian Post Office Bank mentioned so. It is said that these companies are expected to invest on average in investments, research and development. It continues to be said that these companies with their production potential must contribute to the stability in the development of certain areas, countries and regions and beyond, and their profit, it says here, will be an important country's income, and their privatisation and restructuring will continue here. This very clearly and precisely here writes, therefore privatisation, predicts their restructuring, privatisation or sale, exit to the market to identify. So this, in my opinion, is at least in dissonance, and that's also something that we think needs to be further clarified. If it's privatisation, if it's a sale then of course it's possible that the state is expecting revenue. Commercial companies whose shares are listed on a regulated capital market in which the Republic of Croatia has a total ownership of less than 50%. It's also very vaguely said here, so it's INA, it's Podravka, but it's Luka Plotche, ladies and gentlemen. We have foreseen in many documents of course, and of course in many strategies before this, I think that one strategy must always rely on others and that nothing begins with the arrival of one government as nothing ends with the departure of another government or the summoning of the Parliament, so I think it is logical, especially as a member of the European Union as a strategic place. So here it's said that it's possible to sell further, but also possibly buy from thirds. So there are several open options left everywhere, and I think the strategy and I'm sure it must be very clear, very precise and for every commercial society when we talk about trading societies we must clearly when we raise a hand for or against knowing what his destiny is, and then through that and what the fate of our lives is. As far as former military properties are concerned, a big job has been done in recent years and I believe this strategy follows. I only suggest that attention be paid to the proposals of the Association of 100% invalids from a few years ago, the HRVIs who sought for the facilities in Krvavice and started some projects and talks about it, I would like this government to continue to do so, so to arrange the facility in Krvavice as an object in which wartime disabled people will rest, rest and heal. Since we are members of the NATO Alliance, it can, of course, be an object that will be used much wider. And finally about the donation of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. I think it's good, I said something yesterday, that it's good that this strategy foresees a reduction in the number of donations to the property units of local administration and self-government because the past shows that despite the great number of donations many unfortunately have not been used. There are other forms in which it can be granted to units of local administration and self-government and I believe that, if there is another observation, it is more like this at the level of the file, but it is actually not because I have seen that through several structurings is always where it is said about existing forms of real estate and about residential properties where we mention the building in which we are the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where the buildings of courts are mentioned and so on, are not mentioned anywhere in the office of the president, therefore in Pantovacak. So I wonder if it's real estate that also enters the category of existing real estate, resident property. If the government, parliament and courts are mentioned, then it seems logical to mention the president's office. Here, Mr. Representative, these were concrete remarks with a truly true desire to make this a strategic document and send it to another reading so that we could once again conduct a constructive and I believe a successful debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41139	All those who suggest a second reading follow the Rules of Procedure. Replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41140	When it comes to sending a message, yes, that's where you refer to what you did. Yes, you did send a certain message and that message had a certain echo, but she had one very limited actually embraced, not by your guilt, but after that, I think the time and... that covers that message further shows actually that dogs are barking, caravans passing through and that one collateral victim, not the victim, but the culprit ended up ending up. Nevertheless, the issue of our judiciary remains, however, that does not really find a way to effectively, quickly, and in quality, really process what it processes. And we all like, I think that I share the perception of most citizens, that we all actually feel that either the repressive apparatus or that the judicial apparatus in total, justice should still be swift, is not just enough that justice is attainable because the damage that occurs with slow justice is sometimes greater than that of the injustice caused by the guilty who is being prosecuted. Therefore, if that justice is not and is not swift and it is not effective and it does not send a clear message then, in fact, that justice ultimately turns out to be an injustice, and regardless of which case you refer and which is your credit, I think that as a society, we do not send the right message that we must once really put work at the heart of this society and put honesty as a basic category, the way both politics and those that policy sets out should behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41141	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41142	I agree with you completely, so today very little is said when we talk about political, of course, environment very little even talks about fighting corruption and against crime. And if that's the example of what I said a few days ago, we saw in the local elections that recently ended up among the candidates being persons against whom investigations were being conducted. So, what's known, they have judgments even, but they're also persons under investigation. So it was, of course, political decisions to make it so, so it's certainly in favor of your claim, but I don't think we should get tired of that fight and be afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41143	Vice President Milorad Batnic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41144	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, I answered yours, I realized perhaps a dilemma of privatisation no, but by law yes. So what's the strategy? The strategy is that I have one frame, one attitude, one thinking, but every strategy as well as any document should be put in the context of time and space. I don't see that anything controversial unless it says privatisation, unless it's determined by law, and that's exactly the point. This is the essence of precisely why every law comes into this House and the majority of parliament will decide whether to privatise something by law or not. So, I don't see anything controversial here. From what I understand, you have this particular dilemma. You've also shown a discrepancy. So we need to understand the essence of what the strategy is like as a document. It does not have the weight of the law, thus giving the possibility, is given an alternative in the context of time and space when something is happening. That's my opinion. Furthermore, you said, you also touched a part of it, perhaps a negative experience as regards donations to local self-government units. Yes, from our own experience as mayor and I believe the mass of colleagues sitting here or sitting in this House we witnessed negative trends, negative procedures. So the donations I believe went in good faith and intent, but they didn't get certain results. And I also don't doubt that the government that has the Parliament's trust to decide on certain matters is doing both dynamism and timely decision-making and decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41145	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41146	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Vice President, I think what I was talking about is very, very important, that it is crucial, not because I talked about it, but because my colleagues spoke about it before me, mostly from the opposition. In fact, if we have a strategy, the strategy is a document that is actually the largest framework within which laws are passed, not the other way around. And if the strategy says privatisation for a public enterprise, privatisation doesn't then there has to be a point. And it can't be privatisation no, but if it's passed by law. Of course, the laws come to the Croatian Parliament, the laws are proposed by the Croatian government, but the laws are mainly decided by the majority of those who run the state at that time. And the strategy must be something we'll all agree on. The strategy must be something, so I interpret it, so a strategic document that speaks of strategic, in particular, public enterprises. And if the strategy says that some public companies won't privatise then they won't privatise, then no law can and cannot change it. And this is how a strategy like this opens up that possibility. So I said ultimately legal uncertainty and it's very important not only for us but also for potential investors. So who will invest in Croatia if they don't actually know what the strategy determines for the next three years. So, it must know exactly that it does not occur to me that whenever I think about the privatisation of HEP, some large investor will never, because it will not be privatised by Croatia, it will not be forests, it will not be water, etc. So in that sense, I think that what it says must be unequivocal and must not be subject to any legal or political interpretations. It has to write a clear and precise privatisation yes or privatisation no.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41147	Next replica, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41148	My colleague Kosor, you warned in your debate that there was a discrepancies in the strategy because the strategy said that the state would expect a profit from the sale of certain companies, while also saying that companies would be sold or restructured. So there's no discrepancy. The fact is that the state of some company or some stakes in these companies will sell because they do not represent a national priority, a national interest. And from that sale, certain revenues will be realised with that these revenues will be one-off. However, the state will also restructure some companies, with some already doing so because these companies are not doing well, because they are doing business irrationally and because they are dealing with losses. After restructuring, these companies are expected to do positive business and the profit they will gain, so the state should contribute to the state's natural state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41149	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. What you mentioned to my colleagues, Jelash, I was talking about a very specific group of companies. Therefore, those mentioned in the strategy are companies of development importance in which Croatia has a majority share. So, the developmental meaning, and here it is said that these societies with their products, I will read again, have to contribute to the production potential to the stability and development of certain parts of the country and region. And their profits will be an important revenue from the state. Here, as it's written, I interpret it as something permanent. And if the state sells it then it won't be permanent no state income will be permanent if it sells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41151	We're moving on to an individual debate. First up, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41152	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So in order to break some of the illusions that we often cultivate ourselves, so we believe that what we do is all the way it says white on black I will mention, I have mentioned before when Boris Jelicin disbanded Parliament in the '90s and when the Constitutional Court decided that it was a constitutional matter then Jelicin disbanded the Constitutional Court. And what happened? The Democratic West followed it with applause even though civil liberties were abolished, although it was actually a classic coup and even a bloody coup, you remember with tanks, the neoliberal West said that the more important freedom of the market than human freedoms. And here is the most important market, and here is more important what needs to be sold than what is written in papers and this illusion that someone will defend the rights of the people, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that state property, or the property of the citizens, I think it is illusory to expect. The governance and availability strategy of state assets is late. She is late, in fact, maybe if it hadn't been for DORH reports to the Croatian Labourers that she might not have brought herself. Why is this strategy being adopted? So, after a year and a half, after the past government had already adopted a strategy and had not adopted a strategy then it was expected that when this government begins, when it gets a mandate, and when it forms out immediately with the State Property Management Strategy because we all said it was a very important component of state. Because he's no longer in violation. A process that should not have started was launched because the law stipulates that there should be no sale before the strategy is adopted in the Assembly. The government has begun to sell out state property, three companies, which is also in this document where it is admitted that the sale is under way, in fact the process of selling. One of the most controversial issues of this strategy is actually to admit that we don't know what we have, but we're going to manage the word of honor perfectly what we don't know. And not only do we not know what we have, we don't know how much we have, we don't know what we have, we don't know what it's worth. And then it's said that there's currently no activity to determine how much it's worth. How can the S of strategy also be spoken if one of the largest segments, and this is social property, is bananad like this? The whole time, there's a thesis going on, someone said from a fellow mantra, the state is a bad master which, of course, is not true. Governmental property, or ministers, or people. If you mismanage yourself with state property, that means that they're bad governments, that they're bad ministers, that they're the bad bosses of these state-owned companies, the head of agencies. One question that was hardly mentioned in the debates, I don't remember yesterday and today, which is that this document should be one of the most important anti-corruption documents. If you remember, and even there are colleagues who have been in the Croatian Parliament since the first day, it all started, Croatia has started rolling downhill just by converting and privatizing, by robbing, in fact by robbing privatisation not by converting. How is the power now being exercised, this Assembly will probably not suspect that the majority will make a decision regardless of what the opposition said because the majority before and the majority before, and the majority from 2000 until the end of 2003, that they will decide to transfer all privatisation powers to the Croatian government. It's that anti-corruption act. The parliament will no longer decide but will decide the government. The smaller the number of people decide that the better. That's how only Jelicin decided in Russia. Earlier, my colleague Maric appeared to me, he said that the last line of defence sovereignty was just defence, so he did not sell Croatian insurance, HPB and those 27 companies that were mentioned here and many others. Strategic companies are those companies that make food. If this is the last line of defense of sovereignty, then the full incompetence of the Government is either treason or incompetence. It means the government is not in the interest of protecting the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. If we sell out all strategic companies, Croatia will only have a name, coat of arms, an anthem and a flag and what no one will buy. Which goes beyond selling and what is said not to be sold, what Mrs. Kosor said earlier, but there's a comma there and said but unless otherwise decided. It's probably the ones who served older men like me who served in the JNA if they didn't order otherwise. So everything is made possible by this strategy and we should now believe from this place as we were told for 23 years believe it is all in your interest and interest of the Croatian people. And what is this Croatian people doing? There's a Swedish table called containers, digging through containers, 400 thousand people are unemployed and we're according to state property, with some HDZ colleagues all the time saying that nothing's worth it, state property almost nothing. It'll turn out that nothing is worth anything or land or all those buildings. One of the mayors seems to me to be the mayor of Sibenik's former said that the property that has been characterized that nothing is worth hundreds of millions of kuna in Sibenik. And what's it really worth? Is it written anywhere? It doesn't say anything. Why doesn't it say so? Because it's said that it won't even be estimated what it's worth. At this point, they are not evaluated but it is not even said until when should it be estimated, until when will we finally publish the property register and until when will we end this register and the value of that property be put in place? In one of his discussions, Nietzsche said the state was a lie. All the time when a country with a large D is spoken and the state and party are often given a sign of equality among themselves, it is necessary to read these are people who manage the state and state property. They leveled themselves with the state, which is a real lie. Not for this move that will take place in the Croatian Parliament, the government will be responsible but will be responsible for all those who raise their hands for this strategy, which will allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide in the immediate round that what should not be sold out will be sold out. One of his colleagues earlier said that most of them were right, most of them were not entitled and there is no record of that famous 21-sale sale of anything that could be sold out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41153	Replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41154	Thank you. You once again repeated that strange mantra that writes here in the strategy that the state is a bad master. The government is therefore run by the government, so the government claims to be a bad master. And in that same document, he says, give us the authority to sell everything we think we need to sell and what we don't think today, but we'll think tomorrow. We're very good merchants. Well, now if someone's a bad master, I can't believe it if they say he's a bad master to himself. I can't believe he's a good merchant for God's sake. What is this strategy for? It seems to me that it serves the 1st emergency cover of the holes to survive until the next election and the 2nd execution of the neoliberal orders of those who govern this government and those who govern this government. Neoliberal orders of large, domestic and foreign capital. Now an opportunity has been given to get hold of what they have not been able to reach. That it thus confirms the fact that it is a strategy without numbers as a colleague said yesterday the only number is worse. If there's no numbers in the document, everything else is a fairy tale of people, stories, promises and beliefs. Government can be trusted. I personally have too many years to believe words like that. I can believe the numbers, I can believe the facts, but I definitely can't believe the government that has already shown that it intends to do anything else than what it declares in its program.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41155	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41156	A fellow Vuljanić that, it is a neoliberal mantra that is to be sold out at any price, dissipate the state, not give it instruments that you could really manage. What will the state do when it's all sold out? Pick up the taxes. What tax? As many as those who in reality rule behind the scenes will determine. The fate of the states that have all sold out tells us that this is a dangerous act and that we must intend to do it. But a government that has not announced that it will sell everything, people who have sworn to social democracy today are doing exactly the opposite. They're working in favor of what they were declaring until yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41157	Vice President Batinic Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41158	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, the Parliament is also the place for political debates and discussions I expected as the individual debate is that there will be some constructive proposals on this strategy. But you've practically been talking about illusions for over 8 minutes, banalizing social property, whether the government will make decisions, or whether the majority in the parliament will make decisions. I don't know, we are, but the democratic structure is in Croatia. And you're kind of equating it with procedures... In the '90s, it's definitely impossible to agree with this attitude. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Protection of sovereignty, sale, means one word you show mistrust in democracy, in the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Well, that doesn't surprise me. Just like I did before after Mrs. Kosor responded to the replica, we need to understand what is the essence of a document called the strategy. It can be a rope, it can be wider, it can cover a bigger, smaller area. However, in order for this strategy to have a content that may be, which we all expect, and which we all may have in some way expected, it is a document other than guidelines which says that a list of state assets is also visible, which unfortunately does not exist. And it will be. You also have to understand a concrete example of why I'm saying it. Namely, military facilities, the vast majority of military facilities when you look at the grant books, in the cataster, they're forests, they're agricultural areas, so there's no buildings. So the very procedure for solving property relations or proving it all goes on together. However, this does not mean that this is a commendable document that everyone should support, the more all decisions will come, the more they will come to this House. There's no need to be afraid. And I say let us not put our trust in the democracy and constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41159	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is our honor to welcome the delegation of the interparliamentary group of friendships between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Croatia who are staying on a working visit to the Republic of Croatia. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41160	Here, I join the greeting and these are the people up there who have more state property than the Republic of Croatia. And they did not fail, and they will not fail. These are sophisticated colleagues of Batinić tanks, these are sophisticated. So we know that today, countries are said to be enslaved without war. The neoliberal capitalism once made worse than the tanks did. So you said you'd have to know what democracy is, so do you know what democracy is? And you would forbid me to think and say what I think. And you do that when you're chairman every time. The personal impatience that speaks enough of you raises you to the level of this assembly. But it speaks of you not of me. First of all, you said everyone should support it, we can't support it because not everyone is irresponsible to support what they can't support. Because you can't support a sale. This is a document that will allow for sale. Nothing else. That's all I'm saying and there's no other way to talk about this document because it's just that a thousand things are good in it if there's one and that's the decimal, but that document is a coward's egg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41161	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41162	Here's Mr. Vuksic, I, too, must admit, as I told Mr. Maric that he had delivered his judgments, I was also listening to you really got the impression that there was no really value judgments. Especially with regard to the concept of State property and to the strategic commitment to its use. But I'm saying maybe I didn't listen well enough. There's one thing I'd like to mention, it's interesting someone's private property, it's private property on its particle just up to some depth from what, 70 cm or a meter or a meter below and it's owned by the Republic of Croatia all the way to the center of planet Earth. Why am I saying that? I am speaking because of what is happening, these future sites and oil and gas and the rest is actually Croatian citizens being actually, the Republic of Croatia is taking over everything that is on their land and they in no way own their land or what is underneath it. And we're one, we have a very interesting and not very common practice that you in your house and on your particle belong to something just to a certain depth and not too deep. And I'm saying, after those 70cm or meters until the middle of the country, the Republic of Croatia decided it was hers. Interesting at all who we have a sense of ownership. And on the other hand, it is interesting that of the total municipalities, cities, counties and Croats in this country and the country the only one who is rich today is the Republic of Croatia because everything has become state. And military and municipal and city and private and... So everything becomes state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are actually establishing ownership relations in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41163	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41164	Dear colleague Djurovic, very briefly, since we hear from each other very badly, I don't hear you very well. I agree with you and my colleague Vuljanić probably referred to you when he thought that the only numbers that were on this document were dates. And what you've said is an interesting observation, which is that it's all state-of-the-art under 70cm or 70mm, so probably the state intends to sell what's underneath us. It's the next phase.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41165	My colleagues and colleagues, please sit on the bench, don't talk around. It's time to discuss Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41166	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, the management of state assets and the availability of state assets is practically one of the key elements of the reform of the state sector and of quality management, i.e. through the availability of state assets clearly that enables the processing of the entire state property, making it possible and disbursing the state budget, new jobs are being opened and these assets are becoming active and clearly contributing to the development of the state. This document, which the Government has referred to in the parliamentary procedure, is based on the Law on State Property Management and, as the law itself states in Article 9, this strategy is indeed being adopted for a period of 4 years, and therefore more can be talked about a medium-term document than a long-term document, the more the Government has already been obliged to do so than this strategy that it was intended to refer to the Parliament before, to prepare a governmental property management plan that would practically specify how and how to implement this strategy. When the Government had not done so before, and practically still remains a little more than two years until the end of the term of office, then it was right to expect that, in addition to these principled measures contained in this strategy, it will contain financial indicators as well as how and how this measure can be realised because if this strategy does not have its basis in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, in the projections of the budget for 2014 and 2015 and it is not, we are witnesses because there is no such thing in the strategy, then it is not clear to me that the Government has the intention of such comprehensive measures, which are primarily on the basis of how it intends to specify them. What this strategy reads, and what has already been said during yesterday's and today's debate, sees here an overwhelming desire by the government to continue centralising state property management in the Republic of Croatia. And I can but for this there is no time to show on several examples where the Government is trying to open up space for itself to amend the legal solutions of property which it has now left to the units of the regional and regional self-government on the one hand, and to the units of local self-government, to individual directorates, agencies and administrations at state level. For example, this is particularly read in the section relating to one of the most important resources, the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia, it is a maritime good. I am also surprised that the Government in this material, in this document when it lists real estate, when it shows in 25 items the total state property and then seeks to show the measures to improve this availability and management of state property, did not mention certain areas of vital importance for the Republic of Croatia. I do not understand why, for example, in this document, we have not at any time shown ourselves about those areas of the Republic of Croatia that we can call disputed areas and for which the border between the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries has not yet been defined. In the name of the HDZ club, Mr. Maric spoke about the problem of a succession that is not mentioned here, but I would then go a step further and I would mention how and how the Government intends to resolve the issue of the Bay of Maloston, the great and small ska, the punta, the peninsula of Klek. What about the area located south of the peninsula of Prevlaka, which was provisionally established by the border between the Republic of Croatia and then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and today Montenegro. What about the space of St. Gera, what about the space on the left bank of the Danube? So whether there is even a government or whether the government is considering what it will do in the next period, and it is not long, that is to say 3.3.5 years, how long this strategy will be in place, whether the Government has the intention to deal with these important issues of state property that is currently not in a function that it manages or is not managed by anyone else or at all. In doing so, I forgot clearly the space between the two Kostanicas on the Uni River, which is also not yet being resolved since the border agreement with BiH has not been ratified. This document, as we have heard, can also be interpreted as quality material in which the property of the Republic of Croatia is indeed listed, but it lacks what is important concrete measures how and how we will deal with this property and so it would be good if the Government had already started with this document to show the Parliament and the annual management plan to see what these measures will do next year for the implementation of this strategy. I said it in my replica yesterday, and now I'm going to say it again. The document proposed by the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not even in line with plan 21 of the Kukuriku coalition which won the 2011 parliamentary elections. What's this about? There was a part of the programme that discussed state property management that said that the government would not sell, privatise companies and assets that are of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia. The segment is also particularly about companies participating in public transport in the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, I am surprised that, on the one hand, under point 8.2 of this strategy, the Government finds that the strategic company and the legal person with the public authority for which it says it does not foresee privatisation unless it is prescribed by law. I really don't understand such a formulation and I don't understand that the strategy can write at all if it doesn't work out differently. The strategy must reflect the government's position and the government should have said whether to privatise or not. But back to what I was about to say. So, I don't see what that would be because, for example, passenger transport in the Croatian Railways would be a strategic trade society, and at the same time it's not Jadrolinija. I do not see what the criteria are and what the principles led the government that a trade society within the Croatian Railways dealing with passenger transport is a strategic society, and Jadrolinija is not. It is also not another transport company within the Croatian Railways Holding HZ Cargo. So it is not clear to me at all, or what is more and more important and strategically viewed for the Republic of Croatia more important HZ Cargo, for example, than the Croatian Post Office. It is also not clear to me how the government has even sent such a document to the Croatian Parliament where there is so much contradiction in that section regarding transport. And one more thing I also want to point out that I cannot accept that the government does not respect its own laws that this strategy intends to do. What's this about? Therefore, this Parliament has passed a Law on dealing with illegally built buildings where all Croatian citizens who owned illegal buildings have set a deadline from 30 June until they have to apply for the legalisation of their facilities. And on that already Madam Minister, the government has warned citizens of the deadline for days. And you here are already claiming in advance that Croatian citizens must do so, but it will not be done by the government or agency because you say that the agency is neither teamed at this time nor has enough resources to apply for legalisation of illegal objects owned by the Republic of Croatia. What kind of message is sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it sets out to its citizens the obligation, which, by the way, has been made clear by this Assembly by the adoption of this law, and is threatened to them if they fail to comply with this requirement that their facilities will be destroyed, and that the same Government, by means of this document here in the Croatian Parliament, is now claiming that it will not comply with this legal provision because it is not teamed up on the one hand and that there is insufficient financial resources on the other hand to meet the request and to submit a request for the legalisation of its objects. I believe it is outrageous that such a document can be sent to the Croatian Parliament at all. There have already been words from the Croatian Democratic Community club. The least we can do with this document is to refer it to another reading that the Government, to return this document to another reading because there are so many remarks justified that indeed this document cannot be adopted by this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41167	Thank you. We'll hear the replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you have said that it seems to you that this strategy is in fact a legal form of trying to take away what the previous governments have given to use and manage local self-government from real estate. I'll say you're partly on track, but you don't need this strategy either because it's already done intensively. So we have heard many times today in the debate on this strategy to mention local self-government and real estate allocations to local self-government. At this point, apartments with residents in the state in certain units of local self-government are being intensively copied without local self-government being able to say anything about it. So the property goes back to the state that the state had previously given to the city for management and the tenants are inside with protected household rights, not to say that the property allocated to the local self-government has always had its estimate of the value of the Tax Administration and that it was known what local self-government gets, which is the value and for what purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41169	The replica matches Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41170	That's right, colleague Hrg. In fact, I didn't primarily think about real estate when I was talking about the government planning this strategy to further centralise business and governance in the Republic of Croatia. I primarily thought about the jobs that led to the existing and applicable laws led to certain decentralisation, but the government, through a proposal for this strategy, intends to return these jobs to the state level. This is primarily evident in the fact that the Government is considering this strategy to centralise the management of maritime goods that is now brought down at the level of the county, cities and municipalities, and apparently the government would like to take over from one place this most valuable natural resource in the Republic of Croatia. Another example that the Government intends to centralise certain tasks is the proposed Nature Protection Act, where the Government intends to abolish certain public institutions established solely for the purpose of nature protection, intended to form a single agency or perhaps two agencies that would then manage here from Zagreb, from Mark's Square, for example the Mljet National Park or Kornati National Parks or numerous nature parks or numerous national parks in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this strategy allows the Government to make the laws it has already prepared or which are in preparation, which will mark the strong centralisation of the Republic of Croatia practically be the basis for their adoption. And in this I do not think that the Government must finally give up this strong desire to manage everything in this Croatia and that those matters belonging to the local self-government are taking over again, which is practically contrary to the European Charter, and it seems to me with the reflections of Croatian citizens that local self-government and county individuals can best manage the areas where they are located.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41171	We've got two more applicants to discuss, but we'll hold that debate after the vote. We'll continue the debate now, the break is over. I'm asking representatives who don't care if they don't interfere with the counsel. Please, MPs, please allow us to discuss this. It is up to Marijan Skvarić in an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41173	Thank you, Mr. Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, as mayor, I must really commend and indeed complete what we can finally discuss today on the proposal for a governance strategy and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. However, what is defined, so what is the strategy is nevertheless the part, the set of guidelines that define which direction we should go, how we should do something and, of course, what are the resources to define it together as a strategy. And the strategy is basically one basis for law-making. It's that strategy doesn't commit, but it defines one direction. What we have welcomed after 23 years and indeed to define that one country is primarily a population, i.e. People, but they also make up her territory, or her property. And, of course, by law, we define and harmonize one of these systolic activities between one and the other. When we define this strategy, it can be said that it has gone quite ambitious in a way, because this defines the period of this strategy from 2013 to 2017. We've only got four years. And when we analyze what we have, what we need to solve, then the question is whether or not we're gonna make it, but we have to take the longest trip of our lives with the first step. This is one of the most important steps in my opinion. First of all, if we define what we have that in this existing governance model is normally decentralised through a dozen legal and sublegal acts. Too much. The absence of a single central register, databases are unsettled, management coordination is difficult. Because of lack of systematic access, complete legal solutions are not defined other things. At the time of conversion and privatisation, not enough attention was paid to all forms of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. In practice, too, the thesis has always been made that it is a bad master of the state, and thus it has encouraged the sale of assets. And what did we get as a consequence? Well, first of all, difficult to conduct economic policy, lost benefits due to insufficient and irrational use of property. In addition, the problems of deciding on the restructuring processes of companies and, of course, the overall negative effects on the overall investment climate and the attraction of foreign investment arise. And then what do we even want to achieve? Well, first of all, we want the integrated governance model to ensure that property owned by the Republic of Croatia is at the same time in service and economic development and particularly to protect long-term national interest. In that part, I really must say, to protect the interests of local self-government, because local self-government, municipalities and cities are the cornerstones of all the foundations of our society's development. And in this area as mayor, I must really say the emphasis that we must also have the resolution of property relations because we are almost entering the EU this year less than 20 days. EU funds, cohesion structural funds, are opening up to us. It's the best form of decentralisation. We at local self-government can use these resources, these resources, but under the influence and condition that we are property owners. If we're not property owners, then we really can't apply and use those funds in that part. And it is my request that, indeed, within your activities, your organisations help local self-government to address that part of the activity as a matter of priority at the request and according to these projects. We in the city have to build kindergartens, we have to build schools, we have to build halls, we have to build other social infrastructure, but we can also build municipal infrastructure, and we can't do all this without ownership. There are many objects that have not been used by military facilities for 20 years, from social facilities in previous properties. The demands have been made. It's been working out for years what we heard here in this debate. We need to speed it up to get rid of that structure. We have the funds at our disposal, and we know how to do it. We just need more organizational and get to that property. Of course, this property can be obtained by giving, and I think it is one of the best forms because it is the most easy way to obtain funds. We know the donation is problematic because there's this procedure that makes the part very complicated. For example, any donation of real estate, land must primarily go through the opinions of all the ministries in the process, and there are always 4 to 5 Ministries. Surely the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship, crafts are basic ministries and all other ministries. And after that, they always make certain demands that it's not good, that it has to be complemented, and it takes time. And at the end of all, the State's Attorney's Office must give its own right to sign up for real estate, and most often you have 4 to 5 returns to some part of the supplement. One system needs to be done, a procedure that everyone will unequivocally know what and how to define it. Of course, if this problem can be solved by concessions, it can also be built and it is one form that can be defined later through funds. We did not include a public private partnership where local self-governments give land, give facilities, and in this part with a partner from the private sector there can also be very good results. This has been mystified that the public private partnership is wrong, but when we have two examples in Croatia of one building of the Arena Hall, and the other is in Varazdin County building over 30 halls, primary and secondary schools. This should certainly be an emphasis in that part to speed up the procedure and we can start an investment cycle. Of course, it is also important for the public private, excuse our local self-government and the stakes in companies. It's quite an incentive for the economy. I thank the government once again where there is a real application, i.e. by increasing the stakes in Vartex, Varazdin, several thousand people have left to work. This is a strong incentive for our economy, and it is good in that part that we cannot say that there is something of strategic importance for Croatia. Something, some companies have, some don't. It's hard to define where that difference is, but I think the difference is made by people, and in that part, that vast majority has to be solved that way. And I would really like to point out in the end that that procedure, what we said was ambitiously going through this governance strategy in these four years, we're going to have to do something, to establish property and the list of real estates of the Republic of Croatia. Another 500 grand of real estate needs to be settled, and I think that would be a priority for at least four years, as said. Indeed, to complete the privatisation of companies that are not of strategic importance. There's six out there that's got 'em. I think it's a big coverage anyway, but, of course, in that part of it, you should organisationally define how to solve it. And of course defining regulations and laws so that all the property you said will be for the purpose of getting certain investments, getting new values, not losing to it. And, of course, once again defining, the formation of the Central Register of State Administration with all the data they need and that is to make even better decentralisation. Just for example. which is also pointed out 18 thousand are still pending requirements in AUDIO. If it's done every day for 360 days a year, if we let them celebrate New Year's, and Christmas will take us 50 years to figure it out by the end... That is why we propose to create a new... system in this part, to make regionalism, to be for Slavonia at least minimally, Zagreb central part of Croatia and the northern part of Croatia, for Dalmatia that people do not have to come for everyone in Zagreb and that they work more operationally on the ground so that people can have such demands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you said you have a centralized part of the data, that's not the problem. So we need to build a team. If it's hiring people, I think if it's the cost of one level, and the value gets a hundred times as many as a million times as that, then there's a lot of justification. This should be agreed by consensus that this is the way to think. Here, indeed, with the desire for this strategy to come to life and it is good that it was brought really once again congratulations in that part. I have to say for the courage to put everything on one level and then we can discuss it and change it if we have to and make it a good basis for the law that follows us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41174	Thank you. We have a replica of a colleague of Goran Beus Richembergh's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41175	You're right to say that adopting this strategy is actually the first step in solving the accumulated problems, of course. This is followed by the adoption of a whole series of laws, some of which are brand new. Law on tourist land, Law on maritime good and seaports. But there is also a need to think about what is not indicated in this strategy, which is the subject which is the question of the return of property which is currently registered to the state, but there are reasonable reasons for its return to those to whom it has been taken away. I will mention one category and I will mention it here until we resolve it, and this is a matter of return of property to the land communities whose decision was taken by the Croatian Parliament of the National Republic of Croatia in 1947 without the right to any compensation that the legal precedent was taken away from all property. And since then, virtually empty content has ceased to exist. Recently, in the Croatian State Archives, it was discovered that the complete documentation for more than 2.5 thousand land communities in 1947 was available, that it is possible to reconstruct all land communities from that time on ownership books, so that there are technical conditions for the reconstruction of the sequence and that the property is finally returned. It is amazing that the state has been talking for 23 years about justice and the return of property without resolving this important issue. There is no dispute that it cannot and will not return to full scope because circumstances have changed, but it is time for this government, for the Ministry of Justice to initiate this story and for the amendments to the Law on the Return of Assets to be taken away at the time of the communist rule to finally open the perspective for this return. I don't see why the Republic of Slovenia, which had no birth laws on the subject in the 19th and 20th centuries, was smarter than we were, which it solved since 1994 and 1996. I can see the reason for us to handle this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41176	The replica corresponds to the representative Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41177	Here I absolutely agree with the fact that this strategy also opens up a number of other issues that we need to open up and this kind of injustice that needs to be corrected. I would just say the same thing is that the compensation that is defined by the return of such property does not go to the level and to the expense of local and regional self-government rather than always the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41178	We'll also hear the debate of respected counterpart Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41179	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the end of the debate, and at the beginning of my presentation, I have to say it's sad to find out that the state doesn't even know what property it has and which one it manages. It is therefore necessary first to record, list and assess all assets in order to cover all forms and to ensure equal treatment throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The property itself shouldn't be a purpose. Its purpose is primarily in creating new values. So, by collecting funds from concessions, especially on a seabed, which is the most interesting thing for me, investing again in maritime well-being, in the rehabilitation of ports, harbors and the construction of new berths, anchors, etc., or of renting space, reconstruction and investment in those devastated. The solution to property-legal relations should be a priority especially now that we expect the most from withdrawing funds from European funds. We know without solved property-legal relations, nothing will be possible. This strategy says that the object of harmonising the property management system owned by the Republic of Croatia will be activities related to as many as 29 forms of property, so it stands under the number 1st agricultural land, 2nd tourist land, 3rd maritime well-being of ports and marinas and so on. I suppose this is precisely the order of tourist land and the maritime well-being of the port and the marinas at 2nd and 3rd places because of its value and importance. So I have to look back a little bit on the big problem of us in the coast, especially the unresolved issue of objects built on the embankment, the part of the land that has been created by the flood of the sea, the space for which we have definitions and problems. Everyone says the rash is by definition a maritime good, says the law, and thus the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and that it is illegal to sell objects built on a cliff. This strategy also says "Reals that cannot be alienated and among other things real estate that are on the maritime good" and that means property to which the state should manage and dispose. However, in many coastal places, and so I must say, in the very center of the town of Vodice, objects are built on the ridge that are today bought and sold on the obvious of all. Bus station and post office and bank and numerous catering and shopping facilities were also built on the hill. Many of these facilities stand in the most attractive locations, they are devastated and loud investment. We have an investor, however, who escapes seriously when they see no real estate relations resolved. And that problem can only be solved by the state. We have a need in Vodice to arrange the bus station. The post office often appears as the need to edit its space and all stops because of one single problem. All of this was built in due time by our social company Guided, and then by the majority owner of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which became an orderly saleser. Of course, individuals in good faith are buying from the state and the facilities that they bought from. And today, these facilities are still being bought and sold, but I have to say that there are many families living here and there. The same state which now threatens to take away similar years for these same facilities is dropping labour permits is incomeing taxes on a number of grounds, and the city has been warning and appealing to the State's Attorney's Office since 2003. In the third month, we could have marked the jubilee 10 years and nothing had changed. Everyone knows everything by making statements and still buying and selling. Now all these problems need to be added to another called legalization of these objects. Since these objects are mahogany-furnished glass terraces, then later they are turned into smaller commercial facilities and all of this is so fine in the center of Vodice. They cannot agree with the position of the State Office for State Property Management that these and similar problems will be solved as for example. tourism land to some other special laws we still do not pass because it has long been announced by the ministry that the draft law on maritime goods and seaports will be publicised and discussed by the end of the 4th month, however, none of it is yet. How can he, for example? The unit of local self-government to be the owner of priceless tourist land in the process of conversion and privatisation when it is not even known what it is estimated. And so these problems significantly burden local self-government units in the coast, burden our tourism and our economy as well, and finely and the Constitution requires that the sea, seashore and islands, which are legally defined as having its special protection of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The state on this basis has huge capital in its possession but I don't think it knows what to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41180	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the list of respondents to the debate on this agenda item. The head of the State Office for State Property Management, respected Mladen Pejnovic, is now entitled to a closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41181	Honorable gentlemen representing the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for your patience and participation in the debate in the document that we have drawn up in the best faith to improve our work in the field of governance of state property. The proposal for a strategy is a document that long-term wants to ensure transparency and efficiency of governance and the need and preservation of assets of existing and future generations of Croatian citizens. The strategy is also a document detailing and fully covering the characteristics of the state of management and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. When you read the text you could see that it was detailed but and extremely critical especially in the first chapters was an analysis of the state. Your remarks during the debate were just on the trail of the problems that we have isolated and analyzed in this document. State property management is bad that after 23 years of systematic neglect and expected. Disputes in the work of the state administration are often also disputes in bankruptcy, in the affairs of the state's attorney's office, in the business of the courts and state administrations in Zagreb and in the counties, in the cataster and in the land books, so-called in state institutions. For our people, this is the slowness of state institutions. This could lead to the conclusion that the state is a bad master. According to the information available in parts of developed countries in the Croatian environment, it is successfully seen that successful property managers on the principles of economic use are being used to earn profits and achieve satisfactory employment. From modern economic movements, according to all things, the success of asset management in the modern economy is not a crucial type of ownership, but above all the quality of governance of the same. It is therefore necessary to improve the quality of governance, raise it to a higher level, and we give it special importance in this strategy. We are not running away from the responsibility and from the hard work that is actually ahead of us where we need to put together and build a meaningful system that will also be effective for the benefit of all Croatian citizens. In the strategy we have therefore defined the approach and the new starting foundations in the management and management of state assets through two key ones, we have called them long-term strategic objectives which are longer than this strategy is legally for only four years. The first is to preserve important and valuable parts of state property according to the principles of sustainable development. Another organisation is a more efficient and transparent use of state assets with the aim of creating new values and achieving greater economic benefits. The analysis of the situation also found that, in some cases, donated land to local communities for the purpose of further management of development, the objectives of creating new values and achieving greater economic benefits were not achieved. This is why we want to improve this practice and finally introduce more effective supervision and clear and publicly known criteria so that this no longer happens. However, we would like to do so in cooperation with the local community and to apply the principle of transparency and efficiency because we believe that neither party is in the interest that this huge asset capital stands and continues to be unused. During the development of the strategy, we analyzed the problem of local and regional, i.e. regional self-government without desire and the ability to interfere in their way and system of work. However, what we will particularly insist on is that the basic principles of governance of state property are also applied to the management of property. To apply the principles of public, predictability, efficiency and accountability. We certainly want to achieve effective cooperation both in resolving co-ownership and in handing over certain jobs to local and regional self-government. For example. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. One of the identified problems in the analysis of the situation was both the high slowdown and ineffectiveness of the state and administration, which is also one of the basic reasons why there is still no single register of state property. Yeah, we're missing numbers in the strategy. And so we specifically processed them in two chapters, which is precisely the obligation not only to register the property and that its records must be pooled, that the property must be assessed and registered in the state accounting and also recorded in the state statistics. However, current records are not always bad. With this strategy, when we defined the scope of state assets, we also saw that the records in the area of shares in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia were regular and updated. It's the same with the stakes in companies. The same is true of concessions that are issued. It's a good record of cultural goods in a register of the same ministry. A relatively complete record of forest goods, then a good part is a correct record of agricultural land, apartments and business spaces. However, the basic disadvantage is that all these assets if they are listed are often not fully assessed, that the assessment methods are lacking. For example. I'll just tell you like this, the World Bank inquiry by which method you estimate the value of the Pula Arena. So we have a serious business in the development of the method of assessing the facilities and all the contents of state ownership in Croatia. It is also before us to apply the principles of international accounting standards for public services that are not yet applicable to us. All this speaks of a very complex approach that in such complexity can give a register that would be of serious benefit. What is missing now, anyway, is that the existing registers of unity, that their condition is checked and analysed on the ground because some of them are certainly obsolete. It is extremely important that these records be made public and made available to all citizens because ultimately it is the property of all of us. During the debate, former military properties were also mentioned, particularly in the segment of tourism development and local and regional self-government. Due to the already mentioned slowness of the administration and the unsettled property-legal situation, this capital remains unused. It is necessary to speed up these processes, clear records and prepare these properties for projects and investments in order to help this segment of state property create new values and achieve greater economic benefits. In any case, we intend to help speed up all investment processes in Croatia. More detailed planning and analysis particularly in the area of how state property can help and support investments will be processed in the annual management and availability plan of state assets. Finally, the following priority objectives are set from 2013 to 2017. It is the first to establish the full coverage of the property owned by the Republic of Croatia with a special emphasis on the settlement of the situation and on the management of these properties on quality new foundations. Secondly, to complete the privatisation of non-privatised parts of non-strategic companies and to improve the management of companies of strategic importance. Third, continuously assess and harmonise the effects of regulations governing all forms of property owned by the Republic of Croatia and individually assess the economic benefits of certain forms of state property. And fourth, form a central register of state property with accessories. Realising the online availability of property management decisions owned by the Republic of Croatia and owned by local self-government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I ask Mr. Representatives to adopt this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41182	Thank you. We'll interrupt the session now. The sequel is Tuesday at 9.30, it is 11 June, we continue with the Final Bill on Value Added Tax, and that day we will discuss all financial laws. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-06-0.u41183	The following is the proposal for a management and availability strategy owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2017, the debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 78 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 20 abstentions, adopted a Management and Property Strategy owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2017, the text proposed by the Proposer.
