ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u35485	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We continue with the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament and we begin. Here you go, colleague Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u35486	Dear Madam Vice-President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I request a 15-minute recess due to the inadmissible statements made by Minister Jovanovic on the work of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u35487	I'm setting a break to 14 and, from 10 minutes to 14 hours and 12 minutes. A meeting at 14.02 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14:12 HOURS]] On behalf of the Representatives' Club after a request for a break from counterpart Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u35489	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's club was offered by frequent and inappropriate statements by senior officials of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and particularly by the inadmissible statement by the Minister of Science, Education and Sport Jovanovic on the Constitutional Court asked for a break. We believe that right here in the Croatian Parliament as the highest representative and legislative body we are obliged to conduct a debate on these issues, especially concerning worrying attacks on state institutions. In recent months, and especially in recent weeks, we have witnessed messages of division, impatience coming from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and contempt for all who express different attitudes from the ruling ones. I remind you of the statements made by the Prime Minister, the black shirts, the black Byzantine, the cultural war, about voters who choose the worst of the worst. I also remind Minister Jovanovic of Croatia's division of the dark Middle Ages and modern Croatia of the 21st century. I remind Minister Linic of the war in which the dead will be, and in that war he calls himself a dangerous man. At the same time, the government has engaged in a conflict with social partners, trade unions and employers, with the church, with NGOs of a different worldview and the government very aggressively, arrogantly accounting with all those who dare to think differently, speak and act. But the last episode to quote the Prime Minister is really the worst of the worst. Direct attack by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports at the institution of the Constitutional Court. In a unanimous decision, I stress by a unanimous court decision that was not at his will questioned that decision and announced that it was even intending to bypass it. It is precedentd that one minister comments on the Constitutional Court's decision at all, let alone not implement it. The very institution of the court and the credibility of its president and some members of the court have been questioned. Therefore, simply put, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is questioning the legitimacy of the Constitutional Court. You can't remember a fall like this. I don't remember that any representative of the executive authority has ever been similar, that he has similarly collapsed on an institution that is the guardian of constitutionality, legality, and thus the stability of constitutional and legal order in the Republic of Croatia. If we accept such behaviour in the Croatian Parliament we will question and be co-responsible for the functioning of state institutions as a whole. I also remind you of the recent comments made by the Prime Minister on the decision of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, and I would dare say mocking that body by the director, so-called. public television. I also remind you of a statement by our colleague Grbin, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, that he will not raise his hand for a decision in the referendum if it is different from his position. Is this not also a direct blow to democratic institutions, democratic principles, to the stability of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia? In the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we also expect the reaction of the President of the Republic, Mr Josipovic, who, as a lawyer, is very well aware of the consequences of such statements by top government and parliamentary officials. And also colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition would like to know and hear, and I'm sorry that you didn't report for the word whether or not you share the views of your party colleagues, are you really willing to go so far as to put your narrow, party interests ahead of the stability of state institutions and society as a whole. I believe that most representatives of the Croatian Parliament will not allow such a thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u35490	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we'd like to do the first six points today. We begin with - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorney's Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 368. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the proposal will be explained by Justice Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39780	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. I would divide it into three segments that change it. It's the first and that's the basic reason why we're going through this procedure. It is a adjustment with two directives that will actually enable us to better fight crime by entering the EU. It prescribes and determines how Member States cooperate with Member States, prescribes ways of handling them, joint investigations. In particular, this refers to acts involving terrorism, organised crime, drug trafficking. Also, what is important to us and why we are looking for such an accelerated procedure, because so far we have had the EUROJUST Agreement, but without this law we could not actually participate in this organisation since 01.07. So that's one segment. The second segment concerns the adjustment of the state's attorney's status, i.e. the state's attorney's office in what you voted for, and we suggested it to you and it concerns the judicial authorities. So the whole series of provisions that have been laid here are, of course, respecting the difference that exists between the judicial authority and the state's attorney's office is actually here in front of you to make adjustments. Some things should have been done a long time ago. Let's just say so far in the law there has been no provision for a state school that has existed for several years. We're putting that on now. Why wasn't I going in, but there wasn't. There were some provisions that were completely out of time and space, and we're also correcting them. The third segment, I'm not going to say the most important, but I think it's very important, actually, it's about dealing specifically with civil matters. What's our problem, what we found is that we didn't have a record of who's being sued by the state and who's suing the state. It doesn't exist. We succeeded in the Justice Department here in this year, a year and a half to reach maybe 90% of the data and now we have them in one place, but there's no record. And it's absurd! So you run the ministry, and you don't really know where you're being sued and where you're suing. You can only get this paper to look for data so it takes a long time so it's not updated etc. So, what are we changing about this? We're introducing an obligation to keep records. So all records of all disputes where the state party will be in one place and all will be able to government and individual state bodies to come to that. This is important not only for management but also for budgeting. You know it's a matter of cost and interest. We'll simply be able to have an overview and manage these things better. The second thing, very important, also concerns civil action, which is the introduction of an obligation to be given by the State's Attorney's office to assess the likelihood of success in the dispute. We have often exposed our citizens, especially in the past, procedures that actually went towards their end that would be lost. But there was no evaluation, so then we argued to the end. We slowed down, we lost interest, we lost court costs. Someone was making money on it, but they were all losing. They were losing their citizens, and he was losing his budget. Therefore, this assessment will enable you to make a more informed decision as far as possible in a particular case. And that's what we're putting here. At the same time, one of the reasons why this was not done was often the inertness of state bodies. So here we establish the obligation that state bodies will have to have a coordinator for these affairs and will have to deliver all the documentation and their opinions on what is really going on in some dispute to the State's Attorney's office in order to bring this assessment and give it. So we're actually closing that one package and the whole decision-making process. And we believe we will raise the quality of representation. What might be a clean one to fence right away, we put here that the state body would give instructions. We'll change that to the amendment, there won't be an opinion. But here's one change that will be in relation to the text that's in front of you. So I'm saying one package of directives, another package is adapting the meanings of this organisational part and the third is the conduct in civil matters that we believe will reduce when there is an obscenity litigation of the state, on the other hand helping our citizens to determine their legal situation, but actually protect the budget and general interests of the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39781	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39782	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with an associate. Here's when Mr. Milenic says it all seems easy, simply so we even started to believe him. And before us is another amendment to the law that should ensure justice and justice for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The law that comes from the Justice Ministry workshop, or the Milenic team, according to current practice is a guarantee that it is a good text. After all, everything that came from the Ministry of Justice seems to me that we have accepted unanimity here in the Croatian Parliament. But even so far, there are not so many bad solutions in the texts, or laws that regulate the Croatian judiciary, that are derived from judicial practice. Every Croatian law and one before these amendments to the law is better than jurisprudence. When the State's Attorney's office finally started doing part of its job, catching criminals, they were said to have been allowed to change the law. Certainly, it was also one of the conditions for the State's Attorney's office to behave properly. It seems that all the laws in question allowed thieving, robbery and corruption. Is that right? Of course not. He was far more honest with the President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Josipovic, who said Mr. Mladen Bajic's Attorney General, would have ended up in a pot earlier. It wasn't the laws, it was the inerts, it was the misrepresentation of politics and political powers. So it's about the political will and also the courage of the attorney general, the courage of all those who work in the state's attorneys. It's about the willingness of society to be just and legal. So far, we're only content with texts. You could say we're a successful literate in the judiciary. Our performance is a little better than the unit because, of course, the largest part of all corruption affairs is not only not finished but it is not even started. There is still the impression that the State's Attorney's Office is only chasing political dead, small and unprotected fish. Large, powerful fish, regardless of whether they're underground, politics or a combination of underground and politics and large powerful fish involved in numerous affairs, are still being treated as pillars of society. What is being amended and complemented by the Law on the State's Attorney's Office? More changes than the nomotechnical ones to the essential ones. The most important change concerns cooperation between the competent authorities of two or more EU Member States in which we have just not, we are well aware, and formally entered. It means those EU members who conduct criminal proceedings. These amendments allow for the establishment of teams to conduct joint investigations. What investigation? First of all, those who will be prevented from terrorism, drug trafficking and human trafficking. With terrorism fortunately, we've had little to do with it, and I hope we don't have any in the future. Drug trafficking and human trafficking are a major, dangerous monster of all EU countries and then Croatia. But the hand on the heart of Croatia is the greatest monster, the greatest terror, the terror of corruption. The terror that has seduced the political powers, the god-awful managers and the underworld that has assisted the political powers. Croatia has destroyed the most, mutilated robbery and post-conversion corruption. What had failed to be destroyed, kidnapped in time and under cover of fitting into neoliberal capitalism and the free market, in 2000. It should be reminded of the words of Bruno B8sic, some dispute that his originals are but if they are not the one who wrote it well he wrote it. For centuries, he stole and stole from us, and the hardest and the worst will be when our people steal us and sell us... now there will be three dots, macrolopes. They'll come after us like big birds of prey, then there'll be an indecisive question of how to save us from ourselves at that time. That Bushic guy's right now. The amendments and additions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office therefore provide for joint investigative teams of the EU Member States. I also believe in cases where dirty banking business is taking place, as we have had opportunities, a major investigation is being carried out in several EU countries, when they join together so-called. Managers to get citizens as much money as they can with interest, credit agreements, high-priced service prices. A large majority of citizens and those in Croatia and those in other parts of the EU are concerned about existential concerns. What state's attorneys can so help to ease their timely cowardice? What Minister Orsat Milenic said at the outset should certainly be taken care of, taking care of who is being sued. When the state sues the citizen and the citizen sues the state. We should have that record, this law of this amendment and the additions make it possible. There is another big newspaper in this law that is certainly to be welcomed, which is an assessment of whether to enter a legal dispute or not. Anyway, it's another good text. We here in the Croatian Parliament should insist that the practice be similar to this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39783	Thank you. Two replicas to your exposure. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39784	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic was a little contradictory in this presentation when you were talking about the need for a new law. We were saying that the new Criminal Procedure Act enabled a more effective fight against corruption and organised crime above all. You challenged it by saying that it was not important but important political will, it was important to have a state attorney and you quoted the president's statement that he had started corning earlier to end up in a pot, so there's some contradiction. And now you're saying that the State's Attorney's Office, or the state's attorneys, are brave and work, etc. Then how could they not have been brave? So what is true is that the former Penal Code did not allow, of course, crime or corruption to be prevented, but the State's Attorney's office simply had no tools for their persecution, and no institutes were necessary to detect were effectively covered by the law. Therefore, the new law opened up opportunities, gave it an active role to the State's Attorney's office and gave it tools for effective, effective persecution, mainly in the part of the most difficult to detect and pursue, which is corruption and organised crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39785	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39786	... You didn't listen to me very well, my colleague Lovrin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the first row, I didn't say that, that the state's attorney was brave, because he wasn't brave until now so he couldn't be, start being brave after 8 or 10 years of his work, to work, to catch only political dead people I said, therefore, it wasn't true, he wasn't brave, he wouldn't be brave, it was his character trait. Secondly, I didn't say the law was unnecessary, it could have been done with the old law, yeah, it's new tools. It could've been with the old law. ... First of all, there was to be a political will, including a political will to change that law. [[The speakers don't understand.]] And the other thing, the state's attorney was supposed to act under that old law, and he could have acted. He was waiting for a moment of politics and it seems that politics is still the one that dictates both justice and government policy in all areas because there is no society. And that, that the judiciary is far below the texts, or laws governing the judiciary, is what I said several times in the presentation. So, I don't think you heard me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39787	And colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39788	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Vuksic is... Just before quotes, mentioned the DORH in the context of persecution, exclusively political dead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't agree with that. I suggest you reconsider your actions for the last three, four years. But certainly not only at the state level but also at the local level, because the powers are not only those at the highest state levels in the Parliament, the Government, etc., but also, of course, at local levels. Very powerful political sheriffs often rule at local levels. We are also faced with the fact that here we have and already some judgments that have been made to politicians, above all in the fight against corruption and crime. But it seems to me that something else is a bigger problem that we're not particularly discussing in this House. And that, on the one hand, is becoming one phenomenon, means the judgments of the courts and on the other, as if there were no convictions of the public, as if there were no convictions of the citizens showing you the results of the local elections. Look, some of whom have been charged, people against BUSKOK are leading investigations. People against whom the first-degree verdicts were also won were in the first round of local elections and some have a good chance of winning in the second round. That's what this is about. So, about a kind of phenomenon which, of course, many more often and better seen outside Croatia than we sometimes see in Croatia. And I'd like to talk more about it and get some kind of consensus about it. First of all, when they're putting together the same thing, can the list go to the people that are being investigated? My opinion is that no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39789	The answer to the replica Branko Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39790	Dear colleague Kosor, I agree with you on this part. But why is there no condemnation to the public? I'm talking about criminals or those who are suspected that criminals are pillars of society. It's the Croatian Parliament. We here allow the laws to sit in the assembly benches of those who have been convicted for up to six months, those who are under investigation. We don't judge our colleagues, so then they give us first bench lessons and they're under investigation and they get a prison sentence and they teach us morals. How can he react to society when he sees politicians setting a bad example. When we're going to set ourselves up here in the House for crime, when we're going to convict him in the right way, when we're going to tell those people who have been involved in crime or who are involved or who have 200 criminal charges, and the one like a colleague before, a brave lawyer, a state lawyer, doesn't react to these, for years, has been talking about all these criminal charges, then no one actually feels that those who steal or those who are involved in cloudy affairs are bad people. In fact, with us, we give examples that it's still worth stealing, that it's still worth paying off land that's a hundred times less worth trading for land that's a hundred times more valuable and it's not responsible for it. When did the conviction come from these assembly benches? When anyone has given up except, I say political dead people, when politics push them away, but not because someone is a criminal but because of it, because of the battle in their own political order.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39791	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39792	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments to the Law on State's Attorney's Office. This legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and, of course, we have received a statement on its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. However, in addition to that harmonisation of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, the provisions of the Law on Lawyership are in line with the law already adopted on courts and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judiciary Council. For the purpose of equating, in particular, the status and obligations of all judicial officials and the status of civil servants in courts and state attorneys. The obligations of state attorneys as head of judicial authorities have also been extended in relation to the Ministry of Justice as the highest body of the judicial administration. In addition to the need to comply with the legal standards of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, we consider it extremely important and to comply with all the rights and obligations of all judicial officials. Part of these amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office relate to the transposition into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia of the two decisions of the Council of the European Union and to the framework decisions of the Council of the European Union on joint investigative teams of 2002 and the Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union on the prevention and resolution of disputes on the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings of 2009. Under this proposal, the State Attorney's Office will, in accordance with the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, provide cooperation between the competent authorities of two or more Member States that conduct criminal proceedings by implementing the 2009 Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union. The request for contact shall be considered urgent if, for example, the suspect or accused person is arrested or found in a prison of investigation, and the measures prescribed are extremely important in order to prevent cases in which the same person is subject to parallel criminal proceedings in different countries in relation to the same facts which, of course, could lead to a final decision in these proceedings in two or more Member States. This also implemented the Convention on the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement in order to prevent breach of the principle of non-bis and Idea. The implementation of the 2002 Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union relating to joint investigative teams is essential primarily to the effective resolution of serious and complex criminal offences committed on the territory of the Republic of Croatia or other Member States such as drug trafficking or human trafficking as well as the criminal offences of terrorism. The prescribed conditions provided for in this proposal on the one hand allow for greater efficiency and on the other hand protects the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, if an investigation is carried out in the Republic of Croatia, the leader shall be a representative of the competent county attorney or of the anti-corruption and organised crime office, the State Attorney or Director of the Office shall act in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia, the members of the joint investigation team shall carry out tasks under the orders of the Head and shall ensure that the Republic of Croatia provides conditions for the work of the team. The provisions governing the rights and obligations of members of the investigative team lay down clear rules on the one hand, and on the other hand take account of the efficiency of the investigative team, which is extremely important in the processing of criminal offences, especially those of the serious ones. So, for example. Members of a joint investigative team from other countries, so-called Secondary members in whose area no actions are conducted, for example in the case of terrorism, are members of special investigative bodies dealing with the control of terrorism that can help either with their experience or with their databases and such. And to sum up, this part of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Attorneyship which transposes provisions from the European Union Council's framework decisions are also necessary from the aspect of compliance of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and from the aspect of legal certainty. The second part of the amendment and the addition of the Law on Attorneyship, which concerns compliance with the previously adopted Law on Courts and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, is necessary because, of course, judicial officials must have a uniform status, i.e. uniform rights and obligations. We also support the extension of the obligations of the state's attorneys as the head of the judicial authorities in relation to the Ministry of Justice as the highest body of the judicial administration. I will refer to some of the provisions that we consider extremely important not only for the unification of the status of judicial officials, but also for the very functioning of this important institution. For example, the possibility is deleted and there is a obligation of the Republic of Croatia to request from a state attorney or deputy state attorney the reimbursement of the damage they have caused to citizens or legal persons by their illegal or irregular work. So, not that the Republic of Croatia can decide on a discretionary assessment whether it will request a refund from a state lawyer or a deputy state lawyer who has caused the same damage and caused it, but is obliged to regress the damage. We also find it correct to decide on the incompatibility of a particular service and the work of a top state attorney with his state-level attorney's responsibility is responsible for the College of State Attorneys, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we support the extension of the obligations of the state's attorneys as the head of the judicial bodies in relation to the Ministry of Justice as the highest body of the judicial administration. This relates primarily to the selection of county and municipal state attorneys for whom, in accordance with these provisions, with the opinion of the College of State's Attorneys, or with the opinion of the College of the County's Attorney, the Institute of Opinion of the Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, we consider it extremely important and necessary that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to keep a single record of all procedures in which the State's attorney represents the Republic of Croatia in front of courts, administrative and other bodies and to prescribe deadlines and how such cases are handled. The delivery of the annual schedule of the State's Attorney's Office's affairs to the Ministry of Justice requires the obligation of the State's attorney to the highest judicial authority. In the same way, we find it quite logical that the Ministry of Justice determines how to use buildings and real estate assigned to the State Attorney's Office for use, and we welcome the opening of opportunities to build capital facilities for the needs of the State's Attorney's Office can also participate in the county, i.e. municipalities and cities. Furthermore, these amendments also open up the possibility that, with the exception of the judicial police, the protection and security of persons, buildings and property of the state's attorney's office and the maintenance of order in the state's attorney's offices, a legal person authorised for protection and insurance activities. Finally, the work of the State Attorney's Office, both civil and criminal, is an extremely important segment in achieving a true rule of law and therefore the work of the State's Attorney's Office must be subject to public assessment. I therefore support the provision under which each person has the right to the Ministry of Justice or to the Attorney General of the State to submit, in writing or verbally, statements and complaints to the work of that or the lower State Attorney's Office and therefore to receive a reply within 30 days at the latest. Because of what I've listed, the SDP club will support these changes and additions. But let me take another sentence, two more to the part that I heard at today's session of the Justice Committee, just from the debate of the motionors, or the minister of justice, which is the announcement of the amendment. Of course it's not in this text. The announcement of an amendment under which the obligation of the State's Attorney's Office will be to make an assessment and the likelihood of success in the dispute. I am especially pleased that this will happen. Recalling previous reports by a state attorney especially in that civic area where even in my debate I mentioned several so-called. I think it's a good part of the Justice Department, and I think it's a good thing that we've seen the data on the number of lawsuits that certain ministries have been suing, so we're looking forward to the fact that the Justice Department is here, and I believe that this will greatly improve quality and save a lot of resources from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39793	Thank you. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39794	Thank you very much. Comrade Fabiancic, you said this bill is in line with EU legislation. Do you know that there is a definition of a crime called robbery in the EU or in the EU 27 countries? There's no such thing with us. With us, it's an economic injury. And one more thing, in the former criminal code of the former state, there were two forms of crime. It was a theft and a hefty theft. Today, there's only theft as if someone who steals a kilo of bread is exactly the same in definition as the one who steals a dozen million lubes or so on. Now, if it's a alignment with EU laws, I don't know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39795	Reply to the replica Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39796	My colleague Grubisic, of course I know there was a crime of theft and heavy theft, I was in the judiciary for 20 years. I also know that there are crimes of robbery, that now in the criminal code of the mark, there are characteristics but there is no such name of the crime. But that certainly belonged to the debate when the Penal Code was passed, and then you should have intervened. In this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, we will not introduce new offences because it simply does not fall within the scope of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39797	On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39798	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another example from which it is evident that what we have already brought into line with the European acquis is constantly experiencing its changes and improvements, so in this case, the concrete reason for the amendments and additions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office is two, two important legal acts, or decisions of the EU Council which are trying and hopefully will integrate the conduct of state attorneys at Member State level in cases of transboundary nature. First of all, as the minister said, it is about acts of terrorism, organised crime, drug trafficking and similar acts which in principle do not recognise borders and do not recognise national legal order, and then the EU Council's initiative pays particular attention to raising the level of cooperation, coordination, repression, or preventing the continuation of the most serious forms of criminal offences involved. However, it is good and we welcome from the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats the intention of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to use these amendments for some harmonisation of the existing text with both practice and needs, and it is obvious that in the current legal text, when it comes to the state's attorney's office, there is a part of the outdated solutions, and what is more important is the lack of adequate solutions to specific situations. Of course, this opportunity can also be used for a general speech on the state's attorney's office and its work, but soon it will be an opportunity for the state's attorney to submit a report for 2012 to speak and specifically on how much the State's Attorney's Office has actually advanced both in technology and in technology and in practice, in view of the changes to the laws that took place three years ago that allowed the state's attorneys to work more directly and more directly on a whole series of cases of prosecution of criminal offences. What is here to welcome is that, therefore, the State's Attorney's Office is also under the obligation that on one hand citizens who address them with performances and complaints must respond and be manifested within 30 days because the practice I have witnessed also shows that when we speak to the State's attorney's office, we should wait a lot longer. Here's the last case of a guy like that, when the committee I chair addressed in January to the State's Attorney's office, we got an answer that he was wearing on his day on April 29th. Furthermore, I think it is good that these changes and additions are also introduced in order and in the management of not only the properties at the disposal of the State's Attorney's Office but also those of the property at its disposal or which can be built by the regional or local self-government in order to improve the working conditions of the State's attorneys in its field. What is a step is also worth welcoming and supporting is the fact that it finally wants to establish a record of all procedures in which the State's attorney represents the Republic of Croatia and the legal person owned or weighted by the Republic of Croatia. It's just amazing that there was no such thing as so far because there was then a question as to why we received certain statistics in the reports when it came to the interests of the Republic of Croatia and legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is good because some things will obviously be easier to plan and what the Minister said in both financial and organisational terms, and on the other hand, it is good to see the state of all these cases in the records to see whether in some situations the Republic of Croatia is also clearly litigating itself or whether it is smarter to approach a settlement, i.e. agreement or extrajudicial forms of agreement on common interests when it comes to its legal interest. The fact therefore that these amendments and additions to the law are also required by the fact that the possible outcome of legal proceedings has been decided, i.e. disputes, is also something we want to welcome, because in many cases it was obviously a very comfortable approach where, at any cost, it was actually a formal protection of interest without an actual assessment of the possible judicial effect, i.e. the outcome of legal proceedings in which the State's attorney represented the Republic of Croatia. Now, this level of responsibility suggests that the state therefore requires that those representing it also take part in the risk of making a final decision on whether to enter into a certain legal procedure or not because the assessment will certainly affect the final decision of the person represented. We also welcome the intention to address these changes and additions to certain questionable situations or discrepancies in view of other legal regulations that treat the judicial system where so far could have happened that the state's attorney's mile actually had rights or obligations per one, and other judicial officials according to other criteria. Here, this practice, i.e. a whole series of criteria and conditions, is being evened up, and I hope that these provisions that define the possibility of a temporary stay of a state's attorney's office in such a way that the state's attorney's office can be temporarily engaged in other transactions within the judicial system, but also the Ministry of Justice will also contribute to a better organisation, but also to the fluctuation. The strengthening of responsibilities, i.e. defining the conditions under which Deputys of the State Attorney General can be resolved, is also very important because the public's impression is that practically deputies as well as county attorneys are almost unquestionable and that in their cases efficiency cannot be properly questioned, i.e. that it does not ultimately affect their status. This is not good because the State Attorney's Office is especially expected in transition times to be organised, I would say even unity, i.e. a high level of efficiency. In any case, the HNS Club welcomes and will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law, believing that these amendments are currently going in this direction in order to achieve a higher level of efficiency and co-ordination of the State's Attorney General within the entire system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39799	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39800	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, Minister, Deputy Deputy Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is one area where all the clubs in the Croatian Parliament should agree, and in most cases we agree when it comes to such proposed laws, which are, above all, of interest to the Croatian Parliament, almost a month ago, the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. Therefore, and here I have participated today in the debate on the Committee on Justice, so we have supported this bill in a unique way. First of all, since in this first part this law agrees with the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, on the implementation of EU Council Framework Decisions on Joint Investigation Teams and Council Framework Decisions on the Prevention and Resolution of Disputes, on the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. So, so far, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia has had solutions concerning joint cooperation when it comes to the crimes that have an international legal character, but this is a convention which is our obligation to implement our legislative system that would primarily increase the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the context of our country's entry into the EU, but also a common fight with the Member States and neighbouring countries when it comes to organised crime and preventing crimes of human trafficking, drugs and so on, and so on, that is something that is an obligation of the Republic of Croatia, and I say so far in our laws we have solutions when... the issue of such cooperation is not, not in this way, as it has been resolved by our conventions and obligations to take over into the Croatian legal system. So it is in this part of the need for urgency of the process as explained by the minister. Otherwise, here in the Parliament we always had when the bill proposals came from the Justice Department always had in two readings, which is better when a wider debate is being held and they bring perhaps better quality solutions. In this second part of the law to comply with this bill with the Law on Courts, which we have passed in the meantime, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, namely the technical, nomotechnical and improvement of the version of existing laws. In practice, therefore, problems arise that better legal solutions to changes and additions to the law in practice show that it is necessary to amend them. What we support in particular in this bill is this evaluation of the effectiveness, therefore, of the likelihood of success in the dispute and of reporting on the state of the case and of the notification of it to the competent Ministry of Justice. We have seen that even according to the State's Attorney's Office's reports, many procedures have been conducted unfortunately and lost procedures and spent money from the state budget, and it has already been known in advance that these actions have no purpose of being lost in courts as such, and this is a good solution to give an assessment. This takes responsibility, and is protected by the interests of the Republic of Croatia, primarily by financial interests, because for which it is for nothing to spend financial resources from the state budget if it is already visible in the beginning of which lawyers and lawyers, as well as the State's Attorney's Office should recognise whether it makes sense to participate in such a procedure. And we've seen in reports that somewhere around 65% of the state's attorney's procedures on behalf of the Republic of Croatia lose, and then this is a good legal solution and with these international legal obligations that we are certainly taking on something that is a good legal proposal to support. As far as these other legal solutions are concerned, so these are the technical changes and repairs of the laws we have so far. What I particularly point out on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I myself was a member of the State Judicial Council and also of the State Lawyers Council, the need for continuous improvement in the context of our country's entry into the EU, as well as the need for both state lawyers and deputies of state lawyers through the Judicial Academy to be trained to continue learning and to move forward in their knowledge. This is certainly one of the preconditions for quality and the laws that we adopt but also the quality of persons who are professionally conscious and fair, and, above all, with great effort, should implement these laws that we in the Croatian Parliament have supported. When the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the EU 1.7, all of what we have done in this package of judicial laws and new solutions to the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia will surely encounter some weight because it is not the same law, so debate it in the Assembly, to improve legal solutions from what should really be done in practice. so that this need for continuous training is something that should certainly be supported, but also in the financial part of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, to monitor the provision of financial resources for both the State Attorney's Office and the Justice Academy and the State School for Judicial Officials, as well as for the State's Attorney's Council alone, the State Judicial Council there are new challenges for the Republic of Croatia, as well as new frameworks that will be opened and the problems that will be opened when we really start to implement what is our obligation to Croatia's entry into the EU. We have heard from the minister that there will be another amendment to this law when the Law on Criminal Procedure is brought into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court so that there is nothing against this bill, it should only seek that everything we have implemented into the Croatian judicial system is indeed in practice enforceable and that these laws, which are primarily legally well-supplied, have a purpose for citizens and citizens of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39801	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39802	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate. Here comes another amendment to the State's Attorney's Law. This is since 2009 when the law was passed on the seventh amendment today, the minister announces a new one that will be necessary since the law on criminal proceedings will have to be amended in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. And I think for the sake of those who will apply this law in practice would indeed be useful to propose then perhaps a new Law on the State's Attorney's Office, considering whether to comply with this and with this judicial branch of justice, so that then the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on the State's Attorney's Council is divided, as it was done, as is the framework of judicial jurisdiction, so that we have the Law on Courts and the Law on the State's Judgment Council. It's not necessary, but the methodology would in some way be even. Here they are mostly supported by clubs by these changes and additions. I would only regret what we often talk about on behalf of the HDZ Club that laws are passed anyway in the Croatian Assembly in the procedure that has been overlooked by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, this law goes into emergency procedure because it is called European law and harmonisation with the European acquis. However, out of 61 articles, well 60, if I didn't count on that entry into force, exactly two articles refer to the matter of harmonisation, they do have several new articles in them which are complemented by the law but everything else, so the other over 50 articles refer to another matter which is not a harmonisation that we would do well to have the opportunity to discuss in two readings. Today, the promoter also hears that, eventually, dilemmas, doubts or suggestions are implanted in the final text. This way, under the pretext of harmony, we actually have a whole other matter. However, here in this section where we are making an emergency law because it is in line with the acquis of the European Union, we can say that this Article 12 implements the Council Framework Decision of 30 November 2009 on the prevention and resolution of disputes on enforcement of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. Article 13 of the Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union of 13 June 2002 on joint investigative teams shall be implemented. This matter has been in the air for a long time now, so it's been talking for longer and looking for joint investigative teams since 1999. It is also necessary for the adoption of the Convention. But here are these investigative teams wanted by the European Council primarily for the sake of effective fight against cross-border crime, particularly terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, smuggling, corruption crimes and so forth. This possibility is also open to one provision that now stands in the Law on State Law but of course the functioning of these joint investigative teams should be regulated by law as legal matter. Because Article 201 of the current law actually provides for the possibility of conducting joint investigations. Thus, a series of articles in these additions regulates matter when the state attorney's office can seek the establishment of a joint investigative team, determines the content of this requirement, the powers of the joint team when it operates in the Republic of Croatia and this is extremely important and the law has arranged that when they act in the Republic of Croatia, they must always comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. It has been done so so far because there have been several cases that it has been done within the framework of the UskoK. Therefore, rights and obligations of the so-called so-called so-called ‘registration’ are also established. secondary members, and these are members from those countries, other countries in the area where investigations are not carried out, but they are involved in the investigation team. It is also important to include a provision governing the storage of data collected during the work of the team and how such data can be available, i.e. how members of other countries can make it available to their countries and data, i.e. that they can only be used for the purpose of the investigation in question. It is also important that the provisions governing Europol and Eurojust's participation be governed. And another important provision that the law also needed to establish is that it determines the value of evidence collected by the work of a joint investigation team collected by a foreign body and they will be considered, under the conditions of reciprocity, legal evidence, of course, with always that fence if they do not oppose the principles of the domestic legal order. The civil liability of the Republic of Croatia for damages to the state's attorney in such joint teams has also been established. Here, this would be the most important part in the part in which this law is a European law and in which it is aligned with the acquis and which it was worth doing. However, there are a number of further provisions. Provisions which actually comply with the provisions of the Law on Attorneyship with the Amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council. So, of course we think we need to level these two segments, the state's attorney, the state's attorney's office and the court's officials. It is primarily about the provisions on the availability of property cards, the provisions on civil servants. It is that since there is a provision that, in the appointment of the President of the Court of Justice, the State Judiciary Council is seeking and must be given the opinion of the Minister of Justice, this is now being extended to the appointment of state lawyers. So, the justice minister gives an opinion on the choice of a state lawyer at the county and municipal level. What is the excuse, however, that in one part of the state's attorney as well as the president of the court, the judicial administration would, for which it is responsible and supervised by the Ministry of Justice. It is also within the meaning of the power to appoint the perpetrators of office if it expires for any reason, the State's attorney shall cease to act on his duty shall be limited to a maximum of one year. However, my proposal is to make this more clear that it could not be another year because we had cases with the president of the courts that then this provision was played out in a way that after a year someone else was appointed for a year. So the provision should be clear. I'm going to say something about the bill that everyone here has praised, and I'd also say he's useful. And it would be good if we could discuss it in more detail through two readings because I note that we received this law last week, that the Justice Committee discussed it two hours before the plenary session, and that is still the final proposal. It is certainly good, therefore, that the State Attorney's Office as a body that is independent, independent and under the Constitution is obliged to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia to keep records of all the procedures it leads to on behalf of the state bodies or which leads to power of attorney, that it must give an assessment of the likelihood of success in the dispute, absolutely. However, I ask the question of where is the responsibility and what will happen if the state authorities continue to litigate and conduct proceedings. We have now seen that the minister said the amendment will intervene in a way that he will say that the state authorities will not give instructions but opinions to the state's attorney. This, of course, is in line with the constitutional position of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent body. But what we've been talking about for many years, I personally at least, which is that the state's attorney's office would have to play an active role in these disputes and not just passively ask the state's bodies whether they're going to be run or not, but in some way have an impact and decide whether they're going to run procedures that have no chance of success, whether they're going to complain when they're going to complain because there's no chance of success in the appeal, etc. Therefore, it must be made clear who it is that decides to continue the procedure because it has often avoided the State paying its obligations by delaying the procedure. He said the minister would protect the state interests and the budget in this way, but I think it is primarily necessary to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia against the violent behaviour of the state from the position of power. In fact, we've seen from the state's attorney's report for a number of years that in cases where the state's attorney is then the state's attorney's office succeeds in disputes. But often when the state is sued, then the success in disputes is extremely small, i.e. citizens succeed in 70% of cases. What we read from this, we read that the state deliberately does not give citizens what is their right and is going into disputes in order to postpone this payment by a few years and therefore needs to protect citizens against the state, that no state body can be boasted and not fulfil what is legally required by the law of the citizen. Furthermore, these amendments have also introduced, in particular the obligation of state lawyers to continue training and the right of state lawyers to participate as teachers or co-workers in the follow-up. I'm interested in something else here, and this is because, according to my knowledge, judges and state lawyers have more interest than education opportunities, and perhaps more than open opportunities to participate in the course or as a teacher at the Judiciary Academy. It would be interesting, and I don't think there are any criteria actually, clear criteria for how education comes about or how it's possible for someone to be a lecturer at the Judicial Academy or a teacher, and I think that part, as an unsettled part, would be worth sort of establishing some criteria. Just one more thing, as long as time allows, about the term of office of members of the State's Attorney's Council, that's what we've also talked about. This should be arranged by calling for the following amendments to regulate it, so as the law says that no one can be more than twice a member of the State's Attorney's Council now and the law is in line with the constitutional text, so it is no longer possible to be a deputy state's attorney more than twice in a row than it can be more than twice. However, here I point to the provision of the mandate of the State-Law Council, so the start and end of the term of office of the State-Law Council does not follow the start and end of the Croatian Parliament's term of office. Since the two members of the National Attorney's Council are MPs in the Croatian Parliament, then the question of their mandates expires somewhere within the half-term of the body and what will then be considered twice, whether it is a full mandate and I think it would be an opportunity for this law and for that part to be arranged. Here we are again and not for the first time before the final act for the reason that we are on the one hand discussing a law that has provisions of European law because it is in line with the acquis of the European Union, but only in one small part. And most of it is actually a bill that would have to go to another reading according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And that's why we're put before the final act because we can't vote against harmonisation, and we'd actually vote against it because the law doesn't go in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39803	Replica, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39804	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members of Lovrin, from a methodological point of view, you have noted very well that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, despite having its own European dimension and calling for two important framework decisions of the Council of the European Union, is nevertheless a serious step towards regulating relations between the state's attorney and in this particular case, first and foremost, the Ministry of Justice, which we consider to be one good way in principle. However, whether it was useful and necessary to bring it all together in such a short procedure is what remains for the government to consider. But since the minister has also been on the board and has announced new amendments to the law before, we believe that, in another context, with a little more time, a more contentable and quality debate will be held. When it comes to content itself, what is important when these two framework decisions are taken into account should also be highlighted at the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Legal Matters between EU Member States. Therefore, the Convention adopted by the Council as an in-depth cooperation to that Framework Convention since 1959. The Council of the EU and on the basis of which these two framework decisions have been taken, which very detailedly regulate legal co-operation in criminal matters between Member States and which will also be open to Croatia for accession after membership. This is also the case with Article 28 and the Convention on which the Ministry of Justice will also be sure to take care of itself. And the second element that I think is important is therefore, in representing the State's Attorney's Office abroad, it would be good for us, with this record, that perhaps at some later stage of analysis, a review of how we've been standing with civil proceedings abroad, because this seems to me to be a subject that's been going under the radar for a number of years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39805	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39806	My colleague Plenkovic, yes, as I was saying. But the Minister of Justice announced to us on the board a new amendment to the law, and he comforted us that today we will not be able to discuss it, or we cannot intervene in the amendment because it is impossible in this kind of text, that we will have a chance to discuss it, because there will soon be a new amendment and addition of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. So again, I call on the minister to go with a new amendment and a supplement to go with a whole new law so that we can have a chance to discuss it. Because let's not fool ourselves, we won't have a chance to discuss what we discussed here today because it will become a law, and amendments and additions will only go towards those articles that need to be aligned with amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. So it's hard to have a chance to re-discuss what we're deciding today. And you've seen, you've elaborated this European part well and beyond, and it's large enough and demanding enough and has enough matter to discuss in 15 minutes the provisions on joint investigative teams, their powers, their responsibilities, the principles of how they work, etc. And not a whole bunch of other 50 articles that we're talking about on the way, and they're not irrelevant. Some have come exceptionally and are welcome, but we are sorry that we can't discuss it anymore. And then this, because according to the law, the State's Attorney's Office also represents the Republic of Croatia abroad. Of course, it chooses through whom it will represent us abroad, which legal team or office, and in that sense it proposes to the government to confirm that. But it would be good to have one piece of information about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39807	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and representative of HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39808	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow representatives. Every amendment and addition of the laws or reports of a state lawyer here in the Croatian Parliament is, of course, always an opportunity to say something about the success of Croatian institutions above all in the fight against corruption and against crime, but to see again in the first of July which is so close to us and the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU to remember the difficult work that we have done in particular in chapter 23 of the Croatian accession negotiations, chapters that were unique to the Republic of Croatia and through which we successfully and fought against I would say Hall, but also strengthened independent institutions. First of all, I am referring to the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK, but also the Croatian courts in the consolidation of what is called the Croatian judiciary in the fullest sense of the word. It is precisely because these amendments and additions to the laws are not only a harmonisation and they are not just about what we have committed to the EU Treaty of Establishment because it is about the establishment of joint investigative teams, but the amendments and additions of the law that are intruding and the functioning of the state's attorneys themselves. I urge Mr. Minister to go to the end of the debate and you can remove this emergency procedure, so that these amendments and amendments to the law still go in the regular procedure. By July 1, we will be able to do both the first and second readings. First of all, I mean this because of this news that you are introducing with this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, therefore giving the opinion of the Minister of Justice on candidates for municipal and county state attorneys, but also the possibilities as it says in the amendments and additions to the law, proposals for the resolution of the county or municipal state attorney, which may be submitted by the Minister of Justice. It seems to me that these amendments that I am talking about are not fully in line with that intensities, and we have all brought here, by consensus, amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 with one of the intensities to further strengthen the independence of the Croatian judiciary and institutions such as the State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, the introduction of opportunities and giving opinions but, in particular, by the proposal of the Minister of Justice to resolve the county's or municipal state's attorney, we are opening a small door to the impact of policy on the work of the state's attorneys. Of course, I don't think of you personally, Mr. Minister, but I am thinking in general of this possibility that every policy, regardless of party membership, is at some point of course when in power certain political parties in some way seem tempting. So this is one of the reasons why I suggest that you still agree to two readings and that by the end of June, until the end of June, so until the EU's entry of the Republic of Croatia, we allow another debate among others and these new possibilities that you open by amending and supplementing the law. And the second reason why I propose this is one good intention that I am absolutely reading from the amendment proposal and the addition of the law in Article 7, so where it is said that the State's Attorney's Office shall give, at the request of the state bodies, opinions on draft draft laws and other regulations. I fully understand this insistence because I have faced myself many times that when the law is passed, the government wants to make sure that the position on particularly sensitive issues is correct and that there will be no problem afterwards, I simplify. However, this type of thing is very, very wide. So, state bodies that state bodies, state bodies are very co-workers and fellow broad concepts. So what state bodies will be able to ask the DORH for an indication of what draft laws and other regulations are being made here? So, practically, then it can happen that opinions from the State's Attorney's office are asked about all the bill's proposals, all the regulations. I'm saying this because practice has shown anyway that since we've really created a solid, uncompromising political framework through laws, above all, to fight corruption and crime, we've been faced often with certain institutions having difficulty making decisions, that people in certain bodies, agencies, administrations, etc. They don't sign decisions, they don't make decisions. So they are not determined in what their job is by fearing naturally criminal persecution. I am afraid that this amendment in Article 7 may open up space for the state attorney's office to literally be filled with requests for an assessment of the law, i.e. opinions on draft draft laws and other regulations. So, since I understand what you really want with this proposal, I suggest we maybe define that part. So let's agree on what decisions are actually previously given to the State's attorney's office. That way we'll be thinking much more efficiently and achieving what the legislator wants and what here and in the name of my club I absolutely support. Of course, as far as these possibilities are concerned, the establishment of a joint investigative team full of support. We have been very effective in the fight against human trafficking as a state, in the fight against drug trafficking, and indeed in this sense we have excellent results and successes, and certainly by entering, or sitting at a table of European states and people, we must engage more actively in the fight against terrorism. But also as a member of the NATO alliance, of course we are both very active and fruitful and that we have results. Here, with these few remarks, especially with the emphasis of this new possibility of giving an opinion and requests to resolve the county, or municipal state attorney's office, we are giving some support to amendments and amendments to the law but I still think it would be good to leave another option to discuss these changes. And as far as the new full proposal of the State's Attorney's Law is concerned, the sooner the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39809	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Justice Minister Mr Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39810	Thank you very much. It's just that there are certain things that might not go any further in that. So this about giving an opinion on draft laws is an identical provision that exists now. We only put it from one head in another for clarity. So neither point nor decimal changes there. That's what you have in your current law. So that's not new. As far as the opinions on appointment and motions for resolution are concerned, we have brought this into line with the Law on Courts. It's illogical that if we voted there we could go into it so it couldn't go in this case. So it's only about the segment of the administration, so it's not making decisions, and it's just a proposal that it's deciding again... So, exclusively an independent body in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] State's attorney's office. But I repeat, we've brought this into line with the Court Act. One more thing, from the previous same thing, might be that there would be no misunderstanding, only a decision on representation and giving up will be made by the State's Attorney's office on its own. It's in the current solution, it's by the Constitution and it's not touched. So no one has anything to say, they can only give an opinion but it's a constitutional and legal provision. So that's where no one decides except the DORH. This is what you have in the Constitution, and you have in the article 88 where the government can eventually give an opinion that is not binding on anything. So it's an independent state's attorney's office. I just mean this so we don't get any further, if we knew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39811	Thank you. Replica, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39812	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, yes, on this matter of giving an opinion, i.e. It's the same type of manipulation as the existing law. However, it is in the text of these amendments and additions, and everyone has the right to comment on it and I really agree with my colleague that it is often the State's attorney's office that is buried because they are afraid of making decisions and only the State's Attorney's office often says that it can no longer resist so many requests for opinion. And as for this, there is no misunderstanding. I understand very well that the state and I know what it says in the Constitution and the law that the State's Attorney's Office decides on it on its own. I'm talking about the practice of long-term practice that the State's Attorney's office instead of coordinating it with the state's bodies sends them a letter, what do you think gives us that information what you think. Of course, they don't think anything and it won't end because they'll have to pay off from their position, so it's better to last as long as possible and the State's Attorney's office doesn't show up actively to say we won't argue anymore because it's a lost cause. He doesn't exactly do that, so he often goes to complain. And another excuse, why he might be going to complain because we have complaints from the State Audit that I personally experienced in a dispute that had no chance of success after a first-degree verdict when we did not complain because the review of the complaint made that not all legal resources were used to protect public property. Here's a little apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39813	The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39814	Thank you very much. In fact, we are in line with that, as far as we're concerned, that's exactly why this assessment is used to make the State Audit a different attitude. And what I said and the state bodies now, according to this legal amendment, must give the State's Attorney's office all the elements of the case in order for it to be better represented. That's the spirit of these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39815	We're moving on to an individual debate. First up, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39816	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate. Here is Law 368 bearing the E mark or European even though it contains in addition to what compliance with EU legislation is listed and a few other things that have almost nothing to do with EU legislation. It is that this law is harmonised in connection with joint investigative teams and joint investigations in line with EU decisions on particularly serious crime, drug trafficking, people, etc. This includes persons from other countries who are interested in certain cases and is mentioned here even by the United States. What is not related to any directives or EU regulations are e.g. the use of buildings and real estate allocated to the State's Attorney's Office and that county, cities and municipalities may participate in the construction of capital facilities for the purposes of state attorney's offices. So it doesn't matter. Second, that the State's Attorney's Office is obliged to keep a single record of all the procedures in which the State's Attorney's Office represents the Republic of Croatia. I was thinking that already and now there is that it is already in practice. However, as you yourself nod the main obvious that it is not and it is a pity that it is not to see exactly what extent the success of representing the state of Croatia is in relation to the claims and legal acts taken by legal and natural persons towards the Republic of Croatia. It is true that Mrs Lovrin also said in this debate that in those cases in which the state was sued by natural or legal persons the success of these or their more than 75% were therefore a successful end of the lawsuit. Furthermore, the process of appointing state lawyers, then framework criteria for the work of state attorneys, etc. all of this is what is beyond or beyond the subject of the EU, and in fact it is beyond what we are saying is that this law bears the code E, which is a decision from the Tampera 15th and 16th of the 19th of '99, when it was determined that EU countries simply set up joint investigative teams and lead joint investigations in line with the '99 Tampere Framework Decision. It is interesting that it is in the agenda of this session of the Parliament and the legislative proposal under regular number 255 which is not European but is Croatian. And the proposal was submitted by the HDSSB club. In this proposal submitted by the HDSSB club as a complement to the Law on the State Attorney's Office, whether we are going to discuss it or not depends on the procedure under way in the Croatian Parliament, but I must say that in that addition to the Law on the State's Attorney General's Attorney General, therefore the person elected as the Attorney General cannot carry out that duty more than twice. I'm curious if that's what I'm saying, but maybe this is how we generally have a series of things that are included here in this bill, why this bill hasn't been considered, or is thought to be the same person for life. Which is why the state's attorney only gets elected twice and in parallel. Therefore, the basic raid is to prevent the concentration of power which is subject to pressures, day-to-day political developments and actions suggesting arbitrarily, selectively and exceptionally discretionary treatment regarding the persecution of perpetrators of criminal offences. The solutions contrary to the attitude to say political elites enable therefore a obedient relationship in which the work of the attorney general may be exposed to pressures and result in ineffectiveness of work which we have had the opportunity to see in these past eight years which have already been the case. Therefore, the success of the mandate can be measured over an extremely long period of time, which is enough 8 years but can also result in delays of persecution or their abuses for political and other purposes. Here's the law bearing the mark 255, or number 255, so it's the same addition to the State's Attorney's Law as this one, although this one bears the mark E just because here's my first one, my observation that it's joint investigative teams and joint investigations in accordance with the Tampere decision. The HDSB Club will, therefore, submit an amendment to Article 20, which states that Article 99(1) amends and reads: that the State's attorney ceases to be in office on the day of termination of office and the merger of state attorneys, on the date of merger of state lawyers, by giving a strict sentence, on the day of power of decision and resolution. And fifthly, I would say so, and after two consecutive terms are up. I see no reason if, in most European countries, it is precisely such a practice that the attorney general, therefore, has two consecutive mandates not to apply in Croatia either, or we have introduced an institution of a lifelong state attorney. I repeat to a lifelong state attorney who works, for a while works, for eight years, two years, three jobs and eight years he hasn't worked and so on. Just for those reasons I read earlier when I was talking about why the HDSB Club also submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the State Attorney's Law. Now, given that the law as E is addressed, therefore, as European, it is expected that we will accept it, is it, although much of it says material does not apply to European practice, nor is it to any directives, especially the construction of courts, i.e., excuse me, the building of state lawyers and capital facilities for the needs where county, cities and municipalities can participate. Well, let them participate or do not participate, it is Europe, it does not touch Europe at all. There's no need for that. That's why I say it's hard to say whether we vote yes or not. And this first and basic purpose of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law is therefore common, joint investigation, investigative teams, joint investigations in accordance with the Directive. But some other things we're a little skeptical about, some other things we're a little skeptical about. Even in this bill, we have some indication that the deputies of the state's attorney, so I'm saying he can't be a member of the state's attorney council more than twice. So, the deputy state attorney, but I'm a state attorney, the attorney general doesn't touch him like he's the world, I don't know what it's like to say, now that I'm not free, what in India, the world, right? [[Intruder: Bring an end to the debate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39817	Thank you very much. Replica, Anna Lovrin's replica. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39818	My colleague Grubisic, you reminded me very well, yes. That there is one proposal from the HDSSB to supplement the State Attorney's Law, but it is not important to the government. I don't know if the government's opinion on the law has come at all, it's probably, I guess, if the government has come to say that it's going to change anyway, it's going to change and supplement the law, and then it's going to cover it. But she didn't cover it. But here I was also reminded that thank God we have a proposal from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, thank God in two readings, and we will also discuss the introduction into the Rules of Procedure of a provision that does not only introduce new points of the agenda, preferably in order of the agenda and those already existing push into the last, last, place. Because here's your bill of law that bears the mark 255 is now in 43 places. And urgent today is the first law to bear number 368 because it is a priority, because it is a European law although not even 20% does not apply, I have said much, to harmonising with the acquis of the European Union. And I don't know if there's any argument that these changes are urgent that we had to put them on the agenda here last week, and your proposal isn't urgent. So, in any case, it was polite to say at the very least that the debate on these two drafts of the law was then united, that the government and the motionor of the government proposal were also manifested, that we had discussed this and decided jointly. In this way, your proposal will never be in order unless we change the Rules of Procedure because the government will always have more pressing things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39819	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39820	Thank you, Mrs. Lovrin, for noticing this, for expecting at least someone to notice, but here's a good observational power, so that's good. In fact, the point is that it is true, come on, you said in percent 20% it refers to harmonisation with the laws of the European Union and with the directives of the European Union, so this law. But since we are given the opportunity to make an amendment in article 20 concerning Article 99. We will also withdraw our legal proposal if the minister adopts the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39821	We're continuing the debate. My colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39822	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the law therefore implement the framework decision of the Council on the prevention and settlement of disputes, on the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings and on joint investigation teams. These provisions should only be clearly welcomed, they will ensure the co-operation of the authorities of the Republic of Croatia and other EU countries, therefore not only of the State's attorney and his pandas in the investigation of therefore serious and complex criminal offences committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or the territory of the Member States. It's clear that crime knows no bounds. Administrative, language barriers crime do not know and countries must find instruments that will be able to effectively combat international crime. These changes give some instruments for that very purpose. A further majority of the provisions amending and supplementing the provisions of the Law on State Attorney's Office represent an assessment of the improvement of the existing text, rationalisation and good progress. For example, he would point out the commendable amendments to Article 5, which stipulate that now a fixed 30-day deadline for responding to the performances and complaints to the work of the State's Attorney's Office is determined explicitly, which is a significantly better formulation than the time limit so far. I would point out the amendments and Article 16 which stipulate that the Croatian State Attorney's Office is obliged to keep a single record of all the procedures in which it represents the Republic of Croatia in civil and administrative matters, i.e. in which it represents certain legal persons. But clearly, I did not report to this debate that I would only praise the good solutions in the proposed text but, primarily, to make certain remarks that could therefore, firstly in the future, since the law is now in the urgent procedure, in the announced new amendments and amendments to the law, to contribute in my opinion a better solution to this matter. I would primarily have a certain terminology remark on Article 87(1) in the part of which it refers to legal persons owned or predominantly owned by the Republic of Croatia. In fact, this provision is termologically, so nomotechnically, I would not comply with the Company Act, but neither with the Property Act nor with other real rights. So here, in the first place, I think of companies, but in a legal sense, in terms of the Company Act, ownership of companies over companies is simply not possible. In the sense of this law of the ZTD which is the alloy of the specialis in that matter, I must point out that there are no owners of the company or owners of the legal person. There are therefore only members of the company, i.e. shareholders or shareholders of the shares. And when we talk about institutions then, of course, we talk about founders, not owners. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on ownership and other real rights has been determined that the property facility is an individual matter, therefore not a person, a thing. Therefore, the literal interpretation of the laws as otherwise required would lead to the conclusion that the state's attorneys can only represent the non-existent legal person because there is no, in fact, any person owned by the Republic of Croatia. This insistence on this terminology, which I think is wrong and not in line with the Law on Commercial Society, can cause and cause certain legal and factual distortions in real life as well. So we're talking in economic terms here, and in a legal sense, it's highly doubtful to me, and I think that in a whole series of laws, and I think we should start with this, these provisions that talk about ownership of companies, that we should change. Furthermore, for this debate, I have also applied for the fact that there are certain very serious objections to the conduct, i.e. the failure of the state's attorney's office to act in public, so when we talk about the problem of solving criminal charges. In particular, Article 68 of this Law on State Attorney's Office prescribes that the decision to apply for criminal offences is therefore to be conducted on a regular basis within the time limit laid down in the Criminal Procedure Act or in another law. This provision therefore points to other laws, but other laws do not, in my opinion, do so in a sufficiently good and clear and specific way. First of all, the first and most important law to regulate the topic is the CAP. Therefore, Article 217(1) of that Law provides that a State lawyer is therefore required to bring a warrant for the conduct of an investigation within 90 days of the date of enrolment of the application to the register, in so far as the criminal acts for which the investigation is to be carried out are concerned. In this way, we could conclude firsthand that the application must be decided in a regular procedure. However, although a decision-making obligation exists to interpret the law, we come to the conclusion that this is essentially an instructive time-limit. And after the expiry of that deadline, there are essentially no procedural and legal obstacles to not launching the investigation later or later, or absolutely, in particular no procedural and legal assumptions to be made directly without the initiation of the investigation. Such an opinion situation is not good, it is not good in the first place for applicants of criminal charges because its criminal application hangs in the air and contributes to a sense of legal uncertainty and ineffectiveness of the law enforcement body. Furthermore, I do not think that such a situation is good for the persons against whom criminal charges are filed, because then this application hangs as some kind of damocular sword and as an unresolved situation, damages the reputation of that person and his normal life and performs certain activities if he performs it. That there is no fixed mandatory time limit for action, but that the criminal application procedure is possible until the expiry of the limitation period confirms the provision of Article 55. The CAP, which prescribes that the state's attorney is obliged, so within 8 days when it finds that there are no grounds for prosecution under official duty to inform the injured so that he can submit, so that he can act as a private prosecutor. This would mean if such reporting had not yet been established whether or not the persecution existed, that the situation in relation to the criminal liability of the person against whom the criminal application was filed was even higher, unsecured, unresolved. I therefore believe that, perhaps even in these amendments and additions to the law, it is necessary to consider introducing provisions that would prescribe a certain mandatory deadline within which the State's attorney's office would be obliged to decide whether, according to the current state of the file, there is a basis for the prosecution of a criminal offence for which it is being prosecuted under official duty and then to make an appropriate reasoned solution which would then be available to the public. Different, for example, written against a reduced criminal procedure. In a shortened criminal procedure pursuant to Article 68(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Law on the State's Attorney's Office shall be bound by the State's attorney, so within 6 months of the entry of the criminal application, to make a decision on the criminal application. I believe that the deadlines should also be set in a similar way when it comes to the regular procedure. In doing so, there would be no argument that there is a danger, therefore there would be no argument that there is a risk of an effective conduct of the attorney's office's actions due to a lack of time, to carry out all actions. Because, for example, in the investigation, deadlines can be extended under certain conditions and therefore, such a provision could also be stated when we talk about deciding whether to initiate an investigation or to reject a criminal application. The decision on a criminal offence would not, within a certain period, mean that, if there is later knowledge of the facts that justify the initiation of an investigation or the prosecution of that action, it would not be possible to carry out. So, here I wouldn't have come to take into account the appropriate principles of not bis and I'm going to, but in relation to the current factual situation, I say closing down a certain questionable situation. Now, in my view, we have a situation that has not been clear for years since criminal charges were filed whether a reasonable suspicion that a crime was committed exists or not. In the present situation, I must now conclude in public there is a suspicion that certain criminal charges are speculated, that there they are kept in the drawer until circumstances are clear that are not legally relevant for the decision to reject criminal charges, i.e. the initiation of investigations and the prosecution. Therefore, my suspicions arises that, depending on, therefore, the rationalisation of these legally inadequate circumstances is initiated by a particular act or the conduct of a delay is continued and continued until there is a statute of persecution. Whether this doubt corresponds to the truth or not to the creation of a climate that enables such a doubt to exist in society at all is not good and that opinion should be taken on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39823	Thank you. And another colleague, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39824	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In this debate, I was offered a part of a sentence by Mr. Minister who said that this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office would contribute to protecting the state budget. The best state budget shall be protected if it takes care of the property of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the form in which it was conducted, either in cash claims or in real estate or in equity shares. However, we have so far had the chance to see, unfortunately, in recent years, that negligence and irresponsibility are not unknown words when it comes to the concern of state property. On one occasion, the President of the Parliament Mr. Leco here said that it is not only a problem that the State's Attorney's Office is doing but also that the State's Attorney's Office is not working. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law can contribute to an even more effective concern about the property of the Republic of Croatia, but so far, and not only enables it, but also requires the Constitution of Article 125. A constitution that says the State Attorney's Office is obliged to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. Let's just remember the embarrassing stories about the Ljubljanska banka that has been going on for 23 years. 31.12.1991 found that the savings total foreign exchange were in the Ljubljanska Banka, the main branch of Zagreb, $533m. At that time, the legitimate right of Croatian savings was withdrawn to raise their deposit money from the bank. No one's intervened on that one for 23 years. The Croatian Government's regulation on the conversion of foreign deposits into public debt allowed all savings to transfer their foreign deposits to some domestic banks from Croatia. And it was done so that a total of 338 million was transferred to foreign exchange banks, but $165 million was not transferred by Croatian citizens. The Ljubljanska Banka did not stop being a believer or the Republic of Slovenia, did not stop being a debtor, only the believer was changed. Instead of part of the savings, the believer became the Republic of Croatia. where was the State's Attorney's Office for 20 years when it came to the Republic of Slovenia and the Ljubljanska Banka? How is it possible by the basis of which law, what powers do private banks represent the Republic of Croatia in judicial proceedings? If this is based on the claims taken, it is illegal and impossible because they are not looking for banks but is looking for the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia has rehabilitated banks not only for the amount of the transferred savings but even one bank I think and several hundred million more than it should have. What power of attorney, when no law firm can represent the Republic of Croatia, can represent private banks with foreign ownership? I hope that this law will at least clarify this situation or that it will offer an explanation of such a situation. Where has the State Attorney's Office ever been when the valueless shares of large nominal companies have changed significantly higher values? The state's attorney's office had contradictory views on the forest and the use of forests, when it comes to individual hotels and the use of Croatian property for private purposes, 20 and a few years without any compensation, the State's Attorney's Office is certainly overcrowded with cases and cannot respond to everything that has happened over the past twenty years because it would take 10 such lawyers. But you should know the priority. Without tight interest, the Republic of Croatia is looking for $368m with tight interest rates somewhere today at about 2 billion euros per case alone. What was the role of the State's Attorney's Office when it was a coupon privatisation and the conversion of PIFs into open investment funds in early 2000? where was the State's Attorney's Office when it was visible from the State Audit report that certain hotels had changed ownership instead of the owner of the Republic of Croatia and became private owners for several kunas? Very often in these cases there was a lack of reaction from the State's Attorney's Office. How could it be that after the municipal court's ruling by a private prosecutor that the Republic of Croatia becomes the owner of a part of a bank, the State's Attorney's Office complains of such a decision and does not accept that the Republic of Croatia is the owner of what the court has sentenceed. The easiest thing in years has been to assess the fate of the Republic of Croatia's assets. And colleague Lovrin noted that when the prosecutor of the Republic of Croatia is that he usually loses the dispute. When it's almost a prosecutor, it doesn't usually get slow. I hope and support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the State's Attorney's Office to raise the protection of the Republic of Croatia's assets to a higher level and to contribute to all but most of the State's Attorney's Office because it is its constitutional obligation. Times passed when nothing should have been known, and the fate of the Republic of Croatia could have been predicted. The easiest thing was to be a prophet in assessing the fate of Croatian claims, the claim of the Republic of Croatia. Just being a pessimist was enough. I wouldn't want to be pessimistic and in the future when it comes to the property of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39825	Thank you very much. The Republic has Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39826	Thank you very much. Since you spoke about the Ljubljanska banka and the savings of the Ljubljanska banka in your first part of the exhibition, then the practice that is being conducted in almost all banks today is amazing, almost everyone will be spared, but whoever is dealing with the bank has to file a lawsuit with the State's Attorney's Office or I don't know who. Here's a 100 grand loan I won't speak the name of the bank on purpose, 3.5% credit processing or 3.5%. That goes into your total mass, so 103.5 and then 6.99% interest goes to that instead of 3.5 thousand credit processing, it goes to 5.5 thousand later, given that it's entered into the total debt mass. Furthermore, the notice that you have nothing on the gyro budget costs 20 kuna. Transferring any amount of money from one jury to another costs 10 kuna. So, banks, and you were talking about Ljubljana have created an amazing one framework of business in which they simply rob Croatia, I must say literally, it is not an injury to economic business, it is a clean robbery of Croatian citizens and Croatian peoples. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39827	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39828	Thank you very much, dear colleague Grubisic. You've moved a little bit away from the original subject, but I'm going to stick to the State's Attorney's Office Act. It's true and it's a special story of the business of banks in Croatia, but here I'm going to stick to the part that you were talking about the Ljubljanska banka. The fact is that in Croatia, 144 thousand Croatian citizens are asking the Ljubljanska Banka. The fact that the Republic of Croatia is not protected when it comes to looking for $368 million without accounting interest in 23 years from the Ljubljana Bank of the main branch of Zagreb. And the fact that you, the protection of interest cannot work on behalf of the Republic of Croatia Business Bank. But with us and the ministers, they don't know which courts are being held, and who represents the Republic of Croatia in these disputes. I asked the current minister at which court and who represented the Republic of Croatia I was responsible for not knowing. Well, he kept secrets about it today. So I would also like to hear from Mr. Minister who represents it to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which it represents the Republic of Croatia and where courts are being held disputed against the Bank of Ljubljana and the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39829	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39830	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorney's Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 368. The debate on the text of the final draft law is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the proposing representative to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Vice-President of the Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39831	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. The Government proposes amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneys, in accordance with Article 16, which is Article 80a in paragraphs 3 and 5 of the Law in such a way that it is stated: the data and instructions for representation are clear and precise by stating that the content of the data that the national authorities representing the State's attorney is obliged to deliver, which are indications of the facts of the action or proposal, the evidence proposals, the documentation available to the body on the basis of the request. In paragraph 5, they would suggest that the words: it is mandatory, to replace the words: they can thus enable a decision to be taken on their own by the State's attorney, which is in accordance with their function.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39832	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia No. 1. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 77 votes in favour and 25 abstentions, have adopted Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and is becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39833	Thank you very much. Amendment 2 concerns the addition of Article 61, which regulates the entry into force, i.e. the application of these amendments which we previously discussed in Amendment 1, so that these amendments would apply to the items which start after the entry into force of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39834	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no need to argue. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 78 votes for and 27 abstentions, have adopted Amendment No 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Please, Amendment number three, the Honorable Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39835	Thank you very much. Amendment number three is a nomotechnical character. Since we have changed the order of articles in Amendment 3 we propose to determine that Article 61 becomes Article 62.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39836	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 105 votes in favour and 1 abstention, have adopted Amendment 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are moving to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Deputy Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Amendment No 1 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39837	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39838	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39839	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39840	Amendment No 3 to Article 23
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39841	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39842	Amendment No 4 to Article 36
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39843	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39844	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Explanation on Amendment 1, 2, 3 and 4, nothing, it's got nothing. Thank you very much. We have another amendment to the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, which is Boro Grubisic and Josip Salapic, the club's representatives. I would like to ask the deputy deputy minister to be shown about the amendment of respected representatives Bora Grubisic and Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39845	Thank you very much. Well, the government doesn't accept that amendment because the concept of the law is so complex that it is and now I don't know...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39846	Make up your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39847	Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39848	Thank you very much. An indication of the proposing's representative, please. Dear Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39849	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the argument is quite frankly in the legal context of a bit of total nonsense. The amendment is not in the context of the law. The amendment is in the context of the law because we gave it in accordance with the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, and the reason why we gave it is that our proposal for the law of the HDSSB Club is already full of 6 months. Our amendment refers to the fact that we wanted to restrict the duty of the chief state attorney, not by alluding to the current acting Mr. Bajic, but to future cases that the main state attorney in the Republic of Croatia can only hold two terms of office as chief state attorney. So the reasoning of the law that it's not in the context of the law has absolutely nothing to do with anything, so I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39850	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of respected representatives of Bora Grubisic and the respected representative of Josip Salapic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to a vote on the final draft law. Please state who's in favor of the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. What's the score? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes of 79 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 25 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Let's go to the next one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39851	And now we will discuss - - Final proposal of the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 361; Good-bye, Minister. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of Croatian Labourists, Party of Work colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39852	... Honored Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] This is about the Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Breaks, Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices with the final proposal for a Law with an E-label and something a little more than what the previous law refers to adapting to the European Union regulations. But I couldn't resist, not to point out some illogicalities that were reportedly in the matter of just harmonisation occurred in this law. So we have, for example, the article 4 mentions night labor, or the definition of night labor, which according to this law is that, night work is done between 10:00 and 5:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., respectively. This is contrary to the Labour Act in particular to Article 48. The labour law. I know, I'm aware that in such cases, what's more favourable to the worker is applied. However, in the opening section, it was considered that the provisions of the European Union regulation were not transposed into this bill and we are, for example, entering some part of the Labour Act and the part that is directly contrary to it is listed. There's still some strange ones here for me at least weird ones, I wish there was someone here who could answer me but it's not necessarily right now. The driver’s certificate of activity shall be a certificate issued by a legal or natural person for a period of time until the driver has operated the vehicle. So I'm wondering who needs that certificate at all, for which purposes it can be used, I mean, it's either the missing definition or there's something weird or there's something else that at least I don't get. Then we have in that same article 4, we have points 8 and 9. Point 8. defines working hours, and it taxed everything in the working hours. And the point of the 9th is that it's not all a matter of working hours. So then you have to say at work don't count the time while the driver is available to his employer, so among other things as he rides on the ferry, is the ferry being carried by his vehicle. And let's say it's the opposite of point 8. So in the same article, this law is contradictory. There are some details that I am not sure are even possible in practice, and among other things, the working time schedule chapter, Article 5, says: If a mobile worker performs jobs for different employers. Well, I'm not really sure if it's possible since this is primarily about, about drivers how he can work for two employers, I'm not really sure if this is actually possible. The same article then mentions the employer’s obligation to be obliged by a mobile worker who works with several employers in writing to request a record, a record of working time. But it doesn't explain anything, though, what if that employer doesn't want to give it away. In that case, it turns out, and beware, it's an obligation for workers to deliver it to another employer. Turns out the employee is in violation of something the other employer doesn't want to betray but there's no sanction for that other employer anywhere, so that's kind of weird. The night’s work I once mentioned was also very discriminatory, i.e. Article 7 and the definition of paying for night work, so it says: the fee for night work for mobile workers is paid in accordance with a specific labour regulation, i.e. in accordance with the collective contract, provided that such compensation cannot promote the threat of road safety. Now, this definitely sounds nice. So the collective contract allowed workers to contract greater rights. But on the condition that such compensation should not incentivise road safety threats. That means the worker is stimulated to drive at night more. He can't drive more than he can if his hours are limited. What kind of compensation, I don't think this is the happiest solution to define itself a little weird. Turns out, as soon as he worked nights, he was driving by the night that he was, uh, stimulated to endanger road safety. That's exactly what I believe we can all agree that it doesn't really hold water. Another suggestion of my, Article 27, abolishing public authority is not in the criminal provisions of any point, but I think there is really plenty of room for that part to be processed, i.e. to cover the criminal provisions because it is valid if something is illegal, illegal, and it is not intended for punishment to exist, so it is as if it is not. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39853	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39854	Thank you very much, Vice President, representative of the ministry. Well, here's a proposal for a Working Time Act, mandatory vacations of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport exist. We have it from 2008 and we have a new law on the benches and this new law has rewritten almost everything from that existing law. And instead of having possible amendments and amendments to the law because there were, there were two directives and two regulations adopted in 2009 and 2010 which could then be put into this bill, we have a whole new law in the proposal we don't know why. Here's what I'd like the proposer to explain to us why they went to a new law when 90% of the 2008 provisions are already covered by the previous law and are also in this law. However, given that the European law is us in the HDZ Club, we will support it because it is also very important. It is important with two aspects and social and security, as it is adopted to improve the working conditions of mobile workers, raise the level of road safety, equalise the conditions of competition in transport activities and improve the supervision of commercial transport. It regulates working hours and mandatory committees of mobile workers on road transport, driving times of drivers carrying out road transport of passengers and freight. The area of tachographs is regulated, the work of workshops for the tasks of checking and reviewing, installation, testing, and repair and disassembly of tachographs, control procedures, the authority's jurisdiction over law enforcement as well as criminal and criminal provisions are prescribed. We need to know that this is a very important law because it refers to nearly 50,000 vehicles that have built-in tachographs. Which means we've got 50, somewhere around 50,000 drivers driving heavy motor vehicles and buses. Of course, there are also a large number of small businessmen who do not have tachographs but also those vehicles are operated by drivers. Some drivers drive us 300 hours a month. These are facts that need to be corrected and such a bill. Surely if you were to literally comply with what is written and carried out by both the police and the inspection, of course you would find room for possible new jobs. And since we have over 8,000 drivers at the employment office, it is clear that, literally, by applying this law which has brought much more security in road transport over the past four years, much more and the rights of workers, I could say for new jobs. However, this Law is a little strangely written, as noted by counterpart Novak, because in some provisions, for example, he dropped almost all the exceptions we had from the previous one. We had exceptions that applied to driving times, driving breaks, daily and weekly vacations. That was article 17 at the time, and he was referring to justifiably justified exceptions. On vehicles used for agricultural and forestry activities within a radius of up to 50 km from the loading site to the unloading site. Vehicles used for training drivers and tests in order to obtain a driving licence or certificate of professional training provided they are not used for commercial freight or passenger transport. He was referring to specialized vehicles for the transport of circus equipment and entertainment parks. Specially equipped vehicles whose purpose is education in a state of rest, etc. Bibles or libraries. It refers to specialised vehicles for the transport of money and value, vehicles used exclusively on roads within traffic facilities such as ports and railway terminals, vehicles used to transport live animals from holdings to local markets and back or from markets to local slaughterhouses within 50 km, vehicles used to collect milk from agricultural holdings. The Article of the 18th Act that you have amended has been applied to its provisions and to the internal transport of passengers on lines of a total distance of up to 50km. You've erased it all in this bill of law. We don't know why, and I'm sorry that you haven't spoken to the Ministry as a representative and said why we're removing something that's clear and unequivocal in practice and of course there's a different status for bus drivers, heavy truck drivers and cargo drivers. You are introducing a third head, driving time, driving interruptions and documentation. The two articles tabled by the two EU Commission regulations and then referred to in Article 11 here I will now read it which reads "A collective agreement and other agreements between the social partners can determine more favourable conditions of driving time, driving time, daily and weekly breaks than those prescribed by this law in order to protect their health and safety by not reducing the overall level of protection of workers". You list daily and weekly holidays that this law does not mention at all except in criminal provisions. The previous 2008 law has been elaborated precisely on what it is to be a daily committee, which is a regular daily vacation, a shortened daily vacation and a daily vacation for a member of a multi-member crew. We don't see it in this law except in criminal provisions means where the penalties are prescribed. Every employer, and many of them who are engaged in transportation from this bill, find out what we learned from what we learned from 2008. How much time do we have? Average driver working hours 48 hours a week. Not more than 60 hours, if the average weekly working hours have not been exceeded for the past 4 months. The weekly working hours of a mobile worker who works for several employers give a sum of working hours to all employers if they are satisfied with these provisions of 48 or 60 hours. We have a definition of the total operating time if mobile workers perform nighttime work he must not be longer than 10 hours within each 24-hour period. That's what we had in the 2008 law. The law also clearly lists the breaks. The flats of at least 30 minutes at the latest after 6 hours of continuous work and if the total working hours are between 6 and 9 hours. A stop of at least 45 minutes at the latest after 6 hours of continuous work and if the total sum of the early hours is more than 9 hours. And we have shorter breaks than 15 minutes that can be used multiple times during working hours. No parts relating to the daily committee have been processed anywhere, and I shall mention them once more except in criminal provisions. Unfortunately, we in the Assembly do not have an EU regulation committee, we do not know what it says, and we should read it from the criminal provisions. How's that gonna work out management in transport companies? They are obliged by the basis of this law to educate drivers on working time and mandatory vacations of mobile workers, organise the work and award of mobile workers in accordance with legal provisions, educate drivers and operational management on the use of tachographs. They are also mandatory to the carrier if there are no tachographs installed in the vehicle to submit certain actions. They are the mandatory transmission of data from vehicles that have a digital tachograph and the obligation to store documentation and establish a driver’s work record. Get mobile workers archived. They shall be obliged to produce and possess the transporter's memory cards in the case of use of a digital tachograph and, of course, to cooperate with inspection and other services in the surveillance procedures. We've been entering an area that's been in use for almost 5 years, it's nothing new or a memory card or a digital tachograph, etc. as well as the procedures for checking on the road, almost 30% of the total number of working days checked, and 50% is checked on the part of the company's premises. I think that all the inconclusiveness of this law is then summed up in the last article that speaks of entry into force. And then he says that article 58. "This law shall enter into force on the 8th day of its publication in the NN other than Articles 1 to 55, and Article 57, which shall enter into force on the date of accession of the EU Republic of Croatia", which means that, based on this law, we have only one article in force, and that is Article 56 in transitional provisions relating to two regulations or better said to me practically 20 days within the 6 months, we do not have a valid law if I read it well in view of how it reads here. I think it was quite unnecessary that we could then pass this law on the eve of joining the EU and put it on notice when we enter rather than exempt from the provision of all the articles of this law, leave only one with two regulations to ask ourselves, in the end, whether we have a law that is valid at all. I think we don't have an article in this provision. Here's what I'd like the Proposer to explain to us. I will ask him once again why we don't have a story about regular daily holidays, how many vacations you have, how short your daily vacation, how long it takes, and how long a daily vacation of a member of a multi-member crew to make certain things from this law clear to us, and he is just not the law to be discussed with two debates because it refers to a very demanding part of the Croatian economy, which is transport companies and are very much interested in what the state is preparing for them on the day of entry into the EU. and are very keenly interested in what the state is preparing for them on the day of their entry into the European Union. In this way, we may be witnessing a lack of seriousness in preparation. I don't know what the Government Legislative Office is doing that releases laws like this. Not perceiving what they're bringing at a certain point, but I'm saying, since this is P.Z.E. The law, we must eventually, no matter how many objections it is to him, we will have to support him. But we also expect your testimony as a proponent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39855	Thank you. Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39856	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, I agree with you that this is a very important law and about safety and traffic, of course, and fast on the health of those who participate in it, but I noticed one claim that stuck to my ear where you were talking about those specialized milk-delivery vehicles from the farm, we, those tanks that we see increasingly less and less naturally in our rural environments. And I have a question about which farms, when thousands and thousands of them failed, when 10 to 15 fell every day, when the production of milk fell and fell daily. So they won't need specialized vehicles, of course even less tachographs. And those who participate in that traffic will end up on, and increase this 375 thousand figure. And now, another thing that intrigues me even more in some way, which is, it's about harmonising with the regulation, you're saying, I can't get that much professionally into that part, this part and that part. And I want to compare, so there is a regulation of 261 the European Union which says needs to strengthen the position of milk producers. He needs a farmer, a Croatian peasant, to provide an adequate standard of living. So here you can do anything, only the Croatian peasant doesn't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39857	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39858	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, I agree with that, which is why I specifically cited the part that we had in the 2008 Law that was completely deleted and was referring to exemptions from certain modes of transportation which were not then covered by driving times, driving interruptions, daily and weeks of rest. As we started with these family economies, with farms etc., it is obvious that these exceptions should no longer be because such drivers are no longer available, there are no specialized then vehicles, not just on farms. We have ports or railway terminals here. We have other activities that have been excluded, but here we do not know why they are now left all in the same criteria or in some sort of... The rules and we know that they are not engaged in activities or in the way buses or carriers of heavy trucks and heavy loads do already deal with specialised activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we here in the Parliament, given the lack of information, we can just conclude what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39859	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39860	The final proposal of the Working Time Act, the mandatory vacations of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 361. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the proposer, Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Zdenko Antesic to take note of the proposed amendments. Amendment No 1 to Articles 12, 26 and 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39861	The Proposer accepts the amendment, i.e. accepts all amendments of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39862	They become an integral part of the law. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? My colleague Hodzic is for, uh, abstention? My colleague Hodzic? I'm asking for a result. I find the law passed unanimously with 115 votes in favour, along with the proposed and accepted amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39863	We will discuss - - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 369; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Mr. Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39864	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Assembly, MPs and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Foreign Affairs that we are harmonising with the acquis of the European Union. The additions concern the provision of diplomatic consular protection to the citizens of the European Union of one Member State of the European Union by diplomatic consular offices of other Member States. It is only the additions of the Law, therefore, not the amendments because no article or article of the existing law is deleted or amended. However, new articles shall be added after Article 14 and Article 15. Let me remind you, by the provision of Article 23. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that every citizen of the European Union in the territory of a third country in which a Member State of the European Union whose nationality he is does not have a representative office shall be entitled to protection by the diplomatic and consular authorities of any Member State. On the same terms as the citizens of that country. The general rule is then further regulated in the framework of the European Union, in two legal acts, which are the decision of the Representatives of the Government of the Member States, which was taken at the Council meeting on 19 December 95, on the protection of the citizens of the European Union in diplomatic and consular representations as well as the decision of the representatives... , a member who was adopted in the Council on 25 June 96 and refers to the establishment of an emergency travel document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first decision lays down consular functions to be provided to nationals of another Member State and provides for conditions under which a diplomatic mission and consular office of one EU Member State may lend a monetary loan to a national of another Member State. Since there is no law on foreign affairs, the current law provides for a provision that regulates the conditions of granting a money loan to a Croatian citizen has also come up with the need to regulate the issue in relation to Croatian citizens. Therefore, in addition to harmonising with the provisions of the 95 decisions relating to the provision of consular protection and assistance and the exceptional lending of money to a citizen of another Member State of the European Union, the conditions under which a monetary loan may be granted to a Croatian citizen are laid down. The second decision lays down the conditions under which the European emergency travel document for return to the country is issued to nationals of other Member States of the European Union. This right applies only to citizens of the European Union, meaning other countries, because for Croatian citizens, our diplomatic missions and consular offices will continue to issue a Croatian passport. When it comes to the text of the law itself, the following are added. Article 1a sets out the decisions to be coordinated with, these are the two decisions I mentioned earlier. Following Article 14, two new articles concerning Croatian citizens are added. In principle, Article 14a provides for the possibility for citizens of the Republic of Croatia to seek consular protection and assistance as citizens of the EU Member State, both in the diplomatic mission and in the consular office of another EU Member State under the conditions prescribed by their national legislation. Similarly, the conditions under which returning to the Republic of Croatia is facilitated are prescribed, i.e. giving a monetary loan to a national of the Republic of Croatia who is in difficulty abroad, and such a request shall address the diplomatic mission or the consular office of the Republic of Croatia. Today, in the debate at the Committee on Croatians abroad, there was one suggestion regarding Article 14b, paragraph 2, which is that the term postponement in the second indent, which says the postponement of the return could cause serious consequences for its interests, replace the word delay. After consulting the linguists, I think we can accept the proposal of the Croatian Committee abroad. The following supplement is added in Article 15 of the new article on how to provide consular protection to EU citizens. In principle, it is determined that protection will be provided as appropriate to the 9 decisions, and then aid in the event of a serious accident or serious illness, assistance in the event of detention or arrest, assistance to victims of violent criminal offences, assistance and... citizens of EU Member States in distress. These are consular services which generally do not endure delays and should be implemented immediately. Article 4.zakon provides that the foreign minister here will follow the termology of the '96 law, we know that today the minister will adopt it within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law of implementing rules. The Implementing Regulation will be a regulation which will specify in more detail the contents of the document which obliges citizens to return the loan after the conditions for determining particularly justified cases, when the Secretary-General of the Ministry can make a decision on the partial or full release of the obligation to repay the loan and the procedural rules on the way in which the decision is measured with which we comply. Article 5 of the Law provides that the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU will enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39865	I thank Deputy Klisovic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We'll start at the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Gordan Jandrokovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39866	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law on these amendments. But before that, I would like to say that when I saw in the additions to the agenda that the Foreign Affairs Act was going on, I hoped that most of my colleagues would have a comprehensive text, given that it was new circumstances for Croatia to become a full member of the EU, that this would probably change the formation of the ministry, that certain functions that have so far been located in some other places in the Government would be located in the foreign ministry, some of them from the ministry in some other state bodies. Since there has been a draft law for more than two years, and it goes according to the third year we expected that together with the Law on Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government, we would get a new Law on Foreign and European Affairs in European Affairs. Unfortunately, this has not happened, so here is a useful opportunity to ask the deputy minister what is happening to this law whether it is planned to be in a near future and in front of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We regret that the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government only now a month before joining the EU actually comes to our benches. We started preparing it for the Committee on European Integration, then suddenly the law was found in the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which suddenly became the holder of the law, so it was a mess. I hope that this confusion will not lead to problems in the adoption of this law because without it we cannot function as a full member of the EU but we are sorry at the HDZ Representatives' Club that we have not worked on it more efficiently and efficiently. But what is here on our part is we will try as hard as possible to make a constructive contribution to the adoption of this law in order to be effective but even though so to help the Croatian Parliament and strengthen its role not only as a control mechanism but as a body that will play an active role in the European policies of the Republic of Croatia. As far as concrete legislation is concerned, as I said, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support it. This is actually a visible, concrete, positive novelty concerning the Republic of Croatia and our citizens because consular services will be able to seek assistance in missions to diplomatic and consular missions of EU member states in each country where the Republic of Croatia does not have its diplomatic consular representation and therefore it is certainly about improving the legal security of our citizens in other and third countries. I am also sure knowing the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs that the services in charge of this problem at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia are ready and capacitated to implement this law, so I believe that we too will be the ones who, if necessary, will naturally assist other citizens of EU member states. I am glad that here we are slowly harmonising our documents and in this problem regarding foreign and European affairs. And in this segment, certainly, the Croatian Democratic Community will, with its experience, with the knowledge that we have gained through the negotiation process, seek to help the Government as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39867	I thank the esteemed Jandrokovic. I call on my colleague, Melita Mulic, to present the SDP Club's views.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39868	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. As the Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs has said, before us, the proposal for a law on the addition of the law on foreign affairs. And I will remind you that the current and applicable law on foreign affairs has been in force since 1996, so HDZ's government has been at least 17 years old and such the last 8 years to change the law. Given the announcements of the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia that it is very soon going into the procedure of a changed and complete, brand-new Foreign Affairs Act, the SDP Club is just backing this announcement because indeed if you have one law for 17 years and many things have changed, then it is high time to get it. Although this is about legal harmonisation, I will take this opportunity to clarify some things about the concept of European citizenship, because these additions to the Law on Foreign Affairs concern certain segments of this, and this year the European Commission marks the European Year of Citizenship. Why is that so important? Because it is important in the context of Croatia's entry into the European Union as well as the positive consequences that will affect Croatian citizens and citizens because we often ask ourselves what it brings us. Similarly, citizens of the Member States of the European Union are not sufficiently informed about this. So, the very concept of European citizenship as defined by the Maastricht Treaty, the new Institute of European Law. And so far he's been completely unknown in international law. It does not replace the national concept of citizenship but complements it. One of the things that European citizens, i.e. citizens, have the possibility and tomorrow and Croatia are right to diplomatic or consular protection on the territory where the state, where the Republic of Croatia does not have its own network of diplomatic consular representations. But some other rights such as this right also enters the concept of European citizenship and the right to free movement and residence in the territory of the Member States, the right to petition the European Parliament, the right to complain to the European Ombudsman and also the right to address the institutions of the European Union in the Croatian language and to receive answers from these same institutions in Croatian. Since Croatia's legislation The Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs is in line with the fundamental documents of the European Union, which is also our obligation to sign the accession treaty or its entry into force. Therefore, since these amendments to the Law allow Croatian citizens and citizens to enjoy these rights, but in accordance with the national laws of the Member States of the European Union, this law applies to the citizens themselves, the Member States of the European Union and will therefore support this Act. Which actually means that in practice. The date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the Croatian diplomatic mission and the consular office could therefore, with a request for consular assistance and protection, be addressed by a citizen of another member of the European Union. In this context, there is a need for a clearer determination of consular functions that can be provided by the Croatian diplomatic mission to the citizen of another Member State of the European Union. We have 73 diplomatic consular offices, and I don't include honorary consuls and various missions around the world. And for example, one of them where they are, of course, opening up, where we have Croatian emigration, so in countries where the Croats have emigrated over the decades or even centuries, where we have particularly significant economic, cultural and political ties. One of these is, say, Chile, and if a citizen of any other Member State who does not have his resident embassy in Chile finds himself in Chile, our diplomatic consular mission is to provide him with assistance but also to give him financial assistance in case he loses his passport, i.e. basic documents and money. Since our diplomatic consular representations could not provide assistance to Croatian citizens if they were left without money and found themselves in the world this proposal complements the law and that legal void. So, apart from protecting citizens and giving them the possibility of financial assistance with the return of these financial assistance to citizens of the Member States of the European Union, they will also have the right to do so by Croatian citizens. These things, therefore, when it comes to the criteria themselves, have granted monetary loans in the draft law, it is defined that the Internal Regulation of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs will help to regulate and define these criteria more closely, and we also support the announcement that they will be shorter by 30 days. As I have already pointed out it delights us and we welcome the announcement of a new Law on Foreign Affairs,... We will also support these proposed additions to the Foreign Affairs Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39869	Thank you. It is next to the HNS Club and the esteemed colleague Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy. The Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will support this proposal to amend the Law on Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act. We have yet another law that brings us closer to working together and working with all other members of the European Union. The rights of all EU citizens are equated, and so can the Republic of Croatia, and I can say freely that this law also increases citizens' freedoms of the Republic of Croatia. The process of Croatia's EU accession was very long and very difficult but made Croatia a better and more efficient state, and its institutions more efficient and credible. In a month and three days from today, Croatia is under way to the 28th EU member, and it is a great credit or credit to Croatian citizens who, if I may say so, have exhausted the most institutional and legal changes, but I am also convinced that Croatian citizens will benefit the most from Croatia's entry into the EU. We are entering the community of the richest and most socially developed countries in the world. The law confirming the contract between all EU Member States and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia prescribed that the Treaty on the legal system of the Republic of Croatia would take over the original Union contracts. The provision of Article 23 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU prescribed that every EU citizen in the territory of a third country whose EU Member State does not have a national representative has the right to protection by diplomatic and consular authorities of any Member State under the same conditions as nationals of that State. So on the day of accession of the EU Republic of Croatia to the diplomatic mission and consular offices, a request for consular assistance and protection could be addressed by citizens of another EU Member State. Therefore, there is a need for a clear determination of consular functions that can be provided by the Croatian diplomatic mission and consular office to the citizen of another EU Member State. The entry into force of this law will bring the Croatian legislation into line with the EU acquis in the area concerning the need for the accession of diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia to the requirements of citizens of other EU Member States for consular protection and assistance. This will provide consular protection to all those who ask for it from our offices and assist the citizen of another EU Member State. This law also prescribes the conditions under which a diplomatic mission and consular office of one EU Member State can lend a money loan to a citizen of another Member State. Also under the conditions prescribed by this Decision, a European emergency return passport will be issued to citizens of other EU Member States. In this law, it facilitates and simplifies the life of all EU citizens and so does the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39871	Thank you. The HDSSB club's position will be presented by respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. As the vice president has already said, we should hear the HDSSB's views, so there is nothing to be said except that we will adopt the law in this proposed form or addition of the law. It is clear that the EU is a certain community of 28 states and that every country in its consular office will help a natural person who is in trouble or in need of the protection of the consular representation of any of the EU Member States that do not exist and, let's say for themselves, if it is not the Croatian consular representation or vice versa if there is no Croatian consular representation. It is clear that it is the reciprocity of all Member States and there are conditions or situations under which this is happening. So in Article 15a, this is aid in the event of a death, aid in the event of serious accident, serious illness, in the event of arrest or arrest, assistance to victims of violent criminal offences, assistance and repatriation of EU citizens in distress, loss of passport or disappearance of passport. When each of the consular offices is issued a European emergency passport for return to the country from where it originates, so that a lot of speech and reading of what is written here has nothing to say and clearly that the HDSSB Club will adopt this proposal for a law supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39873	That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. A respected colleague, Andrej Plenkovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39874	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. As regards today's proposal to amend the law on the completion of the Foreign Affairs Act, I think I must join the position of my colleague Jandrokovic, who on behalf of the club, spoke of expectations for the full amendment of the Foreign Affairs Act, especially now only thirty days before EU membership and since we know that we have been working on a new draft of the Foreign Affairs Act for several years now and that this may have been an opportunity for this law not only to put this harmonisation with two decisions relating to consular issues on the agenda of the Croatian Assembly. I think it is important to recognise the concrete benefits of this amendment to the law, and above all, EU membership brings for Croatian citizens. The fact that it is a diplomatic network of the Republic of Croatia, we can say it freely at a global level of medium size. The consular protection provided by our diplomatic missions and consular offices is also solid given the size of the Republic of Croatia. However, with membership in the European Union, we are in a more favourable situation for our citizens no matter where they are. In fact, several large Member States of the European Union have adopted the policy of the so-called ‘EU’. universal diplomatic presence. These are large member states that have a diplomatic network practically in all countries of the world. So far, we have been able to negotiate bilateral agreements that some of those countries that are present in those countries where we do not provide adequate consular assistance to our citizens in situations that are often caused by some kind of war, crisis situations, the need for repatriation. We have witnessed several times in recent times of crisis situations where Croatia either had diplomatic representations or had closed the need for a specific engagement for Croatian citizens was still very present from Syria, so Libya after closing and similar situations. This, this legal framework provides one certainty to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of which country, at any time and any crisis on any continent, are located. And that's one big added value to consular protection. So far, we are dealing with this crisis management beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia quite ad hoc. The fact is that we will also have to develop much more stable, more regular communication with those countries that operate in crisis management beyond their borders for 7 days a week 24 hours a day. We have done it with a lot of effort so far, I thank a number of colleagues in the service of foreign affairs who have done great tasks and helped Croatian citizens in several previous situations because we rarely have the opportunity to mention it in the Croatian Assembly and I think they certainly deserve it. And that is why I believe that these changes are about protecting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and protecting the citizens of the European Union where we have representations, perhaps some members do not have what is also the case with some smaller Member States. And I think that Croatia will also be able to contribute to the consular protection of these several precisely mentioned cases in the indents of the new Article 15 of the Foreign Affairs Act. However, what I would also like to point out today with this general observation that it would be good to have a new Foreign Affairs Act as soon as possible on the table is another issue also related to membership in the European Union, which is a question of state officials' status and Croatian diplomats in case they are seconded to the institutions of the European Union. I think this is a question where there's practically one legal void at the moment. The Foreign Affairs Act on such an opportunity, since it has not said anything since 1996. As far as I am aware, the only legal provision that is referred to the possibility of working outside the state service is Article 81(1) in international organisations. Law on civil servants. However, I think it is a new circumstance and the circumstance is membership in the European Union and the fact that Croatia will second people here is very clear and in the cabinet of the future member of the European Commission that we do not speak to other European Union institutions. I think we need to find and define a much more precise legal basis than the one that exists here. And my opinion is that it would be very good to do so before membership to regulate their working legal status since no one goes there forever and they have all chosen the path of state service as their career path. And I don't think it would be a good idea now to make solutions based solely on a contractual agreement between employees and institutions. It is that we need an entirely legal solution that will then allow for a kind of career mobility not only at this time but in the future where many countries have seconded a number of their employees to the institutions of the European Union, they would return, go to other international organisations. I think it is now an opportunity to regulate this problem in a comprehensive way which I am sure is already being put before the Ministry and Secretariat leadership which requires me to have a very precise and clear legal basis that will also help the international positioning of the Republic of Croatia because we are in a phase that we now need a precise policy of staff planning in international organisations. That's one topic we've been discussing in tight circles over the past few years. However, if we look at the results of everything that happened in terms of positioning at the highest levels, more personal and less systematic happened. And now that we are rounding the international position of the Republic of Croatia, I think it is good to resolve the legal basis above all, and after one systematic planning and then also engagements, political contacts, lobbying creates one network of Croatian international officials who will surely, in their activities, fulfil their responsibilities and regularly in the interest of the organisation or mission on which they are aware, be of additional value to the international positioning of the Republic of Croatia. And here we are, as my colleague Jandrokovic said, we will support this small amendment of the law since it is necessary, although these two decisions have been made since the mid-1990s, but it is logical that this was the time when after the Maastricht Treaty, co-operation between the Member States in the area of consular protection and in some way the activities of the second and third pillars of the EU were combined, and I think it is a good thing that even now the Foreign Affairs Act is adapted to these new circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39875	To this exhibition we have reported a single replica of respected colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will agree with you that it is necessary to adopt a new Foreign Affairs Act, since the scope of the matter covered by the law cannot be resolved within a short period of time. I believe that from those indications that the first Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Vesna Pusic, as foreign and European affairs minister, has given us the impression that we can really expect one law that will fully solve the matter of the Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs Act. But you moved me to this replica the moment you said you would support small changes within this law. I think that when you talk about the direct benefit for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that is obtained from this supplement, we are not talking about changes here, as the deputy minister said, but about the additions because we are just introducing new laws and so far we are not changing anything in the law, I think that by entering Article 14.b which is directly about helping Croatian citizens in a situation where they are in trouble to ensure their return to the Republic is not a small change, it is not a small thing. For example, I would be happy if something like this had happened earlier because we who are members of the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia know very well that such situations in the world have a day. We also know that there are families that are doing tragedies that couldn't return to Croatia for insufficient travel-card funding or for travel-correction, that perhaps the rest of the others under quotes I will say "hidden in the overseas countries". And I think that when we talk about these changes we should certainly say that these are major changes that will give protection to our citizens, which will allow families who may have experienced a tragedy in the world to return to Croatia as Croatian citizens and continue to live here normally. I believe that this is a major change and that because of such major changes and these changes that will bring coverage through the DKP members and EU members for all Croatian citizens who do not have where we do not have our DKP is indeed a matter to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39877	Now, this replica will be answered by a respected colleague, Plenkovic, who was misabsorbed as Jandrokovic, but it was unintentional.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39878	Yeah, well, let's do this last name thing, I think it's a lapus, but it seems to me that fellow Posavec the Sinner might not have listened to my whole exposure. I have just stressed that these are major changes and will be of great benefit to all Croatian citizens wherever they are due to the universal presence of the diplomatic networks of the Member States. And there is no dilemma that they are in a substantive sense and in terms of the achievement of the protection of the right above all consular protection, and then some other cases particularly repatriation in crisis situations are extremely large. I have used the word small changes in the sense that we only change two articles of the Foreign Affairs Act on the context of the wider multi-annual discussion of the need for full amendments to the law. So this was not about the extent of the protection of rights but rather about the nomotechnical approach of a fragmentary amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act which at the moment, the Deputy Minister himself said, when, due to the consistency of their colleagues today, the Minister left his word in one of the new legal articles to the conclusion that they followed the text of '96. And you've been working for as long as I can remember in the service of foreign affairs, so you remember really now, so let's have 15 years of debates on any changes to this law, but in principle we agree on the useful and extensive changes to this law, I believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39879	Thank you. The final minutes of this debate belong to Deputy Foreign and European Affairs Minister Josko Klisuovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39880	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs. First of all, I'd like to thank the club's representatives for supporting the additions to the Foreign Affairs Act. Two questions were asked, one was the full Law on Foreign Affairs and other secondaryities in international organisations including the EU. As far as the whole law is concerned, so what we had to do today to 1.7 is these additions to the law we proposed that you supported in the debate and it was necessary to do so until 1.7. The whole text of the law wasn't necessary until 1.7, but we're working on it, and that's what we didn't send up to 1.7 to do less intensively. This is one complex law that includes regulating the full service of foreign affairs and foreign affairs systems as well as the mass of other things that are of the citizens' interest, such as the one you discussed today. The entire text of the law I believe will be delivered to the Parliament at the fall session so that as soon as you get back from your vacation, you can start discussing it. We all know that this '96 law, you mentioned it in force, and we also know that 15 as Agent Plenkovic said about it we are discussing its need to bring new and real from 2000 to 2000, as far as I know we are constantly talking about new laws, there have been a lot of new drafts and we are in the making of the latest draft that we really want to embrace this matter using our experience from the twenty-year work practically as diplomacy, but also the experience of other European countries to do something that really fits the conditions in which we will soon find ourselves, and these are the conditions of EU membership, and we certainly have consulted the last draft of the law that was made two years ago. But I'm saying, no one's put the law in the process yet, and I hope we do it in the fall this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39881	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39882	Final draft law supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 369. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favor of the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that, unanimously with 106 votes, the Law on the Supplements of the Foreign Affairs Act is adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39883	We are now moving to the next item of the agenda - The Annual Financial Report of the HBOR 2012 About the report will be discussed on the basis of Article 22. HBOR law. You received the material in the boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The esteemed president of the HBOR Board, Mr Anton Kovacev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39884	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. I will try briefly to present these annual financial reports that have been audited and the audit carried out by Deloit. The auditor expressed a positive opinion on the financial reports, which means that financial reports represent objectively the financial position, performance of business and monetary flows of the HBOR and HBOR groups. As regards the financial indicators themselves, the total net assets amounted to 25 billion kuna and 767 million kuna at the end of 2012, total capital or capital of 8 billion kuna 111 million, total revenues of 985 million kuna and total expenditures of 851 million kuna. So we finished 2012 business year with 134 million kuna profits. I must stress that for the sake of the obligation to allocate sound insurance of political and commercial risks to exports we had to establish HKO, so Croatian Credit Insurance and therefore form the HBOR group. I also stress that HKO accounts for only 0.2% of the activity of the parent society, i.e. the HBOR group, and I will continue to present the data for HBOR itself because I say HKO's impact is only 0.2% on the parent society's activity. Therefore, as regards HBOR, the total assets or net assets in the old term are 25 billion 763 million kuna and have registered a growth of 17% compared to the previous year in order to withdraw the funds of the domestic trade union credit for the liquidity needs of the economy of 3 billion and 400 million kuna, therefore for the economic development programme, the liquidity programme. The acquisition of the remaining stake in a dependent society, so by 2012, we were 51% owner of HKO, in '12. We took over the 100% stake in the HKO group and it was paid 2.3 million euros to the Austrian partner OKB. We paid off the bonds we made in '12. This year, 2 billion kunas, together with interest rates of 144 million kuna, were paid out of their own liquidity reserve and there was no need for refinancing. The total capital, so our core capital amounted to 8 billion 111 million kuna and payments from the Croatian budget to the basic capital in the reporting year amounted to 600 million kuna as the Croatian Parliament also voted for 2012. Profits totalling 134 million kunas and 400,000 kunas and total profits have been transferred to reserves, thus increasing the capital base. Total revenue is 979 million kuna which is an increase of 3% compared to '11. and total expenditures of 845 million kuna, which is an increase of 10% to the previous year. So if we are talking about this increase in expenditure, the most affected by the increased allocation of reservations in view of the global economic financial crisis that has spread to Croatia because of the difficulties of some companies that are users and our loans, we have also set aside bigger reserves. The net interest income increased by 23%, and of which the largest interest revenue item increased by 8% due to the increase in credit volume and liquidity reserve management. So they continue to participate as the most significant income with 99% of the participation in total revenues. I must stress here that HBOR has given up part of the report year due to the reduction of interest rates by 1% for investment in industry, agriculture, health, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, to encourage investment and help economies to expand production and create new jobs. The expenditure on interest has been reduced by 1% due to the use of favourable funds of specific financial institutions and, as I have already stated, bond payments. They participate with 66% in total expenditures. So here I was trying really briefly to present these basic financial indicators, and now I'm going to try to say the same in a short way about the essence of our business in 2012. So our business in the reporting year was focused on three objectives: enabling entrepreneurs to start a new investment cycle, and thus increasing production, increasing exports and increasing employment. Furthermore, strengthening entrepreneurship capacity, maintaining and improving liquidity, so HBOR as a state-owned development bank should not at all deal with financing of crafts and liquidity resolution, but given the difficulties that the Croatian economy, i.e. shareholders, had in 2012. Then, together with the business banks and within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian National Bank, we went with a programme of economic development, which is practically a solution or an improvement of the liquidity of Croatian entrepreneurship. And a third opportunity to finance candidate projects for EU funds in order to boost as many economies as possible and make better use of these funds. In order to achieve these three basic objectives, we have also taken certain measures primarily to reduce the interest rate by one percentage point for all new investments in agriculture and tourism, industry, environmental protection and rope and in a broader sense. Then we extended almost all of our repayment deadlines and starts in all of our credit programmes, we made it possible for a purely kuna loan. So we left the owners with the opportunity to choose a way to pay off loans or in a kuna loan related to a foreign exchange clause according to the euro or a clean kuna loan. And a new way of financing risk sharing was introduced, so a special way of sharing risk with small and medium-sized enterprises' business banks, along with HAMAG, a state insurance agency. And a risk-sharing model for large projects or large companies also with business banks. We have also taken a number of measures to improve or help agricultural producers. And I have to say here that we can at least be satisfied at HBOR, but when I talk about HBOR, then I mean both the management and the supervisory board that adopted this report with our credit and business activity in 2012. So we approved over 10 billion and 200 million kuna loans, which is 56% more than in 2011. And it's been granted a larger, significantly higher number of loans than in the previous year of 1622. It's very important that we changed the structure of approved loans after five years. So in these four previous years of the crisis, credits for the trade sphere, for the resolution of liquidity, have been overly approved. So, since the start of the crisis this is the first year when we approved more investment loans 53% were for investments and 47 for investment in crafts. Let's remind ourselves of 2010 when only 21% were granted investment loans. Then almost twice the number of investment approvals was increased. So in 2012, we increased by 93% of the total amount of investment loans. As regards support for exporters through various programmes, we have granted exporters over 6 billion and 100 million kuna loans in 650 individual approvals. When we add export insurance to the political commercial risks of 2 billion and 560 million, then exports in the twelfth year have been driven by over 8 billion and 700 million kuna. In the 12th month of 2012 The EIB approved a 500m-euro loan, so the European Investment Bank for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and 25 January this year concluded the first part of the 250m loan. Now, at the end of the sixth month or the beginning of the seventh month, we're going to sign because we've already spent that first tranche, and we're going to sign the second part of the 250 million kuna loan. Thus, in the 12th year, as foreseen by the parliamentary decision or the adopted budget in 2012 all 600 million underlying capital loans have been paid and up to now 5 billion and 500 million HBOR's share capital has been paid. I'm just going to say for a little while what we're planning in 2013. Therefore, retaining such an increased level of credit that was realised in the record year 2012. Then the measure we thought would only be one year lower one percent of the interest on investments in tourism, industry, agriculture and environmental protection we extended to thirteen years. Then we want to encourage the inclusion of business banks through risk-sharing models in the financing of new investments. In fact, all these efforts made by HBOR in 2012 could not be followed by an increased, significantly increased investment cycle because we were not followed by business banks. So, if we look at the total financing of investments from financial institutions in 12 years over 30% has covered HBOR, when we know what the balance sheet of HBOR is compared to the total banking system, then the share of all business banks is really negligible. Then in the 13th year we will encourage special target groups from beginners, women entrepreneurs, young entrepreneurs and especially innovators, inventors. And follow Croatian exporters through all stages of export business. We are also already involved in the process of developing operational programmes that are a prerequisite for the use of EU structural funds and further co-operation with specific financial institutions in order to ensure favourable, cheap resources, and can then ensure that interest and lending conditions are as favourable as possible for the economy. In the end, only one data, until 30 April 2013, we approved the loan by 15% more than in the same period in 2012. So we're probably going to go way beyond the record year 2012. Here, thank you very much for your attention and we are both available to you and my colleague Irena Adžić Jagodic for your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39885	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, the HDZ Club will support this report, but the report even sounds a little bit like when it was announced by the chairman of the board and even when you read it a little bit excessively. And why is this too far-fetched? So for the simple reason why this report shows that the HBOR has done the maximum it could do in the moments when practically crediting died in Croatia, when business banks do not borrow anything, only those projects that are visible from the plane are safe, there will be no problem, there will be no risk of a 5-year economic and financial crisis being simply a 5-year financial crisis and the economic crisis has taken its toll. Many credit ratings that were still two, three years ago seemed first-class, unfortunately today are also risky for business banks probably very hard to charge. And the logical thing is that the HBOR, with the support of both the Ministry of Finance and the Supervisory Board, has launched some sort of process for craftsmen, primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because the HBOR very difficult, except for several projects in tourism, can monitor some significant investment projects, and so said Mr Kovacev in its opening part, so they tried to save those who took credit in previous years, reducing the interest rate, reprogramming, extending the credit repayment deadline to say so by trying to give air to those who started certain projects and this crisis simply hit them as it hit them. But what might be missing in this report and I think it would be good if these data were substantiated for the simple reason that then that picture would not be so idyllic and you would see that simply the situation in the economy is as difficult as it is and that it may be a subject that simply doesn't deserve any political debates or stories, either on the left or on the right because I don't think anyone can win in these political debates, we can all just lose. And that's why I'm saying maybe we should talk based on experience from the past 4 years and ABC and A+ programmes which are all the first to be the problems of the Croatian economy in its bad structure, which are the problems of the Croatian economy regarding its very, very low capitalisation and practically inability to be in charge and to raise credit with business banks because simply because of this low capitalisation of companies, they can't expect to get credit with business banks at all. And the logical thing is that the guarantees provided by HAMAG and this risk that practically HBOR enters, because in recent years, HBOR has virtually placed all its assets through business banks and the risks of these loans have been borne by business banks and the logical thing is that the HBOR administration has proposed that the HBOR has a greater responsibility, that it enters into greater risk for a simple reason, together with business banks, to encourage that credit activity, to launch that investment cycle. So, aware of the facts and experiences of what they have seen through attempts by past governments that there is simply no interest, and neither is there a possibility of credit borrowing. So I'm saying maybe in this report it would be good to talk about reduced interest rates that simply add a few more sentences and say what that amount is. For the simple reason it's not the amount of several thousand kunas, it's the amount of several million kunas, and later I'll say why I'm saying it all. Likewise, when it comes to extending the payment deadline and it has its own price, it reduces in a certain way the credit and the potential of the HBOR because if you expected a certain inflow of funds for, say, a 5-year loan now you extended it to 7, 8 years with two years of grace periods, the logical thing that the repayment of those funds would be longer and that the credit potential that HBOR was based on should have been reduced. So it's just those indicators for those who aren't so much in the subject, they just see some facts and facts that are there and that simply that the HBOR didn't make then probably the profit wouldn't be something else, but maybe 150, 160 or 200 million, I'm saying it by heart, but it's simply from this report you should see. Because I say these measures were done because of the difficult economic situation, and in the report it says too much and does not indicate that such a difficult economic situation is in the Republic of Croatia. However, if only this segment had been made as regards the reduction of the interest rate by 1% and as regards the extension of the repayment period, it would have clearly shown that the situation in the economy is difficult and that the HBOR has taken this measure precisely at perhaps three at the moment the most vulnerable sectors to say the Croatian economy, which is agriculture, environmental protection and tourism which, with a small financial injection, can do something and can achieve something. So that's what I think should otherwise be in the reports because it's simply something that reduces HBOR's financial outcome and certainly the financial result would be far more favourable if it had happened. The second thing when we talk about a unioned loan, I want to make it clear that it is a process that started in the first year of the crisis, so when the economy in the Republic of Croatia and the financial sector began to shake significantly, so with the CNB and the business banks, it is a trade union to help the firms in question. However, when you look at the use of these loans over the past three years, then you will get the right picture of the Croatian economy, what I said practically from these loans according to model C you did not have almost any request for a loan... for investments. The biggest demands were for craftsmanship. And that's when someone says today that they have reduced Croatia's liquidity by 7 billion kuna. That 7 billion kuna nobody got. So no one got them, they're administratively overwritten. And why is that? Because we are administratively playing with Croatia's largest rakran economy right now because if for the past 5 years the Croatian economy from that small craftsman to the largest tourism entrepreneur who has received the biggest loans, is looking for, calls for trade funds, then obviously the liquidity problem in the Republic of Croatia. And if that indifference had dropped by 7 billion kuna, then those 7 billion kunas would have been won by someone in Croatia starting with a citizen who had not been paid something to a small craftsman or possibly the largest companies. But these 7 billion do not exist in the cash flow of the Republic of Croatia they are administratively overwritten for some periods, depending on how long this pre-warrant settlement will take and whether these funds will begin to go at all. So, if this report stated this then this picture would be more clear because when you look at HBOR's core capital then you will see that over 5 billion kunas have been allocated from the state budget over the past years, but also almost a billion kunas have increased that capital capital with the basis of HBOR's profits. So the government in the past years how many HBORs there haven't pulled that profit for a year, but it left that profit to HBOR and then, with 300, 400, how it paid and increased its share capital, let's say last year, that was 600 million kuna, we came to the core capital practically from over 7 billion kuna. So these are in a certain way taxpayers' money and therefore I say some things should be put in the report perhaps in a slightly different way for the simple reason that all fellow Parliamentarians see this picture more clearly for the simple reason that probably each of us there is interested in a particular area. Someone for tourism, someone for environmental protection, someone for agriculture, someone for craftsmanship, someone for small and medium entrepreneurship, and if you had one such picture then you'd know more clearly which way and how HBOR goes. So what's visible from the risk sharing is clear that in larger investments, HBOR has, given the stagnation of lending in HBOR's business banks, gone to that first step to take the risk of 50% of the loans, of course, with the HAMAG guarantee and the other 50% credit to the business bank. It is for entrepreneurs who have an investment of more than 9 million kuna and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with HAMAG guarantee where HBOR practically takes risks somewhere around 40%. And as Mr Kovac said last year, increased investments were made, but when you take that most of these loans somewhere around 80%, 87% or 1352 loans or 4.6 billion loans to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and the rest we can say goes to several major projects primarily in tourism, then it's clear that we can talk as much as we want, we can work as hard as we want, but HBOR simply doesn't have the strength or the power to lend something that doesn't have an interest in the Republic and that's a key problem. Because I think that from these three segments of environmental, agricultural and tourism protection, there is practically no requirement that has not been approved and that has in any way had its economic justification that it has not received support and that the HBOR does not lend it or finance it. But there was another problem, and Mr. Kovacev said well in his final part that practically 30% of the total investment in Croatia was funded by HBOR. When you take the credit potential of the HBOR, and what is the credit potential of the business banks when you take away this zero one so if you say that the HBOR has funded 3% of the investments in the Republic of Croatia then you could say that's the right thing to do. However, these 30% should simply be read in one other way. It should be read as a Croatian problem. And if it wasn't for HBOR, then, with the support of course, I will say it openly to the Governments and the Supervisory Board, and that means that Parliament too, if the representatives of the Assembly were sitting on the Supervisory Board, probably the situation would be worse, first of all, in terms of agriculture and the tourism sector, and that should be said clearly. But I repeat this 30% is the biggest problem and the biggest evil at the moment that is happening in Croatia, which is that the business banks simply do not participate in the process of lending any segment of the Croatian economy for the simple reason that what I said at the beginning because of the first-class placements have now become bad, unfortunately their balance sheets have been badly broken back a year, a year and a half and they can neither take the risk. But what I'm trying to say is that the project that started six, seven years ago, which is that the HBOR relies on the funds of institutional banks, proved to be very successful. Finally, if you noticed what Mr Kovacev said, the European Investment Bank has approved a small and medium-sized entrepreneurship credit programme worth 500 million euros. Such credit and under such conditions at this time as the situation on the world financial market HBOR could simply dream, not get it. And that was a prerequisite to eventually go with a reduction in this interest rate. So this rely on European investment banks at the end of last year are the majority of HBOR loans and if we ignore this unioned credit with business banks in the Republic of Croatia has gone from the world and European institutional banks and it is only perhaps a certain conclusion of this High House that the Ministry of Finance is still more powerfully helping that HBOR may be, regardless of the small segment of its ownership in these institutional banks, even more encouraged that the HBOR can participate in certain projects. The more we become a member of the European Union than 1.7, so in a certain way we should have had a more favourable credit treatment because we have paid a lot of 2.2.5 all these years and sometimes 3 percentage points more just because we were in the phase of negotiations for entry into the European Union, not because our economy is bad and like this. And finally, when you look only in the environment, our closest neighbours have had far more favourable credit treatment than we are just because they are members of the European Union, and today the situation in their economy is far worse than in Croatia. And just to finish with the sentence, the funds of economic co-operation, unfortunately they also show how unprepared it is at this point for entrepreneurs to risk, unprepared to enter into ownership restructuring, and probably that there was more cooperation in the funds for economic cooperation, probably there would be less pre-emptive settlements. And what should certainly be commended, given that the units of local self-government and entrepreneurs will also have problems providing their own component in the means to withdraw from the European Union's accession funds, in fact, from the European Union funds, this HBOR programme is something that needs to be expanded in the future and thus help all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39887	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. First respected colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39888	Well, here's Mr. Schucker you were talking about a liquidity cut of 7 billion as one administrative measure that actually only reduced the money on paper, and that money actually didn't spill anywhere in the real sector. Maybe you should think about whether that money ever came into existence, so not only is it administratively reduced now, whether it's really ever really that money and whether or not it was just one round of commitments that were created, and that they didn't actually have a basis in those 7 billion like some billion indifferences that actually existed. I don't think that money ever really came into existence, so then even when those obligations are deleted, and when that circle of liquidity closes, I don't think that money can be created because there's anything that can come from anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39889	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39890	Well, I wouldn't agree with you if that money never existed. He existed, just simply in certain processes he was translated into something else. Because if you in your business take up credit and buy something to say private consumption, whether it's a car, a boat or something, instead of using that money for your business activity and that this new expanded production creates a bigger income with which you're going to pay back the loan, you're in a position to owe the state, to owe some suppliers and to come up with this debt that you've come to. If the administrative measure is now suspended and is no longer in debt, those 7 billion are missing somewhere, someone expects to get them. Because if that tax part that the state needs to charge doesn't sit in the state budget means so much less will be in the state budget, if some company doesn't get it, it won't be able to settle its obligations to someone else. It's a law of pooled vessels, and in finance, you just can't shut it down in an administrative way. You have a left and right side, you owe and you search and there's always someone who's either a debt or a demand party in some kind of minus because simply these money existed, they're not fictional because this tax debt or it's based on what the taxpayers reported or on the basis of what the inspection services found. Also, you have, in principle, somewhere every year, not in principle but 1.10 economic operators used to call each other a copy of the open items, I don't know what it's called today, but according to international accounting standards, they harmonize the balance sheet. So if someone doesn't confirm to you what you sent him, then it means he's contesting it, but if that's confirmed, then it means yes. Therefore, it exists. Let's not fool ourselves into doing something by administratively erasing it. We didn't increase liquidity, we didn't stock up on extra funds to start paying, but they just administratively just put it on and someone ran out of that money. First, it's the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39891	Thank you very much. Another replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39892	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you said that business banks do not want to take any risk and that they do not lend either agriculture or tourism or other sectors and that this role was taken by the HBOR. The biggest risk will be taken by banks if they do not increase credit activity because it is impossible to maintain a stable financial sector with an unstable real sector. In the long term, it is unsustainable and the biggest risk is taken if they do not lend to the economy because there is no economy without lending to the economy. Given the role of the new HBOR has, I would suggest that you change your name, not to be called the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development but to be called the Croatian Development Bank because you really are the only one who develops Croatia. As far as business banks are concerned, out of 410 billion kuna assets only have 260 billion kuna credit activities and when your credit activity is compared to their credit activity compared to their assets, you are 100 and several times more credited than they are. So just for the FGS, he mentioned fellow Shucker and funds for economic co-operation. So how come only HBOR has economic cooperation, how commercial business banks don't participate with the FGS. Because it is always a public-private partnership in Croatia, however in any form there was a country in that partnership to draw a thicker end and so on in the FGS. And I would recommend you move away from the FGS because these are hybrid funds that have no business logic in themselves because they're designed to help fallen business entities, and you're writing your own report that they're even investing in newly established companies. The FGS are designed to compensate individual funds, receive a huge fee for something they don't do at all. And that's why their fate, at least when it comes to working with you, should stop because it doesn't make sense to invest in private banks and sell the state bank at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39893	This replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39894	Thank you very much. Well, you're right about the FGS, fellow Maric, because it's very strange that no one in Croatia but the legal obligation of the HBOR to invest 50% shows no interest in entering these FGS. However, what is a key problem of the FGS is that of counterpart Kovacevic from the beginning, no one simply wants to accept ownership restructuring in Croatia. Because when you get money from the FGS, then he goes inside and into ownership and management, etc. Therefore, it is unfortunately such a project as I would have been too happy if the HBOR had never entered it and it was not in it today. And as for business banks, I have deliberately pointed out several times that the biggest problem and the biggest tragedy is that HBOR finances 30% of investments in the Republic of Croatia and it simply shows what a blood count is at this point in credit. Because if banks have to say overnight liquidity of 10 billion kuna, they have so much liquid assets that they can borrow certain projects. However, apparently the poor structure of the portfolio does not want to enter certain risks, and also given the conditions under which they are owed outside, they simply and with this few projects can survive for two, three years not to go into certain risks and that is the real problem that is in the Republic of Croatia. That is why it would be good once if the Minister of Finance or someone here at the Higher House exposed the structure of the interest rate paid by the Republic of Croatia and then you will see what I have told you that we have been paying two or three percentage points more interest for years just because we are not members of the EU. We are now. If we are, cut us now by those two, three percentage points what you've been taking us for years. Because the Slovenians paid a lower interest rate for these two, three percentage points just because they are EU members and their risk is lower. Well, gentlemen, we expect these famous credit rating agencies that behave like elephants in glass, to now value what Croatia has entered the EU by 1.7, please help us reduce the risk, please welcome Croatian citizens, the Croatian economy and the Croatian state to reduce the interest rate, then it would be a real match.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39895	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP club, the respected Dragica Zgrebec, vice president of the House, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, President of the Board and member of the HBOR administration. The SDP Club has always until now, when we discussed the HBOR annual report, accepted those reports, so it will, of course, do so this time. We've always rated them as being comprehensive, objective and transparent and understandable. And that is why I think that this qualification that my colleague Schucker said is idyllic, I would not have qualified it so, but I would say that HBOR realistically presented the business he had done in one business year and through such, through the jobs they were doing, you can actually see what the situation in the economy is and what the policy of business banks is in relation to the economic operators in Croatia. I will say that in 2012 there was also a change in business policy in the HBOR precisely in the sense that the SDP Club at the time when we were in opposition proposed a policy which was then conducted in the HBOR, which was not run by the management but by the Supervisory Board which actually defined HBOR's policy, which is that the more rapid payment of the core capital established by the Law establishing the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should be paid from the budget at a level of 7 billion kuna. We've heard it's less than six billion now. And we have always said that we should go more courageously into placements, i.e. that the HBOR should also take part of the risk given the situation that we have in the economy because the commercial banks in terms of the price of capital, wealth, and certain insurance are far more unfavourable even for those projects that, in a short time, could give effects within the economic operator. For several years, HBOR has also said in most parts or in almost 100 percent of the amount used by the public banks of the European world, the European Investment World Bank, KFV and similar ones, which significantly reduces the capital used by HBOR and can then, with more favourable conditions, place it further to economic operators in Croatia, so for the third year we are going with reduced rates and slightly increased manual. HBOR has shown itself in this time of crisis I will repeat it as we have repeated in all these years since 2008 as the only financial institution in Croatia at the service of the Croatian economy and Croatian entrepreneurs, and not only in the investment sense what should have been its primary role, but in recent years it has also appeared in terms of crediting crafts, i.e. restructuring of the Croatian economy when not already done by banks. A fellow Shuker here said she didn't withdraw her profits from HBOR. I think it would be illogical to withdraw profits from HBOR and not need the HBOR to make a high profit. The HBOR is precisely because it should have the most favourable investment assets to achieve minimum profit and to place capital under the most favourable conditions. So the capital price should be the cheapest one in HBOR. And there's never been a dilemma for us in the SDP whether we're going to capitalize HBOR, so over the 7 billion kuna that's been established by law or we're going to develop some state-owned business bank. It has proved precisely in these years of crisis that the only Croatian state bank has not participated in HBOR activities at all. The result of such a policy is, in fact, a reduction in interest rates in 2011 by one percentage point and then in 2012 and here we are told by the chairman of the administration and by mid-this year the manual has increased, the beginning and grace period has been increased, it is possible for the entrepreneur to choose whether to go in kunas or with the currency clause and this new way of financing, the sharing of risks that are to a slightly greater extent than previously used. The result is increased plasma. For the first time, HBOR placed more than 10 billion kunas, and there was a change in structure. This is the first year since the start of the crisis when the HBOR has more placed in investments than in crafts. And that ratio went over 50% for investment, so 53%. What's the problem with that? The problems are the creditworthiness or incompetence of committees which, to a greater extent, rejects business banks, we do not have enough quality projects to go into investments, but also the lack of interest of business banks in particular in this part of the economic development programme. We've had a lot of auctions with significant assets at our disposal precisely for those crafts, however, precisely because the business banks were not partners with their committees in those 50% of the funds many could not use those funds. Each year HBOR goes with new projects, in this year it is five new projects. This is crediting IPA candidates' projects, then crediting production, the most significant is that the HBOR has also entered the lending of agricultural production over the last two or three years, then the projects of the economic development programme and the lending of new production. I would refer here to two projects that I think are significant, which is a programme of economic development that we are not satisfied with either at the HBOR or we here in the Assembly because there could be far more resources realised in craftsmanship for those who are in trouble if the business banks were to follow their committees more. In 2012, the part relating to HBOR billion and 150 million kuna or a total of 2.3 billion kuna was placed, taking into account the part which was placed by the commercial banks. And when we look at what the businessmen are, what they've been up to, then it's important that they've largely met their obligations to suppliers, which we think is good, that the worst thing that's actually been going through is the state, but in this situation of inequitability, huge indifference is really good. For example, according to model A 72% concerned payment of obligations to suppliers and by model A+ almost 58%. And just a few more words about this programme regarding the use of EU funds. We could hardly compete, i.e. to implement programmes that competed through IPARD, IPA and all the measures available from 101, 103, 302 and 301 when such projects would not have provided funding to the implementation of the programme if it had not been accompanied by HBOR with favourable funds. There were interest rates ranging from 1 to 4%, the funding was even higher than the part that would be returned as grants. So some projects will also be financed at 100%. The payment deadline is also favourable because it applies to almost 15 or 15 years, or to a maximum of 15 years, and it starts to a maximum of 5 years. So, as has already been said here, almost 70% of the investments that have been made or programmes, projects that competed for IPARD and SAPARD have been financed through HBOR. Finally, I would say that we are assessing that the HBOR contributed significantly to the financing of the economic sector at a time of crisis, so not only in investment but also in terms of crafts. So, it wasn't just the development, it was the consolidation of economic operators, it was taking on bigger direct placements, but it actually meant more responsibility and the HBOR Administration and the Supervisory Board because when you go to greater risks then and the consequences might be something bigger or something more we might have to book and maybe even write off from the years when all the risks were taken over by business banks. There we are pleased how HBOR worked in 2012. We believe that even in 2013 we can increase investment funds or that this amount will return to what should therefore be to finance development to the greatest extent, and to the extent possible this part of the consolidation of the Croatian economy. So the SDP club will accept the 2012 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39897	Thank you very much. They're following the replicas. First esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39898	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think that pulling the parallel between HBOR and the Croatian Post Bank is simply impossible because HBOR was one institutional export investment bank which unfortunately does some other business because of the crisis, but its direction in 2007 was quite another. And as for the Croatian Post Bank, it is a commercial bank that operates according to market criteria as well as all other banks without political interference because if politics interferes, then the bank is for a moment on its feet. Therefore, the banning of these two banks is simply not good but that the Croatian Post Bank can, above all, bring certain quality to Croatian citizens because of the infrastructure it owns at the end if one Germany can have its own postal bank, I see no reason why Croatia could not have it. It is very interesting, though, that there is money for the recovery of some small private banks, and there is no money for the recapitalisation of the Post Office Bank. But even when we talk about the core capital of the Post office Bank with those 300, 400 million more paid share capital did not suddenly increase the credit potential of the Post office Bank. However, one other question is raised, if the state is in debt of 6.5% to pay HBOR's core capital, while the HBOR can be charged at the same time with 3% for specific projects according to precisely targeted economic branches, it is more logical at the moment that the HBOR is in charge of the EIB, EBRD or the Central Bank of the Council of Europe and is financing these projects than the state's debt of 6.5%. But look, it's not so much of a capital increase that's crucial to what the HBOR is doing today, but the situation in Europe and the world has opened up some new space for some new models and ways of lending that the HBOR has greatly accepted, fortunately, especially for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and some tourist employees, in fact, dozens and hundreds if I may say so. But I say HPB and HBOR are something quite different and HPB and Croatia are insurance wealth of Croatia and it must not be sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39899	The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39900	I didn't say or think HBOR and HPB were the same. HPB is a business bank that operates and operates under the banking law while HBOR acts under the HBOR Act. and when assessing the need for the core capital of HBOR and passing the law if this is determined by 7 billion kuna, then the state must pay it. It's not good that 21 years of the state failed to pay 7 billion kuna into HBOR's core capital, it's not good. I was talking about a state-owned state bank. The state doesn't have any money at this point, you say it yourself has to be in charge of recapitalizing the bank. Isn't it wiser then that you're looking for a strategic partner for one such bank because it's too small to monitor any larger state or other projects? And she does it on terms like any other business bank in Croatia. That's why I'm being referred to as a state, as a government, and as a Parliament, we should be more focused on helping the development bank right now. Such banks have other countries and use them in times of crisis and have shown that they are actually the best transport economy when the economy comes into crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39901	Second replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39902	Dear colleagues, here I am continuing on this replica. You mentioned a business bank, a commercial business bank, the only state bank, that's H.P.B. I would not agree with my colleague Shuker, he said politics must not interfere with the bank's business. I think why the HDZ government allowed politics to interfere in the business of the HPB. We know she got mixed up. Now whether like the government or its individuals in the government were very involved. If HBOR is previously said to be 100 times more active in financing the Croatian economy than the Croatian commercial banks, then we are also talking about that Croatian commercial banks should be absolutely safe as they operate in the Croatian economy. So, the HPB should, too, agree with you to fully finance the Croatian economy as the other banks should participate in the loaning of the project in Croatia. However, I agree with colleagues who advocate not selling HPB. There's a force here to prove that the HPB is working unsuccessfully, that it's too small, and it doesn't want to be recapitalised. The last time we talked about HPB was Minister Linic here and said that with 800 million kuna as a start to capitalise on HPB it is not insurmountable money if we know and in a year 7 billion kuna invested in Croatian banks, the citizens were pulled out of socks and invested and Croatian citizens who would like to capitalize on HPB with this money, but it seems to be in the interest to sell it. And when we want to sell what's wrong, first we should sell to the Croatian government, I just don't know who would buy it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39903	The answer to the line, dear dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39904	Thank you. You fellow Vuksic can't get out of your skin, so then one good debate you've had, you should sell to the government. Well, I don't think any government would buy, why buy a government that's four years old. But when we talk about business banks and development banks, you have to make sure that business banks have different exports of funds, so they collect funds from the deposits of citizens, economies, etc. These sources are actually always more expensive, we are now fortunate that for several years, 4-5 years HBOR so I will also say because it has worked very well and because the people who run HBOR quality work and have created an image for HBOR and outside Croatia actually came into a situation that they can use more favourable sources of funds. So the difference between the funds placed by the commercial banks and which the institutional or public banks place is large, by several index points. And the state bank whether politics is involved in it or not, so you shouldn't interfere with the HBOR in the sense of saying you're going to give these, and you won't give these. It must create a policy, so the Supervisory Board, which is a part of the government's members, i.e. ministers and three parliamentary deputies, is a political body in the HBOR law. But it must create a policy, not decide who is to be given or not to be given, which must be decided on the basis of the professional bases given to them by the administration in the section in which the statute and the Rules of Procedure so decides.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39905	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, a respected colleague, Drazen Djurovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39906	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the HBOR Board, MPs and MPs. I would, in fact, agree to the opening statements of my predecessors, or share them on this report and on the work of the HBOR, especially for the previous year. I think the HBOR itself actually adopted certain remarks and proposals that were made when it came to the 2011 report, so this report is a little more transparent and more legible than the previous year's report. But also HBOR itself has shown perhaps a little less conservative than in previous years, and has taken the risks of credit ratings which he has not done so far. In any event, and support for the work of the HBOR in 2012 as regards the HDSB Club and the support to this report and in this form as both substantive and visual. Now after these support and commendation a little bit about content. So here is the fact that no one has mentioned that I once again read what is the strategic objective of the HBOR, that the HBOR encourages, within its powers and competences, systematic, sustainable and even economic and social development in accordance with the general strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we have a problem defining these general strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia. We all agreed that this report shows that the HBOR actually did the best it could in 2012 within its capabilities. However, monetary and fiscal policy has not clearly defined the main economic strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia or those defined for example through the state budget, they have shown that they have not been realised. We haven't exactly met up with the coincidences of that. So monetary and fiscal, of course, the HBOR cannot replace either fiscal or monetary power. HBOR did what it could, we see the growth of plasma, we see the growth of activity, we see the growth of credit activity, we see the takeover of risk in plasmas and these into large investments and in medium and small entrepreneurship. Maybe that 50% risk-taking ratio for large investments, and 40% for small and medium-sized me this way seems a little illogical since in some ways higher risks are being taken in larger investments. In those smaller investments, the stake in those risks is smaller, but okay, if that's how it is with HAMAG, that's how it works. However, how monetary and fiscal policy is implemented and the general strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia and which would be the general strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia, I am not sure that it is clear to anyone at this time. Of course, we can't talk about the overall strategic goal of rich people and high employment, but I'm not sure where we might find some economic strategic goals or some of the given variables that we can measurely track in a year or in a two-year or four-year period, and in which way HBOR can actually track them. It is truly commendable that more than 6 billion kunas are paid to export, so 10.2 billion kuna. That's commendable. Get, regardless of the idea of how profit should be conservative, even profit is relatively high compared to income, a relatively high percentage of profit compared to income. And of course what the predecessors pointed out and what Mr Kovac specifically scored is the problem that business banks, or all other banks in the Republic of Croatia, are actually not following business investments and that this share of HBOR is incredibly high by total business investments compared to the entire banking sector of the Republic of Croatia. What Mr Kovachev pointed out is not noticeable and not noticeable when he comes tomorrow, the day after tomorrow the governor of the CNB and when he starts to explain Croatian monetary policy and the results of the CNB and Croatian monetary policy for the previous period. Then again, we get some data that doesn't actually talk about politics but more about monitoring events, so whether the CNB is an event tracker or the CNB is the creator of Croatian monetary policy. We met with this problem and when it comes to Postanska Banka and this variety of ideas about whether the Post Bank means anything to the Republic of Croatia or not. So does FINA mean anything to the Republic of Croatia, and we don't have who inherited that SDK that had a role. We've got a fina today. And I think it's visible from the annual FINA reports that come that even those people who run the FINA today don't know exactly what and how to do with that FINA. Second thing, third thing we have post office offices in the Republic of Croatia. We have the most extensive network of post offices in all villages, in small towns across the Republic of Croatia, which are now being shut down by full steam. Why? Because there's no activity that your offices need to do, there's no. There were ideas about reunification, about the re-establishment of a new system that would include FINA, the Post Office and the Croatian Post Bank. But it's dead somewhere in some kind of transition, and we actually have a fina that barely stands at zero. If they put together a good annual report, then they're at zero. We have mail that as a system is already in trouble. Post offices that are mass-extinguishing, because they don't actually have a way of keeping them, how to keep them all over the Republic of Croatia. We have a Croatian postal bank that we can't wait to get rid of as the only remaining Croatian bank. And we have the fourth link of the finally Croatian national insurance company that covers the largest part of the insurance market in the Republic of Croatia and the consequences of the sale that we will meet in the years to come when there is a significant increase in the premiums of all possible forms of insurance on the market which, in fact, Croatia is holding in so many more durable frameworks, that I am not talking about strategic interests, just what will actually happen in the Republic of Croatia at the moments when Croatia's insurance market falls. Of course for the HBOR itself who does everything he can in these frameworks and in this way as he's asked, it's not a key question. In any event, support for the work of the HBOR administration of this report. However, the work of the HBOR itself and it is evident that even with this share of what the HBOR does, the Croatian economy and all the parameters of the Croatian economy show what they show. So they're showing a definitive decline. Therefore, HBOR is not the answer. HBOR is one tool, one hook and nothing more than that. So, on HBOR, we cannot and will not base Croatia's economic development, but fiscal and monetary policy should actually take responsibility for one that has not been taken over so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39907	We have a single replica reported. Dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39908	A colleague Đurovic, so maybe you touched the right topic, because if we could do it then the position of HBOR would probably be stronger tomorrow. It should be made clear that one part of the portfolio lost by Croatia is the only consequence that some competing insurance companies are leaning on large banks. You know exactly what is addressed to the Zagreb Bank, which is the insurance company based on PBZ and the largest domestic insurance company with Croatia has its own bank. So some when you offer a new product then you have to have cheap capital as soon as you finance that product and then you can sell it on the market. And it's this synergy today, tomorrow because no big bank wanted to tie to Croatia insurance that we understand each other regardless of what Croatia's insurance at this time had over 50% portfolios. Yes, the postal office in the Republic of Croatia is being closed at this time. The question is, wouldn't it be better if the Post Office had one of its own counters there and that the pensioner could come and raise his pension and that he could pay the bill in the furthest place of the Republic of Croatia? It's a post office in Germany. I don't see why it wouldn't be in Croatia. When I said politics had nothing to look for in the bank. Well, I once said that politics has nothing to ask in any society, commercially owned... Managers who will manage it under market conditions, and politics only sets goals for it which is as expected of it as any other owner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a way of managing, not that politics dictates to whom credit will be given. Then it's a story that falls into the water. So let's not talk about the Post Office tomorrow or how it should be in the EU tomorrow, Croatia as an EU member so that such things can happen. However, I repeat HBOR is something quite different and some other more developed and richer countries have a very similar bank than Germany's KFV and further, which have their function and are clearly doing their job. But I can't compare myself with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39909	A colleague, Drazen Djurovic, will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39910	Here it is, well it is very visible that the success of the HBOR does not mean anything actually for the economic success or failure of the Republic of Croatia. Because we see the Republic of Croatia falling, HBOR is doing excellent and quality work. But HBOR is not an answer to the economic problem of the Republic of Croatia. As for the relationship of business banks as an insurance company, you are absolutely right and we all know very well how, and private loans, how it works and how a series of these foreign insurances that are operating in the Republic of Croatia today are related to their business banks. And of course, that one string that is now actually still compressed will open at the full width of the moment when what happens is being prepared, and it's actually preparing the most common short-term budgeting through the sale of these two companies. Nor will the problem be solved, nor will the budget be helped simply to patch up a single hole, and the water leaks everywhere. And on the third hand, you were also talking about it, for me it's a very optimistic thesis that the interest rates will fall as soon as the Republic of Croatia enters the EU by taking an example of Slovenia, we will be witnesses of it. I am afraid with the kind of monetary policy that is being led today and with such a fiscal policy that unfortunately Croatian citizens will not come to this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39911	We also have a signed replica of the respected Goran Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39912	Thank you very much. You spoke of the objectives and lack of targets in the field and economic policy and macroeconomic and fiscal policy. Each country must have its own objectives, political, social and economic. But these goals must be measurable and verifiable. It is not intended to reduce unemployment, it is not intended to increase production, it must be targeted to determine exactly how much growth we need, how much unemployment is not desirable and what we want. To achieve these objectives, we must have measures, and measures must know what we are going to do and what are the effects, whether they will achieve the objectives set or not. The sale of HPB can't be a measure at all. What goal is being achieved by selling HPB? Just to get rid of state property. We don't have the money to capitalize, it's the biggest prank I've heard lately. We have money, and we have 100 million kuna to capitalize on the collapse of a small private bank from the state budget, and we don't have to capitalize the H.P.B. And on the mantra how much the policy influence on the state bank was nothing less was ever on private banks if you just analyze what loans they were getting, who wasn't returning them then you'll see that there was an even stronger policy impact on large private banks than on the state bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39913	And this replica corresponds to the respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39914	Yes, I agree with you here, but for example we had a state budget, it should be one serious state document in which we write that this year we're going to grow 1.9% even though we don't have any indicators, no expert says that, no assessment. There's nothing to tell us that we're going to make it happen and we're going to write it down in the state budget. And of course, when it didn't come true because it wasn't even real to come true, there were no assumptions about such a thing at the end of the year we just determined that it wasn't real. So neither we have a real plan nor after that comes responsibility for why it didn't happen. Well, I guess there are state budget holders and those responsible for achieving it. So either you're writing something or you're behind it if you're a serious state, if you're a serious finance minister, if you're a serious Prime Minister, and then at the end of the year when it comes, you need to accept the commendation, and if it doesn't come true, you need to take responsibility. Unfortunately, responsibility for the fall, not growth of 1.9%, has not been seen in this government's mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39915	We will now hear the views of the HNS Club and the respected Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39916	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Board and colleagues and colleagues. In the previous presentations of representatives of other clubs, almost everything relevant to the 2012 HBOR Annual Report has been said. In advance, I would therefore like to declare the position of the CNS, namely our club of representatives, that it will support this report and welcome the efforts made by the HBOR, which it previously did in 2012 at the overall consolidation of the creditworthiness of the Croatian economy. It is precisely because that source, which is business banks, did not respond on the one hand to the challenges of this time, and on the other hand to expectations and wider social communities, and above all to the economics themselves. Yes, it is true, the data that HBOR participates with 30% in all investments in the Republic of Croatia is not good. It would really be good if with these absolute relationships it was actually 5, maximum 10%. A fellow Shuker says three percent. This would then be an indication that credit activities are very high, structurally very high and that the financial sector is behind them in commercial banks. Which means the projects are good, promising, profitable and they're going into realisation. But the reality in which we live, the reality of the economic crisis and recession for years actually shows that the Croatian banks, despite the fact that the Croatian economic crisis is not generated from the banking, or financial system as in many other countries, have therefore not entered this overall project of consolidation of the Croatian economy of withdrawal from the crisis by all the capacities they have had. But when we compare what happened in 2010, 2011 and 2012 from the title of HBOR interventions, we see actually huge efforts and attempts to maybe even conditionalally and fire-fightingally replace what others have not done. It would almost be noted that a general practice doctor had to do the work of many specialists who had given up on the treatment of patients. When we look at what it means in absolute numbers, then we see that the greatest progress is actually made not only in the absolute amount of fixed funds, so over 10 billion kunas, but in the structure itself. Unlike the previous years, most of the funds and this large majority in some years and 2/3 of the total fund that was available in the lending went to resuscitate the liquidity.... Now here, for the first time in a long time, this 50-50 ratio is now being transferred to 53% when it comes to investment in investments. So, structurally speaking, this is important, but in absolute amounts if we know that, for example, in 2011, 6.6 billion kunas were granted this year 10, that further, for example, in 2010, 1.4 billion kunas were granted to investments, 2011. 2.8, and now we see 2012. Six billion, then, are huge efforts. The fact is that these measures on the reduction of the interest rate and the attempt to accept or share the risk 50-50% were also well imagined and ultimately very useful measures. But again, we also see this example of the risk sharing that there is no response from commercial banks. On the other hand, we know that the savings, and this is the life-saving of the citizens, have grown rapidly, that this time amounts to around 20 billion euros. So there are resources and then we go back to the question of whether there are projects. The fact is also that entrepreneurs in these current circumstances are the same as citizens who have reduced consumption that they are entrepreneurs wherever they might have actually stiffed it. Because they're looking for elements, information, incentives, signals that the period ahead of them would be, above all, the period in which they should achieve this new imagined value but also restore their duties, that they would be more stable than this right now. It is not possible to expect the HBOR to take such steps and such a quality job without full support from both the Government and the Parliament, that is clear. Thus, and here, in some ways, it can be concluded that the government did everything it could when it came to this, so when it comes to ensuring better working conditions, especially in the part that the HBOR did, which is an increase in the maturity, it is an extension of the repayment, it is reduced interest, so what was done to make it easier for Croatian entrepreneurs to do so. But it is quite clear what HBOR is doing cannot replace what is the fundamental task of the commercial banking sector. There is no capitalisation, there is no funding in the finals that can replace the natural role of the commercial banking sector. Whether or not the government will communicate the need for capital activation in the Croatian banks, it is the second pair of sleeves and it will be discussed in some other reports, but it is the fact that all of us would be most happy to simply turn to two key tasks, which is the level of unbalanced regional development, so that it encourages programmes that would reduce differences on the other hand, so that in the future at least over this period of several years we have the possibility of using EU funds, so that all those with good and quality programmes can bridge the first time until we withdraw the funds themselves. Then if we imagine a possible scenario of 10 billion capital that was available in 2012, if we imagine that - these funds are going towards regional divergence, and - directly to support programmes that go towards EU funds - it would actually be a great, fantastic situation. But it's not like that, and unfortunately it doesn't seem like it's gonna happen for years. HBOR will have to focus its capacities and its strength and capital on helping the Croatian economy in the general sense of the word. The good news is that increased capital is placed towards the credit needs of exporters, twice as much as in 2011 which means that exports need capital, that exports have a chance and I hope that entry into the EU and the chances will increase further, and that the role of the HBOR will prove even more crucial in preserving the status of exporters that we actually wanted to recognise or do not depend on the future of the Croatian economy. I repeat, the HNS club of Liberal Democrats supports this report and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39917	So we're done discussing clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague named Nadica Jelash signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39918	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed president of the HBOR administration with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. This afternoon we heard debates about HBOR's business in 2012, but I will remind you that a week ago in Zagreb, the Convention of Croatian Exporters was held, and it was very good to listen then to what the exporters were doing, so those most using HBOR's funds talked about how HBOR operates. So at the Convention of Croatian Exporters, exporters highlighted their expectations of the government in the future and one of these expectations was presented as a need for further strengthening of the HBOR. This means that exporters, and they are the uncontested most important segment of the economy, are well aware of the importance of HBOR's financial subport, but this also means that the current government is on the right track by setting the key, therefore, the role of a key institution in reviving the Croatian economy. In fact, we can freely say that in the past 20 years, the existence of HBOR has indeed proved to be a strong and reliable foundation for the Croatian economy, primarily by adapting its business policy to the needs of Croatian businessmen. In those 20 years, HBOR approved the loan, which in the form of guarantees over 110 billion kuna, with nearly half of this amount being granted to exporters. So almost every other HBOR kuna ended in exports, which clearly confirmed HBOR as a successful export bank that provided Croatian exporters with conditions for equal competition in the demanding international market. It's actually hard to imagine how our exporters would go out to this world market without the financial support of the HBOR. In 2012, HBOR granted 1622 loans to Croatian entrepreneurs totalling more than 10 billion kuna, which is double the amount granted in 2011, with 616 loans granted to exporters under all programmes of nearly 6 billion kuna. As in previous years and in 2012, HBOR's business policy was adapted to the needs of the economy, so the start of an investment cycle, the improvement of liquidity and the financing of projects run towards European funds. Although loans for investments were doubled in 2011 compared to the previous year 2010, they increased by 93% further in 2012, so they doubled again and, for the first time, resulted in a change in the structure of the loans themselves. In earlier years, we heard this, the ratio of the credit for investments and credit for crafts was 30%:70%, so it was actually much more approved for crafts purposes, for crafts assets due to the high demand for missing crafts capital. Unfortunately, we cannot say that in 2012, the need for economic operators to finance trade funds has been reduced because we continue to have a high level of liquidity, but it is the government's commitment to put investment loans first because economic growth is a presumption. Thus, their share in the structure of the total appropriations increased to 53%:47% of the amount of the credit for the crafts assets and that is, of course, good because HBOR is primarily an investment bank. It is also commendable that the HBOR continuously introduces new lending programmes and that several new programmes have been introduced in 2012 as well as, for example, a programme for the lending of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are running their projects for the grant of IPA components 3c. Then there is the production lending programme, the economic development programme, the new production lending programme, etc. During 2012 The HBOR facilitated the business of entrepreneurs through appropriate measures such as the reduction of interest rates through the extension of repayment deadlines, through non-currency lending, through the sharing of risk with business banks and other measures. HBOR's interest, as we know between 1 and 4%, is therefore incomparably more favourable than those on the commercial market, i.e. those who approve business banks. Of course, all of these benefits for HBOR entrepreneurs were secured by the fact that it itself managed to obtain credit under favourable conditions, thanks above all to its reputation and excellent co-operation with international financial institutions, above all to the EIB and the EBRD. Although it is 100 % owned by the Croatian state rating HBOR is higher than that of the state and thanks to this particular rating it can also receive cheaper funding. And to conclude, the current government recognised the HBOR as one of the key institutions for reviving the Croatian economy and therefore it was necessary to strengthen the core capital of the HBOR so that the HBOR could take on itself even greater risks of lending, i.e. financing the economy. While still in opposition to the SDP, he proposed to dynamic the payment of the founding capital of HBOR in order to reach the legal amount of 7 billion kuna as soon as possible, all with the aim of obtaining HBOR as a state-owned institutional bank from European and world-wide banks even greater funds for the lending of the Croatian economy and, of course, even more favourable conditions. After the takeover of the government, the coalition government realised what it was saying, so it increased the payments of founding capital so that in 2011 and 2012 it was paid out of the public register of 600 million kuna, so that at the end of 2012, the total capital paid from the budget of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 5.5 billion kuna, i.e. up to the full amount of the previous 7 billion, would have to be paid another billion kuna, which means that, in practice, even before the end of the term of office of this Government, the founding capital would be fully paid. For the sake of comparisons, I will state that the capital of 180 million kuna per year has continued to be paid, as the previous Government has done in the last years of its term of office, then the full amount of the underlying capital would have been paid in about 14 years, which would be understood to be very unfavourable. Therefore, this payment of core capital thus provided the HBOR with a basic assumption that it would be an even stronger engine for the development of the Croatian economy. What I have to say in the end is too bad he's not being followed by business banks in all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39919	I thank and conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39920	The annual HBOR financial report for 2012. The debate is closed on the report. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following decision: The annual financial report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR) for 2012 is confirmed. Please state who's in favour of this decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 106 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39921	We move to - Report on the work of the 2012 Presentation and Appeals Committee The Reportor is the Committee on Presentations and Appeals based on Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and you received the material into the boxes. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear President of the Committee, Reverend Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39922	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. There are few of us left in the assembly, so then I'll use this to give details of the report in front of the board, and I won't speak for the club, so I'll cut short, given that there are few of us and I think this topic has earned a greater presence of representatives in the assembly. We therefore have before us a report by the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, which the Committee, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, is obliged to report to the Assembly on the observed irregularities of infringements of the rules as well as on citizens' rights in the proceedings before state bodies having public authority. I must point out that this report is 2012 and that for 2011 and 2010, the Croatian Parliament has not been given the opportunity to have a report on the work of this Committee. We and the members of the Committee together, so over the course of this year, have held about 5 sessions, discussed 429 written performances and complaints, as well as repeated performances and complaints, and complemented them from earlier years and which were delivered to the Committee in 2012. We should note that he knows how to come to the Committee daily and about 30 to 40 plays. Part of the performance is also received by telephone so that the staff of the Committee are employed throughout the year. What is particular, therefore, important for the Committee's very way of working, and also for the way the presentations are addressed to the applicants. First of all, there is also a certain relationship between the Croatian Parliament and our citizens. Because citizens of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals daily address their problems really need to take this issue seriously and this topic. It is also a note from our Committee that current business opportunities are not strong enough for us to conclude or close the case before the Committee. We've been reviewing individual cases at these five sessions. You have here in your report on the work of our committee what we have noticed, and this has been changing a little lately. It is that this silence of the administration, the silence of the ministries towards and our requests to the Committee has proved in many cases that it is not good, because then we cannot respond to the citizens, and at least what we can do for the applicant of the performances if it has, therefore, a legitimate need to do so is that the Committee responds with written answers to the requests and requests submitted to our Committee. This report shall in particular refer to the performances and complaints in the field of pension and health insurance rights, social care and family protection, representations and complaints relating to the work of the judiciary and administrations, in particular as regards the length of certain judicial, administrative, administrative proceedings, representations and complaints relating to the area of jurisdiction of the State's attorney of the Republic of Croatia and the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime, representations and complaints in the area of consumer protection, representations and complaints relating to the implementation of the exercise in the accounts of legal and physical persons, representations and complaints in the field of labour relations, in particular the presentations and complaints of the trade unions representing the interests of public and civil servants and of persons. It is particularly emphasized that the largest number of performances and complaints in 2012 171 were from the field of justice and administration, 98 from the area of housing, municipal and property-law issues, 53 from the field of labour and labour relations, 86 with social and health issues, and 21 representations and complaints from other areas. What we specifically warned citizens about was not the responsibility of our Committee, I also asked the Committee staff, we provide certain legal assistance to those who turn around. These are mostly citizens and citizens with weaker assets and persons who are not sufficiently addressed to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, so here we have tried in the Committee in a certain way and what is, therefore, beyond what the Committee should do, to help our citizens and citizens, so that they can cope with the problem it has encountered, to guide them, to answer in the best possible way the questions they are asking the Committee. Today, we also discussed a part of the issue of representations and complaints coming to the Committee on Justice. What we must mention in our Committee from various other state ministries, including the Office of the Presidents of the Republic and President of the Croatian Parliament, are the presentations and complaints of citizens. And we are trying to do everything in our business and legal framework to help citizens and to respond to the presentation and complaint in such a way that they can adequately ask for help and protect themselves about the problems they have faced with the administrative bodies of the Republic of Croatia. What is not good, and what has been noted in recent years is that, therefore, some notions and complaints of citizens are not taken seriously enough so that, as they were, here you have in the report and all the cases that we have, that state bodies and ministries are correspondence with each other, that all the problem comes down to trying to solve it in a way that jurisdiction is transferred to someone else. We have tried to change this in the past year and we are trying, so to respond to every more serious notion and complaint of citizens and to help them adequately when faced with the problem and before our Committee. Here's a brief, summary report. If there are questions, then we can discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39923	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is the HDZ club and counterpart Ilija Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39924	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a few colleagues and colleagues. I will say a few words on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club and right at the beginning that the HDZ Club will support this report because this is one of the few permanent parliamentary bodies submitted to the Parliament's report for the past year. You see, there's no one here from the government. The government here didn't feel the need to send at least someone to listen, I apologize, there's someone from the government? ... We don't need to know that, but I mean that there was no play, there was no almost premonition that we had not had a representative of the resolution ministry who helped, so they listened to the people of the government and helped move forward with some of the representations we received from the citizens. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't expect here, I'm not naive, that the entire government will sit here because it doesn't have to, but in any case, as far as all MPs are concerned, we didn't have a number, and the whole government thought it was the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about the state authorities who send daily large numbers of performances, complaints, complaints, complaints, etc. You heard from Mr. Salapic that the board discussed 429 cases last year. I've done a series of interviews, received a very large number of citizens. So, it's one committee that serves citizens as shoulder to cry because when they drain all the bodies, all the instruments, all the resources then appear with their complaint, with their complaint to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Assembly and then we, together with them, believe us crying over their fates that are not small. Terrible things happen, many manipulants, frauds leave the citizens of the Republic of Croatia without property with the help of a lawyer, so in the service of their and public notaries who verify because you can't traffic real estate unless it's got a public record certificate, and it's not a public notary that's forced anyone to go into the service, whether someone's out of town, whether for a small amount of money it's turned into a new currency and someone old, honest, honest living life in this country is driven to madness and remains on the street and no one has provided him with a tent and manipulants and fraud, so according to our suggestions end up through the USKOK in DORH and are being prosecuted about many of them. I'm not talking here on purpose about specific subjects, but all this stuff I'm saying has its basis in the items that have arrived, about which we discussed on the board. The main thing of this job that I'm talking about is that one small team of people working on the Committee on Presentations and Appeals and all the board members, I'm sorry that it's just the two of us here, Mr. Salapic and I, which is so few parliamentary representatives to hear this, which is a very important topic in which everyone should practically participate, I've even thought about it, every parliamentary representative. I even thought about the fact that it would be a very good year to hold one thematic session of the Croatian Assembly where we will prepare, share, make a selection of all the subjects, invite the relevant representatives of the relevant state bodies that will help us in our work and hold a thematic session on this topic. Because this committee acts as a committee for some performances and some complaints from some citizens, so not some citizens of our citizens, our citizens. These are the fates of the people who are each of them stories to themselves. Believe that every story, every single object that's been in front of us, could be filmed. To that extent there is and I ask the dear God not to have such objects and such difficult fates and in the 2013 Report because I believe that by the work of this committee, we have had two presidents since '12. Until '13. For years on this committee, they were both from the same political option and one and the other gave their pain and all the people who worked on that committee gave maximum. No decision, believe me, there are few of us here, and I'm going to say that, that's a very important fact, no decision on the board has been made by any vote, but they've all been unanimous because they're people sitting on the board and they've experienced it not in an emotional way but in a just and just way. So we just wanted to do as much as we could. So everything we've done as board members we've given answers to something. Everything we asked the departments for help, we asked them for specific suggestions and we sent them answers to their performances and complaints. None of them answered our questions, these answers from the ministries, the relevant authorities of the state were happy and not thrilled. Because objectively we're only able to suggest, direct, so forward. We're a transmission body that doesn't essentially solve their fate. All of them, mostly, expected a final solution from the board. And when they get the act and they see what we've done here, then they see that we've been doing something, a little arbitration, but we haven't done the important thing, we haven't detached that Gordian knot that their problem is living. And these problems of theirs are terrible. From the square of Ban Josip Jelačić and noise because there are no maps, noises, noises allowed, so neither Zagreb nor any city nor any units of local administration and self-government in Croatia. Perhaps it would be good to suggest from here, so first, to pass some law and on this subject, and that the issue is regulated so that people are not punished for living in Ban Jelačić Square, but to proudly say we live in Ban Jelačić Square and it is indeed the most expensive square but peace we have, we have peace of mind etc. But people are in terrible trouble. I was sorry to see the fine ladies, so the ladies who came to us with tears in their eyes came with tears in their eyes and left because there was no noise allowed, so it's called a map of noise, so I keep mentioning it. It should be called a map of allowed noise that these decibels beneath our citizens' windows throughout the Republic of Croatia. I hope what Mr. Salapic said and what I have made a little concrete was there were very many remarks concerning the work of civil servants, substitutes, so all of our reference state bodies, ministries, a very large number of procedures and judicial and administrative waters, and today between some very numerous ministries, it is a powder. It's been an honor, to the reputation of the Homeland War volunteers in certain public enterprises, to be persecuted by the unions, these are the terrible things that are happening. And what comes before us on the board by reading all these plays and complaints we simply remain silent, powerless. We have to give a suggestion, we know it won't satisfy them, and the instruments help objectively are gone. I hope that here in the next period for all the things that we have clumped, derailed and sent to certain relevant addresses we will ease the number of performances and complaints we will receive in the next period. I said the HDZ Club will back this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39925	Thank you. The replica of your presentation has a colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39926	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'll thank my colleague, Ilija Filipovic, first of all. He is indeed one of the board members who regularly, faithfully, and vividly described the work of our committee, comes to the meetings and helps the committee to do much. We will soon have a fellow Filipovic debate on the new Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so we should also make a contribution to the debate to see how they can be strengthened by the additional levers and powers of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. And what I noticed in the Croatian Parliament that even fellow MPs don't know, citizens come every day and we in the Assembly should provide some adequate space so that those people who come don't just kiss the door and walk into some small offices. These are however citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who come into the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia and all parts. Unfortunately, sometimes they don't even have the money to get to Zagreb, I don't know how they come, but we've been listening to a lot of our committee staff and we should really take seriously the work of this committee exactly as you paint it in your debate, and you've really said it nicely, lifely and professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39927	Reply to the replica by Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39928	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So this feeling that the president of our board has, a distinguished colleague, Salapic, I believe, little may have gone too far on the team. We all gave as much as we could, as far as we knew, as much time we had to read, had the will, the patience to read not exactly, it could be very extensive materials. But you've heard the taste of that, which is why I volunteered for the replica, so it would be good for the Parliament's presidency to consider a little bit of what we've been talking about, to secure some kind of space, to receive in one of the most beautiful ways these citizens of ours. These are our citizens, these are our neighbours, these are our constituents of all of us here in the Parliament, to show them that they have come to the temple of democracy, that they have come to their Croatian Parliament and the largest legislative body. But help us get a bigger transport through the secretariat. Give us more officers, 429 items in the last year. Please, it wasn't letters, it was scripts, it was books, it was huge materials, so where you need both waist and time and patience and you need people to serve this committee. This committee I would say by my own name is of insignificant name and last name, but it is a constituency body that I have the most weight and drag, so in this House, it exempts all permanent bodies from the Committee on the Constitution and legislation, so the judiciary that is constantly considering everything that comes into the procedure of the Assembly. But the Committee on Presentations and Appeals is something special, so I'd like all MPs to meet and, through one mandate, to make one fluctuation so that we can change people from committee to committee. Not everyone is overpaid to be in one body to see what it is to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39929	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39930	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must say that two years ago there was a delegation from Parliament of Hong Kong. And they asked, and where are your rooms, your offices, each one of your MPs? So I said we don't have, that we have 7 of us one room or one office. So they were surprised, they couldn't be surprised that every Parliamentarian doesn't have his own office where a citizen can come in as he comes to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals to present some of his problems and all of what he did to this committee in 2012, which is 429 written plays and complaints as well as repeated performances and complaints from earlier years delivered to the Committee in 2012. In view of the number of these performances and complaints, I must congratulate all committee members and staff who serve or care for the committee and everyone who works in the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. Yes, it is true that no matter what this committee exists, we have similar notions and complaints almost daily. And if all those complaints and performances were to end up in the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, then maybe it would be a 10 times larger number. What to say about the performances and complaints about theirs, I'd say specification. It is shown from this statistics that from that number, therefore 429, 171 refers to the area of justice and administration, 98 from the area of residential and municipal and property-law issues, 53 from the field of work and work relations, and 86 with social and health issues, and 21 representations and complaints from other areas. We see it every day, here and now it is a Palcic action on Croatian TV that is introduced by various associations, institutions, radios, TV to help various groups in society. And it is also true that the Committee on Presentations and Appeals may be relatively less famous than any other institution in the Republic of Croatia, so it is the board of the Croatian Parliament, yet it has received 429 written complaints and written statements, which means that it may be my subjective assessment for this committee that it does not know the mass of people that exists. So when we have such an idea, then 429 complaints are really a lot. Furthermore, says counterpart Filipovic, this is the right shoulder for crying to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And when a man receives such a complaint and in person, and there are almost I will not say it every day, starting with accommodation in a dormitories, from failure to exercise defence rights, I don't know from which problems people come from, so from working relationships, about accepting someone who has no advantage over a person who complains, by all indications and by regulation. So man could really talk about the situations and fates that are born out of these situations where long-term processes and combating administrative and administrative structure in the Republic of Croatia, so that, at the end of the day, when nothing can be addressed to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, he can conclude that there is ineffectiveness in this administrative and administrative machine, but also indifference, reluctantness and even malice, that the man who is grieving help is helped. And not only that, it's just one thick skin that says it's just like that and goodbye. So there's not one initiative in people who should solve, so the initiatives that would go, help a man, so it's just that if there's a little stumbling block he can't even say good-bye. So, for the section or for the show believe it or not, I'm convinced that you'd have material on that board to record it without any problems or that there's no such thing as all the shows on HTV about these things happening and where people's fates are being set. 429 plays and complaints, multiply it by 4, 5 or more, I don't speak directly to family members only than friends, acquaintances, godfathers, etc., that's a large number. It's a really large number of people who have exhausted, largely exhausted all the possibilities and who are stuck on some step where they can't achieve the rights for which, according to what you've cited here as examples, they've actually had the right to exercise certain rights from all these areas that I've been talking about. Well, here's the thing. I don't want to go any further, which are the real ones. So the lengthening of procedures to resolve insurance claims for pension insurance recognition is waiting half a year, per year, for two years. In the Vladislavci case in Osijek-Baranja County, a man was given his lady the right to care for her and receive compensation on the day of her death, because she had breast cancer with both metastases and therefore a completely collapsed health condition. So on the day of death, when a man went to the funeral he got a letter from the Ministry of Social Care that he had the right to take care of his wife, his wife. Until then, he waited, and there he waited, waiting for the day of his wife's death to finally get such confirmation, and he fought and went to hundreds of instances, hundreds of addresses he knocked on, at a hundred addresses he turned to. Next, HZZ Health Services. Believe me, I'm surprised to hear the other day, and I haven't been in health care for two years thanks to the position of local HDZ that I'm not a decent surgeon, a traumatologist, even though I was the oldest and relatively successful. When they told me people were coming without directions, so to the hospital. And then when I was supposed to go after my cousin, so I did an eye doctor's checkup, then they ordered me in seven months. That was two months ago. Five months to wait, say, for an eye exam, for an orthopaedic waiting list. So I'm always wondering how people aren't afraid that something's gonna happen to someone in that waiting room, to record an ultrasound of the heart. Since they are not afraid to order so far and so long, they will not die before then, so they will be responsible because they did not receive it in due time for recording the ultrasound of the heart. It's not the ultrasound of the heart that's going to die or not, but maybe it could have been helped that the search was done earlier. It also says here that complaints are the order of waiting in hospitals. And it exists. And if I don't talk about other things where, or now, we have, there will be legalization of objects again. Yeah, we'll legalize the facilities, great. But someone who doesn't, I'm walking in the field, and I'm not gonna talk about it right now. People complain about legalizing objects. And what if someone gets blacked out or blacked out and throws a bomb at the one who comes to take down some kind of object? Is the law going to work, too? Or we're deafening ourselves neatly without regard to the law. And when someone gets killed for it? When someone drops a bomb, a spoon or a spoon any way you want, because that's what he builds, he pays taxes on bricks, a chip, cement, everything. He was building on his grandfather's, and now he has to collapse. I'm not going to talk any further about the problems that come out of this material. But really congratulations to the committee that came after, I don't know how many years, I've been here for six years, second term. I haven't seen a single report from the Committee on Presentations and Appeals to this. So, until this year for 2012. That's why I congratulate my colleagues on this committee and continue with your courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39931	Thank you. The replica Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39932	Thank you. Dear colleague, here I thank you for your congratulations on working on the Committee, because I am a member of the Committee, although I think my colleague, Committee President Salapic, had one other intention with this Committee's report, which is to point out what was done and point out what could be done better. I'm not happy that you used it in a way, actually very personal, and the question of how casual it is in public and to mention specific cases of some families that might not want to. This is all that you've said you can agree to, but primarily the report of this committee was to indicate that it's done, and that it can be done even better. But, of course, unfortunately, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals does not have too much power, but it does whatever can be done. You've turned it a little bit into something personal, even political.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39933	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39934	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, I didn't get a warning from you that I speak personally, nor speak politically. I didn't even mention why I heard about legalization, I don't know what the SDP lady was going to say. So, and that's why I don't know where this insult came from, because I didn't mention any name, not a name, not a name. So I don't know what it's really about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39935	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39936	The following is the 2012 report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The 2012 report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals is accepted. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. What's the score? Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, the proposed conclusion has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39937	And we will do more - The proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Council for Electronic Media is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Media has been established that the Croatian Parliament appoints and resolves the President and members of the Council for Electronic Media on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Proposer's representative? He doesn't want an opening explanation. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We will also come forward on the proposal for a decision later. My colleagues and colleagues, that would be the end of today's session. Tomorrow at 9.30 we begin with the Final Bill on State Support. Thank you very much. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-27-0.u39938	Next, the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Electronic Media Council. The debate on the proposal for a decision is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. What's the score? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes for the proposed decision, it has been taken to resolve members of the Electronic Media Council.
