ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56450	Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. Before we start to decide, we will vote on certain points of the agenda and the 2014 budget of the Republic of Croatia first to determine the quorum. Status, numerous state of representation. Before and on behalf of the club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56451	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since the amendments to the Government were late on the bench and given what happened with the Ministry of Science and since we are voting today on other amendments to the 2013 and 2014 budget, I would like to ask for a break on behalf of the Club for half an hour so that we can review these amendments because these amendments are not the benigns that the Government has become. We only got them on the bench this morning, I think it's unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56452	You said everything, we're just waiting to see if any more clubs, yeah. Dear Branko Vuksic, I also believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56453	Also for the same reasons Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56454	HDZ, Labour Party, no one else? Damir Cain on behalf of the club independent, thank you very much. I'm setting a break by 9.45. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:00.34. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Thank you very much. We can start with reports from the clubs that requested a break. The first is the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament and the honourable representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56456	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is extremely unusual for the amendments to the Government to be given practically a few minutes before these amendments should be made known. It is very interesting that, according to the Rules of Procedure of this House, it is defined how and until parliamentary MPs have to submit their amendments and how long it must be between the debate and the time when the budget is to be voted on. But obviously the government's position is better. But what I wanted to say quickly reviewing these amendments is very interesting that the government is changing the financial plan of the State Property Management Agency, not for a small amount, but for a small amount of money. If the amendments were adopted by the government at a telephone session Monday, we discussed last Tuesday and Wednesday what was so terrible that in Croatia it changed that the Agency for State Property Management suddenly came to the realization that it would not make as much revenue as those revenues are less? And the other thing, if someone is already proposing to this Visa House a document then you should know if it puts the total income or the total expenditure, then there can be no difference between writing a deficit but can write as it says in all the other documents surplus or deficit. That's what it says in this document. But very interestingly, then, the government responded with its amendment to what it failed to do through the State Property Management Agency. But we also got the same last week debated and today we will vote on it, other changes to the 2013 budget, yesterday and the day before yesterday the Minister of Science publicly announced that there is not enough funds in its positions to transport and to pay off overtime. My colleagues and colleagues who are the credibility of the 2013 budget? What kind of message we send to both international financial institutions and our potential lenders, potential investors in Croatia when we adopt the document, and now we all know in fact that there are no means of transport provided in this document and there are no means for overtime. Okay, if that's not there in 2013 is that in 2014? If you do not have a single word in your budget explanation to indicate that certain expenditure not implemented in 2013 will be implemented in 2014 then the logical thing would be to ensure this in the positions of the budget in 2014. However, this is not even secured in the positions of the 2014 budget. Honestly speaking, all primary, secondary and higher education employees should be asked what will happen to what belongs to them under the collective agreement next year. Who can take the right to say that we won't pay you because we don't have the money. Our colleagues and colleagues have forgotten that the Fiscal Responsibility Act is still in force, which clearly states if a single budget user, therefore the Head of Budgetary user, exceeds the positions granted by the Government on the basis of this and this House of Auditors must make his mandate available, so he must resign to the Prime Minister. Did you notice that the Minister of Science offered to resign to Prime Minister Milanovic? It's not. And we have a fiscal responsibility law based on that law that he had to do. And the minister, the Prime Minister, should not have adopted that resignation. However, it is obvious that anyone can do what they want and ultimately pay for those who simply have to accept what someone is serving them. No matter what they tell me about teachers, they take care of our children. They are the ones who are very concerned about raising our children because of the overemployment of many in the family, because families unfortunately do not function in the way they should or should. So someone took it as a right to tell those people before Christmas you won't get the costs of transportation, gentlemen you won't get the money for overtime. And we're going to raise our hands today for the 2013 budget rebalances that we're going to confirm, gentlemen, we haven't provided you with money for overtime and we haven't provided you with money for transportation, so you think what you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56457	Thank you, too. Club of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament, club of representatives and respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56458	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, we're not surprised that we got the government's amendments a second before 12, we didn't expect it before. It is only for us to warn the Croatian public, the government's attitude towards the Croatian Parliament. Ministers, when they explain the laws here, always start by asking for a quality, non-political debate, argument based on arguments, discussion based on reading, a debate that will not be a collection of cheap political points. That's what we hear, we always get pucks here. And then what happens, first we adopt laws all by emergency procedure, almost everything, most of the law, the vast majority of the law, we get amendments to budget rebalances, to budget seconds before 12. We bring rebalancing in December when we know that it's just actually a budget rebalancing draw, summed up, taken away and a simple finding. What happened to the budget, the government didn't keep what she promised. But then we see these days that amazing things have happened. The Minister of Education and Science simply says we will not fulfil our commitments from the budget, no one will be cut off, you will get the money but another year. Watch out, people who travel 100 km and more, 200 km a day, won't get money this month. No one asked how they would carry out their work obligations because it probably assumes the government that all teachers, teachers, are enormously wealthy, that each has 200,000 euros in savings, so they will take from the stocking and finance themselves. So the government can even declare a moratorium on pay and say this year you won't get paid, you'll get paid next year, take out your socks, co-finance the state. That's the biggest delusion Kennedy said, don't wait for what the state will do for you, you do something for the state. It's that neoliberal logic of this government. Therefore, even today's debate will show that the government does not know how to do its job and you can see who is unserious, whether it is an unserious opposition or an unserious authority that simply considers this Parliament a ficus and has this Parliament just because we are God's parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56459	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Independent Honored Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56460	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, MPs. Absolutely, the cost of transport teachers should be paid. These 23 million kunas should be found, 23 million kunas and Christmas cards should also be found. These 46 million kunas missing in the budget are about as much as the cost of the referendum. Enlighteners have to get their money, or everyone or nobody. Clearly everyone, both those who work in municipalities and those who work in counties and those who work in public enterprises, ministries, HRT, schools etc. In Istria the transport is paid out of so-called so-called Decentralised funds and transport shall be paid a month in advance. The problem is the jubilee prizes that will then not be paid this year, which are anyway with 5500 kuna for whoever works 35 years at school reduced to 1500 kn. Yesterday, I also said that the state would secure 50 million kuna for a referendum the baker's industry must sell 1 billion kunas of bread. The bread is loaded with 5% VAT, so it should be sold in this country 150 million loafs of bread, Croatians should buy and pay bread for 3-4 months, pay VAT or Mr Linic must fill the budget with VAT in order to raise 50 million kuna in the budget of the Republic of Croatia on this basis. The earth is on its knees, clearly, no one will do anything. It is also clear that the referendums are now what, training the election corps and I agree, everything is legitimate. However, it is not a problem I say neither the referendum nor the question but what is behind this referendum, and what might best have happened, the "best" being expressed in a Vukovar where I dare say in action was an almost crawling coup. Because if the presidents can't walk freely in Croatia then what kind of country are we? But I agree, Mr. Djakic, that's right, why not and against the president can be demonstrated, why not. As in winter 2010, you can walk in Zagreb, but no one can use force. That's actually the point of it all. But to get back to the enlighteners. No, they're not adequately paid, they're underpaid, like many in this country. Who's the most underpaid? Those who work where, above all, in these private companies, those who often know that those who run small societies are also in a worse position than the workers who work with them. The most privileged is also we must recognise the job today in Croatia is a public service job. I don't know who didn't ask me about the job, but not somewhere private, but somewhere in the public service. It doesn't matter if you're in a utility company, whether you're in the state administration. But no one to work for, like, some private. What must have been money to transport teachers, teachers, teachers to be provided, should have been provided immediately. If not in January, but we must see it in the budget documents for 2014. I repeat once again that teachers in this country are underrated. Their incomes may be below the average of the Republic of Croatia and we must not make fun of the whole profession in this way. And yes, he asked Kennedy as my predecessor said a little differently. Don't ask what will, just what America will do for you than what you will do for or what you are willing to do for America and through one such... Maybe sometimes we should ask ourselves what we are willing to do for our country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u56461	Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs must respond to the qualifications of colleagues of Cain, and qualifications... there is no basis in any institution, the democratic institution of the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Moreover, the Croatian Parliament confirms that the highest principle of democracy is the rule of law, and no coup is even the rule of institutions. So don't qualify it, because it's not spoken at the table in the restaurant, it's at the Croatian Parliament. There's no basis for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61387	My colleagues and colleagues will now discuss a united discussion about - Final proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 466; - Final proposal of the Construction Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 467; - Final proposal of the Law on Construction Inspection, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 468. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The amendments can be proud until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received their reports at the sessions. Introductory laws will be explained by the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61388	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So it's about three laws, a law on spatial planning, a law on construction, a law on construction inspection. Since we had one extremely good quality and long-term debate at first reading I will really just remind us of the basic elements and the basic essence of the law and all three laws and I will hold on to some things that have been changed between the first and second readings. When it comes to the Law on Spatial Planning, we are talking about a law that regulates a very demanding and specific area of spatial order, a law that has been structured in a way that starts with some principle of spatial regulation, ends with criminal provisions, but in that law it is important and important, we have put together spatial planning documents or spatial plans in a way that goes from the highest to the lowest, the most state-owned spatial plan, underneath that is the spatial plans of the county, behind that are spatial arrangements of municipalities and cities, GUPs and urban spatial plans. Important newspapers, important importance and essential characteristics are that each of these spatial plans is operational. What does that mean? Any spatial plan will allow for the procedures defined by it to issue local permits or building permits. The state spatial plan following the strategy for which the decision was taken, so in this esteemed House we were already with the amendment and addition of the strategy and programmes, we were also with the report in state and space, based on the reports and conditions in the space, a decision was made on the development of the strategy and the strategy of the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia was launched and before this distinguished House we will come to this document by the end of next year. It is also parallel to the design, i.e. it will be in the making of a state spatial plan. The state spatial plan will define what its name says to define procedures of importance for the state but will also enable the basis of the state spatial plan to define, i.e. the basis of the state spatial plan to issue local permits and building permits for that decision-making level. The local authorisation remains still as a permit for specific procedures or for specific structures, remains for the exploitation fields of mineral raw materials for the reason that the specific regulation leaves the building permit for the basis of the Mining Act, remains for operations which are not considered to be construction, such as pontons, take-off and landing routes, remains for procedures which are complex and their complexity requires a local authorisation to, for example, be it a tourist violence, a hotel or a few hotels, of course the assumption that it will not go into one immediately in the building permit or perhaps will, but that the possibility for such complex procedures to be defined through the local permit of the construction permit phase remains where the extradition procedure is located. And something that was the last time there was no newspaper, and what was crystallized once more in the work with all the ministries remains for military facilities, military buildings that were planned in space. The local authorisation will be issued under this law, based on a specific law of the same area, building permits will be issued. The very process of issuing the location permit is much simpler, faster and more experiential. When it comes to planning, I once again state a provision which defines that all isolated areas intended for the economy, so there are isolated areas outside the settlements intended for the economy, for tourism, for economic activities that have not been started with the municipal equipment of these zones since they were planned within 5 years, or no urban planning as such has been adopted. For the existing zones that are now planned by spatial planning documents, the deadline of 5 years will be from the time of entry into force of the law. And it is proposed that the law enter into force as well as the remaining two from 1 January 2014. A rather detailed area of a special restriction therefore, the protected coastal area of the sea is a term already defined in this respected House at the time when the Protocol on coastal management of the Mediterranean coastal area was ratified. And when it's said to be the area of all local self-government units bordering the sea. So not as it is now in law only a thousand meters from the coastal line for the mainland all the islands but the entire area of the unit. And then we gave one area of special restriction that's a mile from the coastal line on both the mainland and on the islands. Beyond that km can be planned as elsewhere and of these thousands of meters there are certain restrictions. What has been the last news and the paper is for the simple reason why we discussed it through the second set of opinions of the restoring ministries and it is particularly related and was also a request and it is best seen on the example of the Bay of Maloston. The Bay of Maloston is an area that is... from the aspect of nature protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But just as you well know, in the Bay of Maloston, the characteristics are either the purgatory or that's where the farming of shells is. And those who do it and who do it have a big problem because all of their prayers that they come to with the boat so that they can get to their field of concession and those objects in which they buy can neither be planned with spatial plans nor can be legalized in the legalisation process. Knowing of such a problem, we said in law that when someone has more than 10 thousand square meters of concentrated space for that purpose can be planned naturally by a spatial moll based on which they can reach that field and can also plan objects of surface up to 30 squares in which they can then carry out the ransom and other activities they have. Equally, our uninhabited islands are particularly protected, particularly protected through all spatial planning documents, starting with an existing '97 strategy. A year. However, on these uninhabited islands, there is a need for visitation so that for these cases we have also made it possible to have a mole on which excursion ships and boats can come, therefore not something which is in the sense of any port but in the sense of the mole that can then be planned and concessioned and do all the activities that need to be done. The whole process of issuing the location permit is quite detailed. I'm going to talk a little bit more about this procedure when I'm going to talk about the Construction Act. But here, however, I'm going to commit to something that we have introduced into the law, and what we strongly insist on and what is the basis of both this law and the Construction Act, then we're going to say a little bit more detail in some other elements, and that's responsibility. Thus, the whole process is an extremely important responsibility for all those involved in the process. This is the responsibility of designers who still sign projects today, who still hit certain presses on these projects according to special regulations. Who today, in their statement, say that the projects were made in accordance with all the laws and regulations. However, regardless of the fact in the release process, whether it is a location or construction project or a confirmation of the main project, I do not prejudge the building permit. He's still looking into the process, and then, in some cases, he finds something, something doesn't. In the future, by virtue of these two laws, when the designer who is authorized to sign the project he, by his seal, truly guarantees that he has done everything according to all the regulations, all the special regulations. As a result, the licensee is no longer required and no longer obliged, and this is the procedure for the control of the project from that point of view. The project is controlled that the procedure in space is consistent with the document of spatial arrangement because this is what we insist on and what is actually the security of the state to build buildings in space that are consistent with the document of spatial order. In front of this respected home every time I have the opportunity to talk about regulations in our area or about spatial plans, I mention ISPU. I mention the information system of spatial order, mentioning something that's a newspaper but something that's a real need. Why do I mention ISPU? ISPU is the information system on which everything is seen. Therefore, the ISPU shows buildings, the ISPU shows plans, the ISPU will have all the plans that are in place, but for our entire spatial planning process, that is, spatial planning arrangements, the process of making and adopting spatial planning documents or spatial plans, as well as the obligation to ISPU. It's translated into the following. That any citizen at any time can see whether for his real estate, for his land or house he has in the process of making a new spatial plan or changing the existing but can see what was in the process, so what was in the process of making or in the process of making a plan and what plan was adopted. Unfortunately, we have a lot of cases that the plans that have been adopted differ in certain elements from the plans that were in the public debate, and there is a course of opposition. On the one hand, there is uncertainty about investment. So the base of the entire system is ISPU. In the debate that was in the first reading, we also had suggestions that we should define it in one part in more detail and we really did it. ISPU works, ISPU is in use, ISPU and today you can open and you can see for the property that you have in nature, which is planned with a spatial plan, and in fact ISPU is the basis on which we work and base the whole planning process. Construction law. The construction law introduces for the main procedure building permit. The building permit shall be issued on the basis of the main project. We put the buildings in five groups according to complexity or complexity. For the first group, we are on the basis of a debate that has been introduced by a mandatory implementation project, but I repeat what was also in the debate and what was in the debate with the chambers next. The Construction Act speaks about the procedure, the Construction Act speaks about how permits and obligations are issued, and an integral part of what is an integral part of the main project, what looks like an idea project or what looks like an implementing project will define rules, but what in that part is particicipated by the profession, whether we are talking about architects, whether we are talking about builders, whether we are talking about engineers or electricians, this will be defined by the Act on Architecture and Engineering Activities. This law is one of the essential laws that is the way of defining what all professions do and that law will be before this respected home, we are planning somewhere in the first half of next year, and the chambers that have been participating and participating in the public debate and on several occasions we have held meetings, we agreed that by the end of January they will make the first proposals, and then we will work on working groups further. How's the building permit going? The issue of a building permit, I'm trying to describe it as simply as possible even on the parent board that I've been on, on these others because of some busyness, unfortunately I haven't been. So, as an investor, I come to the projector and I order the project, by contract I define our mutual contractual obligations, and what part of the projects I need, which I don't need, which I need, which I don't need, which I don't need. With respect to the issue of specific conditions, restrictions on the integration of municipal infrastructure and, of course, as was always common, it will seem to me this time, to create an idea solution 1,2,3, until I am satisfied with this idea solution that the designer makes for me. On the basis of this idea solution, where specific conditions need to be met, I would like to warn myself that in practice there are special conditions from the point of view of conservation, nature protection, and these other conditions are in fact always under the specific conditions of those laws that we must abide by in designing. I'm going to make a major project, this main project I'm going to get consent and I'm going to get the one... that we all love to have on the basis of such a project and that agreement I'm going to get my building permit. I have to, unfortunately, and all of you have, for once in your life, if not more, gone for building permits or even been designers and participants, and you know that we have that problem that always occurs to us, which is one particular uncertainty. You get consent, you build a building, you come in for a technical examination, and you get someone who's an integral part of your commission, or a commission challenges you, even though you've built a building according to the project and you haven't made any changes compared to the project. I have to admit that we at the ministry with the rest of the ministries participating with one had an agreement and a discussion... five times came in a few hours, to try to make it clear to all of us when someone got the project, when there was a stamp on the project, when it was signed that this project was in line with special regulations, that I'm not citing anyone now, but let's just say fire is an example, when we have agreement on the project and if the building is in accordance with such a technical review project, we no longer have a challenge, it's made in accordance with that project. That's what we have today and that's how it's complicated. There's another one, you go by consent, the projects are made, they're made in accordance with all the regulations and you ask for consent to this project, and in 15 days you don't get it, you file a request for a building permit with evidence that it's been those 15 days. The Office shall once again seek the competent authority and give it a 15-day period, if the competent authority does not indicate within 15 days, so it has had quite an opportunity to do so, the building permit will be issued. I need to say a few words about the e-authority. E-Allocation is a very important project, an important project in terms of all of these things that you have the opportunity to see us do. I have a working name-fixing state in space. The e-registration is at a high stage of completion, not to say that we are testing it within the Ministry, and by law, she and I will also have an obligation, and we will educate all our offices and we will set up an e-authority in all our offices. How does the e-registration work? I submit a request for a permit, I get my number and very simply as I read the newspaper I can follow my license, when received, when the reference was received, when the deadline would run. So, as a citizen, I follow which path is my building permits. What is important in terms of the responsibility I have spoken of and to which I refer all the time. Responsibility means the following. The head of the office sees all the permits and he gets red when someone's his own process, so someone's had 15 days to do something and it's still standing and nobody's doing anything. That's his building permit in red. But what's more important and more important is that we see it in the ministry. So, everything's connected to the ministry, because the ministry's resolution assistant for the area can see that in the office, I don't want any office to indicate that she has 42 permits and that all these 42 permits are off-limits. So it's important, in the system, it's an important responsibility for all of us. Just because we see that they're in red and they're out of deadline doesn't mean we're going under quotes, don't blame me on words, jump over my head. But we need to know what offices are doing well, we need to know what offices aren't doing so well. I just have one thing to do. You won't mind me just one thought in front of this distinguished House. We were not so long ago with the amendment and addition of the Law on so-called. legalization. We have open from 1.12, so better than the other, the second was Monday we see at the level of the day how many items are solved. Unfortunately, I have to say what it was and our suspicions that when they delivered us the number of resolved requests and said we solved so many demands this month. That's one number, and the actual number of requests solved is different. So these are our pains and our facts. The e-registration works in a similar way in one of our county. I asked on several occasions how people accepted it. It has been said that they have accepted extremely well, because then they can control themselves, and then you can control yourself against your colleague who is also working on these jobs. I've really been on the e-allows for a little while longer because she really needs some attention. I'm taking this opportunity to say just two, three specifics about the Construction Act. One specificity is that for all the buildings that have been renovated, which are in the reconstruction process, which is now located in one airspace, we will issue usable permits, which will be the basis for them for the catastrus or building permit. It is equally important to refer to February 15th, '68. Because these buildings will also get their own use of permission. When it comes to the Construction Act then it is important to say the following, which is that the applicable permit indeed in some cases it will be the final report of the supervisory authority. In some cases, it will also be temporary trial work. What needs to be pointed out and said that, in fact, by e-authority, we are really introducing that permits are issued in the same way for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The e-licence also means forms. The same conclusion will also appear in the city of Zagreb and Vinkovci, so the same modality will be published. The same will look like a building permit, which is what we uniformize this complex area. For the place of the Construction Inspectorate Act. The construction inspection law shares jurisdiction between the building inspectors and introduces competence for the communal directors. The communal directors will do jobs for which construction permits are not issued, and for which there is absolutely enough of such jobs. It is tied to fences, it is related to a certain building on a plot that is not needed and will not, neither now nor in the future will a building permit be needed. Equally offered by a debate that was all that utility officers would go to the budget of local self-government units with their fines and charges. So, communal officers are employees and work in local self-government units. And all that they establish and for which it is necessary to give a fine and fine goes to the budget of the local self-government units. This was the last debate, and I said in the final word that we would seriously consider it and try to install what we did. For example, it's really an example to try, I'm always trying to use some examples because then maybe we're all more clear about what we're talking about. The municipalities and cities by the sea have the possibility to ban works during the tourist season. This possibility was left and now in law, of course, with the consent of the tourist community. Today, when they ban works, then the building inspector has to come out, issue a solution by one, so by the procedure that today is who he is. And of course the possible punishment that goes, then goes to the state budget. In the future, the communal directors will do it. So, it'll all be in community and city authority. The municipalities and cities will decide whether they want construction works to happen during the tourist season. If they don't, and if someone builds them, they'll send their communal director out. He will adopt a solution and a fine provided for in the provisions of the law, it goes into the budget of the local self-government unit. It is certainly significantly more operational than it is today for the simple reason that they decide whether to work or not, and then that decision has the opportunity to implement it until the end. When it comes to building inspection, I repeat once again what is important and what is the essence. The essence and essence are in the following. In the future, so our line is June 21st, 2011. When someone in the future regardless of all our efforts and all ours, there will always be illegal construction we only hope to be controlled in less than the past has shown. Someone's building outside the area that's designed for construction. Where you can't get under any conditions your building permit the building inspector comes out and within 8 days brings the solution and collapses. When someone builds in areas designed for construction, so within the construction area, he just didn't come out or didn't want to get a construction permit, then the inspector goes out and gives the possibility to get a building permit. So, fines, the possibility of a building permit coming out, but if that investor doesn't do it in a row, then that will be the reason for the collapse again. But that's the last measure. There's a first measure, here's the last measure. Here, I'm going to the end. Something I forgot to mention and what's very important, and it's about the Construction Act, is this. The building permit can be established on the basis of the project documentation and the building permit is in effect for 3 years. In those three years, we're planning activities and everything. 8 days before the beginning of the work, we have to report the beginning of the work. With the application of the beginning of the works, we have to prove that all the obligations we had to make in terms of municipal and water contribution are regulated and if this is not the same time in the system of e-registration through which the application of the work starts, so for his building permit in the system of e-registration, he says that with the start of the work, you must have a new copy of the catastrian plan, proof of regulated water and municipal contribution, and if this is not done of course at the same time and it flashes and shows that something is wrong and we are closing the site until it is done. So the application can be incomplete but cannot be built until it does everything necessary to do. It's a new system, not until the end of the new but quite new compared to what we had. In making these three laws we've used the experience we've had over the past 20 years, we've been trying to do the best, and I'm actually talking all the time, it's about a state-of-the-art project in space that has several phases. One of the phases was legalisation, one of the phases was and made a report on the situation in space, one of the phases were these three laws, and the next phase would be the Strategy of Spatial Planning and the State Spatial Plan. The state spatial plan will actually show the meaning of Croatia's economy and all the elements to which Croatia goes further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61389	Thank you very much. Branko Bacic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61390	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I refer to the Construction Act because you have explained three laws in the introduction. So in the part where you said that in agreement with the representatives of the expert public, I suppose you would define with the Chamber of Civilians, architects and architects, how you would address certain requirements that the chambers highlighted during the debate, the debates when drafting the draft bill and now the final proposal of the law through the Law on Architecture and Engineering Affairs in the spatial order and construction, and that in that way, if they are justified, you would be able to enter into that law. If we are talking about the same comments, these are remarks relating to the professional methodology of work in the section that goes from the idea project or as you said in your answer that we can... The resolution of the main project and the implementation project is not possible to fix with the Law on Architecture and Engineering Jobs in Spatial Planning and Construction, but the process of issuing the building permit and the necessary documentation for issuing a building permit can only hope that we agree that you and I agree with the parent law, i.e. the fundamental law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The construction law. Therefore, all those remarks that the chamber, both the architects and the builders alike, pointed out during the first reading, were the views of the ministry and the government remained unchanged in this final draft of the law. Therefore, I think that with your best intentions to make a concession to one chamber and another, it seems to me that their essential request cannot be resolved outside the laws that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61391	Replica reply, Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61392	Dear Mr. Bacic is indeed still insisting on all four chambers to be an idea project. I must say that the idea project for the first time in our legislation was introduced in 2007 as an obligation at the time of large construction works, which gave us opportunities to see big investments, and then an idea project was introduced as one newspaper, thinking that we would thus protect space from devastation and construction. The idea project by 2007 was always an idea solution and we were educated in the idea solution by all colleagues and working in the Architectural Chamber, so all fellow architects and myself. I have to say quite openly and clearly that I am interested in the chamber that they have shown absolutely clear because when writing an idea project like that written in law then every investor must do it. There is no need for any investment or idea solution or implementation project. And we give a minimum of what needs to be done is a major project and an implementing project for first-class procedures, and a contract that will be concluded between the designer and the contracting authority will also define the individual phases needed during the design phase. And how the design phases go and how they develop defines the Act on Architecture and Engineering Activities. I have to admit that maybe I'm working in the chamber to maybe insist on the same thing because I know, so I'm protecting my own way to say so, but we need to know in the frameworks that we are and the idea solution where all my fellow architects are and so am I, and here I am, sitting next to me is another fellow educated. So the idea solution, we're not challenging an idea solution anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61393	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't, thank you. I'm opening a debate. It is on behalf of the club of representatives of the Croatian Labour Party Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61394	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I hope this party meeting will pass quickly, inter-partyly, well, then the consultations, it's good that they're consulting. Here's a few replicas first, a few obviouss to this minister's presentation. The Minister said at the very beginning we support all three laws. We talked in our first reading that all three laws were good. It's a good thing some laws have been repaired, very few repairs have been made, but they've heard about what's very important to me and these are the communal directors. The communal directors, however, received precise tasks, which is good. What's important, what Ms. Secretary pointed out is that they're e-authorities, and she said one sentence, you can see it all. Well, at last, one minister said everything is seen and the most important minister said everything is seen in the ministry. Now we know who's responsible for the minister. The minister's gonna be guilty and she's probably the first one to say I'm gonna see everything even though there's something wrong with my portfolio I'm carrying responsibility, she didn't say it, but that's how I read it. I guess you'll explain that. So if someone has 30 licenses that are no longer in red that can work, you said we're not going to jump on his head, you should jump on his head, and you should really jump on his head because if you're not gonna jump on his head I don't mean literally like you didn't mean literally, then we won't do the job, then you won't succeed what you should and what you promised and what we believe because as an expert on this job, you certainly have at least as far as I'm concerned with my trust. You said probably one lapus will still be building without permission, it's okay, but there will be controlled illegal construction, I guess there will be controlled destruction of illegal construction, not control of illegal construction because then again they didn't, I understood as a lapus. I didn't think you meant it like that. Let's go now, you were talking about details. In your first reading, you were talking about details, and now one general state assessment, I repeat, under the general impression, are good laws that we will support. What's the point of these laws? shorter and cheaper to the building permit, environmental protection, protection of the visuality of our beautiful landscape, landscapes and moral protection, because we said that illegal construction is both a moral and not just a legal issue. These laws can be called three in one because so far all the problems of spatial construction, spatial construction, inspection supervision have been contained in the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Instead of simplifying the conditions of construction and thus contributing to investment and production and very useful consumption, and eventually growing where we year-on-year year in front of investors, we put obstacles that could not be skipped by a disruptor, but can of course be money under the table that seemed to be. Except that the laws that should allow, rather than destimulate, construction are complicated, complicated, illogical, bureaucracy is today insurmountable, an impeccable obstacle. And in the debate over the first reading of the laws supported by the Labour Ministers, I wished for happiness, not in battle, but in the war with bureaucracy. As the report yesterday on impressions, feeling or experiencing corruption pointed out, obstacles encourage corruption, meaning obstacles set by bureaucracy. Moving these barriers above all unnecessary, illogical and non-substantial demands, solutions and certificates which are the sole purpose of justifying the existence of individual officials, also means reducing corruption. If other states can skip those obstacles, so can we. It's not an insurmountable obstacle. And corruption in Croatia is perceived by citizens still large, slightly lower than before, but for European standards and now we are formal but not according to the behaviour of Europeans, part of political Europe or the Union is still this perception of corruption, or perhaps then big corruption, but also because of the construction mafia whose roots are not only in the imaginary underworld, some black darkness, but also in the state and local institutions. So the laws and then bureaucratic mobsters dimmed the legal construction of even a hen, our Balkan business. In some Scandinavian countries, they didn't know about the concept of illegally built buildings until they moved in, they used to call it the Jugovic, the gastarbaters from the Balkan spaces. After all, when Croatian trade unionists first asked their colleagues at the international meeting how they were solving the problem of several monthly payouts, they met with confused faces, full of questionnaires about how someone could hire a worker and not pay him. It's incomprehensible to some countries that we're dealing with. How can someone work and not receive a salary for their work, they asked if you had it? You should also bring witnesses to testify in the assembly. There is. Just as payouts are part of Croatian neoliberalism, part of Croatian capitalists' culture, so illegal construction has become a Croatian tradition that one might suggest to protect. On building permits I will only wait for suckers, Ministers do you know how many facilities, schools, kindergartens, sports halls, social homes and other buildings for public use in the city of Zagreb were built without permission and at that time before 90 and after 90*. You'll be amazed at the data. So the state and local self-government committed unforgivable crimes without falling to anyone and certainly not even a hair from their heads. Construction permits were declared unnecessary luxury, construction inspectors only punished those who asked for it. How else would it have been if it hadn't been for the construction of 8,000 objects without permission? If half of that was unnecessarily reported, reported out of fear and 400 thousand illegally built objects is incredibly much for such a small country. And, of course, most of these objects don't belong to stables, woodsheds, and roachs or tractors. Among them are thousands of houses for rent, smaller hotels, villa, holiday houses, apartments for rent. What were the inspectors doing at the time? What were the construction departments doing? What were the local self-government supervisory authorities doing? What was the government doing? Did they not see those who should have been responsible for this condition that several months of tantalum and very expensive pains should pass for obtaining construction. For non-investment, for the disorder in spatial plans, for the criminal re-use of agricultural land or schist in building land, for the destimulation of new investments, for the violation of natural beauty, for the incredible award of the island and coastal land, the bad, corrupt, inefficient system and for all those who managed in these systems without being able or unable to obtain their own gain was the only motive for dealing with spatial plans, by issuing building permits and inspection controls. Even though stories about the furnished spatial plans in the city of Zagreb have been presented for years now, even though concrete evidence has arrived at the address of the state's attorney's office about the end of the already elected spatial plans only now has investigative actions launched. The DORH, as we know, usually has a burn on the whore. Especially when big fish and big money are in play. These days, we have opportunities to read that some until yesterday’s pillars of society were building their grand estates on fire, but with a planful forest fire. Many fires along the coast are suspected to have been set up in these areas. Although there was smoke, even though there was fire, no such case was carefully investigated and let alone sanctioned. Teached by all these experiences, driven into a corner of economic impotence and a clear and loud protest of potential investors about the forest of non-bulent regulations, the government is trying to pave the way for simpler construction. Enable an atmosphere where a building permit will no longer be a bogeyman, an ugly dream, and an incentive for corrupt behavior. There is no deeper, more honest analysis of the situation in the reasons why three laws on spatial planning, on construction, on construction inspection. I guess it's because one of the gentlemen who made it possible or participated in corruption so he wouldn't be offended. The law so far is changing because it was bad because it allowed crime. The suggestions that are ahead of us do not allow crime. They make it clear. They're better, but they make crime possible. And a guarantee of good practice is not the laws but the ones that enforce these laws. That's even more so for those who are responsible for overseeing how these laws are implemented. That's what the secretary of the black red agent said. The government, the Government and the Croatian Parliament whose work has not been completed after the hands of each law have been raised. And we're like a legislative body, a body from which the government is responsible for the state of affairs. These 800 thousand illegally built objects are images of all previous authorities who did not care what Croatia will look like both visually and morally. Why are these construction laws being passed? Now listen. To improve economic, social, natural, cultural, ecological and other reasons. For the sake of even spatial development, coherence, beware now, economic, social and environmental starting points. To connect the territory of the Republic of Croatia with European spatial systems, whatever that means. This set of construction laws is adopted to protect natural goods, preserve biodiversity, protect the environment, reduce the risk of pollution, protect cultural goods, ensure quality and human development of urban and rural settlements, ensure a healthy, socially functional life, living and working environment. Tell me, who wouldn't want to live in a country like that? But it still exists, either only in our imagination or in some other geographical widths and lengths. In reality, corruption and the insensitivity of the authorities, which in order to cover their own incompetence, decide beyond the law and past common sense that teachers, teachers for their own and a few hundred miles long journeys, will not receive compensation this year. It will be easily announced by Minister Jovanovic next year, next month. How teachers will travel from house to job for a month, Jovanovic fucks. Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues in Croatia must change culture, habits must change, government behaviour must be changed first because if the will remains at the top of the government, this law will remain inconclusive. How do you punish a communal director for failing to perform tasks or unconsciously doing his job when a minister like a joke tramples laws? These laws have removed many obstacles, simplified the process of obtaining a building permit and are clearer, more precise powers for those who need to oversee construction. And before that, the implementation of spatial plans. For the good of the minister, I have no doubt in her expertise and determination but let's not forget that her party friend was the first Deputy Prime Minister last year we lost the war with red tape. The implementation of these of the previous better laws against which, of course, all those who have been kicked out of the food chain will not only depend on the minister, but rather on the will of the entire government. But not only the Government but also the societies that need to be more sensitive in practice to the unjust, to the injustices and to the law-playing. We'll get better tools soon after we've passed these laws. Will we be able to work with them or will we want to work with them? Will the inspectors do what the law says? Whether the ministry will stick to its promises and who, most importantly, will remove obstacles that would put bureaucrats before citizens and entrepreneurs despite the laws. If the Minister and Government give very short time answers, but not those verbal here in the assembly but practical, perhaps there is hope to make order in this universal building chaos for which he is responsible and guilty primarily of the system. In good systems with efficient authorities, such riots and such damages are impossible. It would be good to say in a year or two, these laws are dark.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61395	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61396	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vuksic, you're a little bit like this, and I'd say, and I'd do a little bit of that stuff in this pledoaje, but what got me caught up in the eye, and that's why I volunteered for the replica, is that you said that those who had money and the rich did a lot of things that were inappropriate so I wouldn't say criminally to build objects. Well, I just wanted to say it's not always like that. I'm taking an example of the island of Vir where there are 11,000 illegally built buildings, so objects. Of those 11,000 objects, not all of them are who you are, therefore not 90%, or even less than 10%, are even 3%. In 2005, I submitted an application for legalisation and in 2013 I received an answer that I could not legalise according to the regulations that existed. So for eight years, I've waited for a solution to be filed again under this new Law on Legalization of a new request. I didn't run away or any of those 11,000 people are running away from legalizing and making these buildings legal. After all, all these 11,000 people pay taxes on an existing facility. The facility does not exist, it is not legal but is paid neatly and the tax obligation comes. And these people have been paying taxes for tens of years, paying taxes on an illegal facility. When I asked the minister why tax is paid on an illegal facility and says it is a matter of local self-government, they question it although the envelope says the Tax Administration of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61397	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61398	Dear colleague Grubisic, I wish I'd checked out the situation. I didn't step out of the picture. And now you're asking, they didn't just build big fish or elites. I asked a friend of mine who was the director of a company before the public and then turned and normally destroyed, tell me what your problems are. I'm having trouble selling my material, like paint, it was paint. It's hard to sell, but after a few months, it's very easy to sell because half the paint for the boat is missing. And what happens, says all privates paint in the same color. When you give the boss that he can build a mansion at sea big, then you have to let the worker build it himself. That's why I was saying guilty is the system, there wouldn't be 10-11 grand there if they were the first day, first the chief made himself, first the local sheriff made himself, no matter what, I don't insult the mayors, mayors, local sheriffs often be behind the scenes. The system has allowed those who are powerful to do whatever they want. After that, when the system allows them to exist more equally, then they too get a little more promotional about how to exploit these bad habits of the system. And there wouldn't be 800,000 buildings if the system worked. That's exactly what I'm talking about. The system, which was fueled by the forest, say that the former head of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce could build it, is now being written, should be determined, but many doubts were being made, the firefighters said that many plots were on fire because it could be built afterwards. Who allowed it? Was that allowed by ordinary people? Who buried his head in the sand?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61399	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61400	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you have expressed great satisfaction with these laws. Yes, it is a general impression in the Croatian public that these three laws will really improve things and that they will bring about some improvements but you have specifically mentioned the communal directors in which there was last time at the first reading a lot of debates and said it is good that they now have a precise set of things to do and that you should see how they will be responsible for their work. I must say that I am also genuinely interested in what it will look like in practice when municipal directors start implementing this law, especially because we last said that there will be new employment in local self-government if we want to implement this law. So I think there's gonna be a problem, but let's just wait and see that part, so we can say that the law is really as good as you said. Let's just say I'd be even more happy if this law had a little bit more to do with local self-government in some other parts and that the offices for spatial planning were placed in the position that all the cities that could handle it could have it, so that maybe they could have it with gravitating municipalities, and not that it's dividing us again into cities, big cities, and then we have cities of county seats that are often smaller and smaller than some other cities that aren't seats, and then there's another problem that doesn't solve these things again. But maybe it's in some future time. Here's a suggestion, one note, and then these things change. But I'm saying, I'm not really sure that's going to work very smoothly with the communal directors, but we'll see in a short time when the implementation of how functional it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61401	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61402	Dear colleague Hrg, every law is better than Croatian practice, each. No law is as bad as bad Croatian practice. As good as these laws are, we know that in the judiciary we have passed great laws in recent months. Our judiciary is getting worse and worse. Well, it doesn't depend on those laws, depending on the practice. You know well that in many countries Western democratic laws have not changed especially those in the judiciary for decades, that they are tried from the past and the last century by those laws. But it's a practice and people are being called to practice. If we were to apply to practice, don't God forbid we call for judicial practice. So I said a year, a year and a half, we'll be able to tell if it's dark law, if it's a good law. We'll see by practice. If the minister has promised that the ministry will do its best, if the expert team is around the minister, and there are. How do you believe that? Many ministers have said many things. He also said the prime minister would deliver 21 plans, so he didn't achieve a single point of plan 21. You simply trust some people because they're professional, because they've started a big job and because they dare do it. Normally, the minister doesn't have bianco trust, but she said she has a red light so she'll look at the red light and when the red light turns on we'll know very soon whether she reacts or doesn't react. Is it only in the red light that only those who have no connection, and all are in the green, say, SDPs and HNSs that will soon know whether there will be justice or injustice. For now I repeat I believe in both these laws and this ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61403	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club colleague Zdravko Ronko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61404	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here are three new laws made in front of us on the EU tradition and on the tradition of the spatial arrangement that was in Croatia all with the aim of speeding up the process and their transparent implementation in order to reduce the space for irregularities and manipulations. The current law, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, along with some other laws in the area, the Act on Architecture and Engineering, the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions, in order to encourage investment and the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. And a series of other special laws and sublegal regulations regulated the vast matter of the situation in space. This is why, in some parts of the unspeakable, legally technically clumsy and not too secure for investors, he demanded to regulate this matter through three laws – the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction, Construction and the Law on Construction. In order for the Law on Spatial Planning to indeed be in a position of major state-of-the-art state-of-the-art, good tools were needed. One of them is certainly the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, which will be based upon the establishment of the situation, which is those over 820 thousand illegally built buildings to do and legalise everything that can be legalized and put into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. And then, further sharply and promptly confront any further illegal procedure in the space including, of course, the rapid removal of such objects. One extremely good and quality tool is certainly the establishment of ISPU – the Information System of Spatial Planning that allows all interested entities from citizens, investors, designers, architects, units of local self-government, regional administrations, to competent inspections, taxpayers, etc., so that they can get full and complete simple and free information about the situation in space. This, therefore, certainly reform as well as all other laws that need to be passed are related to the process of spatial arrangements that should be opened and open to all available, transparent, easy to act, but which in itself particularly emphasises and includes the responsibility of all participants as well as the speed of decision-making. In the case of the Construction Act, it should be pointed out that this new law establishes this hierarchical relationship between the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the state of the administrative area of construction, and local and regional self-governments which issue a building and use permit, thus evening the law itself. It also stressed the far greater responsibility of all participants in the process of issuing a building permit. As regards officials in administrative bodies and authorised architects, engineers working on project design and who now, by their signature and stamp, confirm that this project is and must confirm that this project has been built in accordance with the spatial plan, this also applies to the supervisory engineer who, for the purpose of issuing the applicable authorisation, has to submit a report as to how everything has been done in accordance with the project. A provision that allows the investor, within 3 years of the issue of the building permit, to get enough time to solve what property-legal relations, i.e. the payment of a water and municipal contribution that we do not need at the moment, but 8 days before it starts, are indeed an additional incentive for investors to invest which we do not need. No less important provision is also the obligation to enter an object in the grantovnica under official duty as well as a provision on the setting of the time limit for the organisation of the environment and the facade of the facility for which the building permit has been issued. And that's very good, because it's not only part of our tradition since Austro-Hungarian but it's good for environmental, energy and no less important and aesthetic reasons. All this means easier and faster licensing, cost reduction, reduction of documentation and greater legal certainty, which is very important and significant. One of the important changes to the law so far is the adoption of a special Law on Construction Inspection in which, for the sake of far greater efficiency, control of the situation in the area, certain powers are conferred to exercise control over construction of buildings for which no building permit is issued and for simpler procedures to be transferred to the administrative bodies of the local self-government units responsible for the tasks of the municipal economy. And that's one of the basic intensities in this bill to transfer some of the intelligence to the communal offices. I can tell from experience that it's very good because at local level we've always had problems with building inspectors and with the situation then in space as we've found it. And other solutions from the definition of what is the ruins and the process of making a solution based on which municipal directors remove these ruins or these buildings, and to the adoption of an inspector's solution on the removal of buildings that are being built where it is not allowed or without the possibility of a building permit and with that fine, and twice in a row, I think the minister said somewhere where the construction is allowed is the last option, and where it is not allowed, it is the only variant. And I think that's an extremely good solution. Also one of the good solutions, we also commend the process by abolishing the right of appeal to an inspection solution. So, and by prescribing the Institute of Appeals directly to the Administrative Court. This increases the responsibility of the inspector, and we believe that this will only help speed up the process. Here, therefore, the SDP club will support these proposals because they are a good basis for resolving the situation in space, for all public participation in the processes of creating and deciding in space, transparency and simplification, for reducing documentation in the process of obtaining permits, for improving the effectiveness of surveillance and for of course more involvement in the supervision of local self-government units. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61405	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61406	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, what I can say at first is that, as Mrs. Minister put it in her opening section, there was almost no significant change in any of the three proposed laws compared to the first reading. As explained by the final draft of the law, the HDZ Club’s comments remain today, because, as explained by the final proposal, they read such remarks not only from the HDZ Club but also from other clubs, any opposition from either the ruling majority of the objections were almost entirely rejected. So that the fundamental objection of us at the HDZ club is primarily made when it comes to the Law on Spatial Planning, we can say that this law is visible to further centralisation of the spatial arrangement in the Republic of Croatia which, in our opinion, is not acceptable because we believe that the system of spatial arrangement and construction in the Republic of Croatia is an existing law, as far as we have found its shortcomings and justified that, in the introduction of the bill, we have pointed out, however, this system of responsibility for the regional and local level is extremely well set up. And we believe that if the Government went into a certain reorganisation of that system that the right of the local self-government unit was achieved was to be detained and it was not necessary then by the Law on Spatial Planning, to further violate the right of the units of local self-government defined by the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government that the decentralisation of the authority of the local self-government units and of the regional self-government in the Law on Spatial Planning should not have been violated. In this way, if the above-mentioned Law on Spatial Regulation is adopted in this form, it will happen to us that without the full participation of the unit of local self-government and therefore under the local self-government unit, we are not only looking for executive authority, current chief or mayor but also for council members, and above all, the interested public in the units of local self-government will not be consummated as it is with the existing laws that have been adopted. In particular, it should be pointed out that the procedure for the adoption of state-level plans as well as the state-level spatial plan and the urban plans of the arrangements that the Government brings in part from the counties are not the same in terms of the content of spatial plans or the implementation of a public debate which I have said in the work concerning when we discussed the first-reading law in the act relating to the Archduke Convention, because the report from the public debate required is not the same when it comes to the production of spatial documents of the state, regional and local level. This decentralisation or centralisation is the information that the Ministry or the Minister of the Foundation of this Law assumes to have the power to appoint the director of the county offices for spatial planning. In my view, the argument that the regional powers are significantly taken is not well enough to allow the HDZ Club to accept that the state level decides to appoint the authorities of the county level such as that, not a very small but very important person, and that is the County Office for Spatial Planning. The real size of the centralisation of powers taken by the state from units of local self-government will be seen when the Government adopts the regulation referred to in Article 56. The law which will determine what structures are of interest to the state level, for the state, for the county level, so which buildings will be carried out beyond the full reach of the local self-government unit, as much as the Government and the Ministry try to reject in a certain way and argue that these plans, which are carried out at the government level, as many units of local self-government participate in their procedure, nor from far as local self-government units participate in the adoption of plans themselves through their own representative body. When I talk about a broken system of spatial order, then I am also talking about the need to draw up a state-owned spatial plan, which, as the Minister said in her introduction, he and all the other plans are being implemented. What does that mean? This means that any document of the spatial arrangement resulting from this law directly determines the conditions and enforcement of the conditions of construction. Now I agree that individual projects that are of national importance and represent important infrastructure corridors, which pass through several units of regional self-government such as roads, railways, railway infrastructures, etc. where the harmonisation of the requirements involves the inclusion of a number of units of regional and local self-government. In this work we may be able to talk about the implementation elements of the state spatial plan in the light of the law, it is said that such a plan existed and was adopted in 1974 and 1978 when the spatial plans of the Socialist Republic of Croatia were adopted. However, when we talk about these plans being implementing, then it seems to me that these plans have been adopted to a scale of 250 thousand and one millimeter means 250 meters where there are no other plans of large scale criteria, it seems to me that such a setting, that all plans in the Republic of Croatia and implemented by me have not been fully worked out, thus being determined that there are strategic documents governing space and implementing documents of space arrangements, have been confirmed that a better quality solution than that offered by the current bill. Moreover, when we talk about state spatial plans, there is a disagreement between Article 67 and Article 70 where the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia and the urban plans of the arrangement are given the same powers. Therefore, Article 67 of the proposal of the law and Article 70 of the second paragraph of this same law, in my opinion and in the other document, confers the same powers on me. Furthermore, what we have been saying, the protection of the environment and other spatial values has ceased to be one of the basic and mandatory content components of the adoption of spatial plans. The mandatory content of spatial plans in the work relating to environmental protection is this law in relation to the existing protection, in particular in the part relating to the protected coastal belt, the protected coastal area of the sea, in Articles 49,50,51 and 53. Now I don't have enough time to explain, that's what I was talking about when I first read. I believe that this law protects space as one of the important components of spatial plans is undermined by the existing law. And continue with this bill of law, so I would like to ask perhaps that the Minister later on says something about it, I believe that she will impose an obligation on the units of local self-government to bring the existing spatial plans in line with this law. And this will mean new non-small costs to numerous cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and to counties in the implementation of this law. That these laws, as I've been told, won't have to be changed within 12 months, as I said in my, in the presentation at first reading, by me, that's not enough explanation. It will certainly impose on this law the need to change the spatial plans of any cities, whether municipalities or large cities and will further make their implementation more difficult. Furthermore, this law increases spatial plans, introduce new spatial plans such as the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, such as urban arrangements for both the county and the state importance. So when we talk about reducing administrative barriers or barriers, it seems to me that sometimes in this law we are in conflict with what this law offers. If I didn't say that this Law on Spatial Planning was still defined, I would say, I would define an unequal position among all investors. When the investor is the Republic of Croatia then the party in the procedure is not a mediocre citizen but when the investor is an ordinary citizen then his neighbour is a mediocre party in the process and it is to me in a certain way talking about a discriminatory relationship with citizens. When we talk about the law, the Construction Act agrees with the minister that the ministry wants to simplify the process of issuing building permits and read these laws. And I would, and we at the club would support this law if we held that it would fully protect investors and that the observation of the profession, if under the profession we mean the association of architects of Croatia, the chamber of architects and construction engineers, that they base their observations on their own interests of the Czech Association. I don't agree with that. I think the investor will be better protected when a fully respected expert approach is made in the design of the project. Is this an idea project, just before the minister said that an idea project introduced in Croatia, regulation in 2007 but also others, Madam Minister,... in the Law of Spatial Planning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if this idea project is so dubious, then we should have removed it from that Law on Spatial Planning and not attacked it in the Law on Construction and left it in the Law on Spatial Planning. If it's not worth it, it's not worth any law. If it's worth both laws, it's worth it to me. Because I think it's simpler for an investor. Even cheaper and less cost him and make an idea project or an idea solution whatever you want to call it, Madam Minister, that it's cheaper than forcing someone to bring in a major project that, for and less complex buildings, will be forced to change. And I believe that the change in the main project for the investor is more expensive than the creation of an idea project. This can be easily checked at prices in architectural jobs how much it costs to make an idea project or solution as we wish, how much it costs to make the main project and how much it costs to make the project. I think that was a better approach. And that a better approach was to establish a project commitment for two more groups of buildings than for the first. And to allow for the second, third and other buildings to have a selective approach in which the obligation to design an implementation project will be defined by the investor and the designer. I think that was a better solution. In that part, I support the association of architects and chambers of architects and builders alike. And I think, Madam Minister, that this is, in my opinion, a personal fundamental objection to this law. And we would have been at the Croatian Democratic Community Club if we had engaged in such a procedure I think the full effect of what you were looking for would have been achieved. And that such an important change will not be achieved by amending the law on architectural and engineering affairs on spatial planning and construction because you have prescribed the procedure by this law. I'd like to make mistakes, and me and the chambers to make mistakes about it, that you're right, but here's the time that's ahead will show. I would personally like you to be right, I have no particular reason to oppose it. Since I don't have a long time, so I'll probably be late on behalf of the club at the end, we've been saying that we're going to set up a debate on behalf of the club for 20 minutes because we're not talking about two but even three laws, but here we are for only 15 minutes, something we've gone somewhere but I'm holding that paying a municipal contribution to the execution of the building permit does not protect the interests of the local self-government unit. I can do this later on in a series of examples I will confirm to you that paying the municipal contribution does not harm the investor, it is not a burden at the beginning of the construction permit, it is not an additional cost for him because he can only in agreement with the local self-government unit to pass that cost on to the subsequent period that you assume and I believe he will do so according to the performance of the building permit. Thank you, Madam Vice President, we agreed that since three laws are being discussed by the clubs, we will define for 20 minutes that we are not here until the end of such an agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61407	No one suggested it, unfortunately here. Replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61408	Comrade Bačić, you are justifiably restrained in optimism because there is no reason to say that you are today restrained in optimism. There's no reason for optimism big, and I have no reason to believe in a better tomorrow, unfortunately. The same ones who allowed 820,000 illegally built objects remain the main holders and enforcers of these laws. Have any inspectors been suspended in the past 20 years? Have any of the building inspectors been removed? Have any ministers resigned? I don't know about any cases, and 820,000 illegally wronged by mocking honest people and an honest part of Croatia has been built. They witnessed the unscrupulous part and the most discrimination in the Croatian people, not only witnesses but also helpers still believe them I have no reason to do so. The end of their healthy eyes in front of their noses was done and built and now they will continue to control, and in this law it is not envisaged again, and what if someone continues to build without permission who will answer? If anyone's going to be relieved, if anyone's going to be out of a job bar, and maybe tomorrow somebody's going to build again. We've neglected everything like we've been neglecting everything. As soon as we go to Austria, the hills and pastures are haired, and in the gardens we grow weeds, and no one has ever paid for it, no one has ever solved it. The whole of Croatia has been burned, no one has essentially determined what it is. Let us pass the law that the burned area will never be built, the fires in Croatia will stop by at least 90%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61409	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61410	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You're right, we've had illegal construction going on under our noses, although not just in the past 10-15 years. Illegal, illegal construction is a monster that started somewhere out there in the late '50s, early '60s, conditioned by a number of reasons: mistrust in the state, a difficult complicated process of obtaining a building permit, unresolved property-legal relations because in the socialist system private property meant nothing, and then no one accounted for it. I agree with you, the reluctantness of a construction inspection in one part, and these are all the reasons why they brought to a large, vast number of illegal, illegal, illegally built buildings in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that the law that was passed in 2011, was later and completed by this government, on the way to determine in a very simple way the responsibility of the building inspector, because now with an orthophoto map, i.e. the review of the real situation from 21 June 2011 can in a very simple way determine whether the facility was built before that date or was built after that date. If it was built after that date then indeed the responsibility of a construction inspector who did not notice it, and has quite the tools and tools available, can be very easily determined and then clearly this inspector and sanctioned. Thus, as much as this law allowed people to legalise their facilities, it allowed the building inspector, the construction inspection, to be tightened, because there is no longer the possibility of any construction happening without him knowing about it. Therefore, I think these laws will make this responsibility of construction inspectors in Croatia very sharp.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61411	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61412	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, dear colleague, you're saying among other things that architects and chambers are rebelling about what is not the obligation of an implementation project, etc. Well, it is quite clear that there are stakeholders in society who are looking for their jobs, but this law is a law that all entrepreneurs very interestingly support. Why, because it simplifies them absolutely completely all procedures and also costs what is clear, and that is the goal of this government to be competitive. When we talk about the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia where the neighbours, you mentioned, do not have the right to object, and even today, the Government has the right and the possibility to make certain strategic decisions in which the interests of the Republic of Croatia come into play, but this Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia is made by the Croatian Parliament as the most legislative body. So we discussed, or you discussed how the director of the office was appointed by the new minister or minister. Well experience and practice I suppose that you also felt very well, has pointed to such discrepancies in the field of leadership and method of procedures in the design of spatial plans, delays, that I am not talking about other elements that existed in the creation and modification of certain spatial plans, especially the county and the convenience of agricultural towards tourism and construction, that introducing responsibilities, you can call it centralised, it is not centralised but the responsibilities of one who ultimately has to give his signature and seal will only speed up the full procedure, unify processes and strengthen communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61413	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61414	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Gjurkovic, you missed everything you said, unfortunately. You are talking about the Strategy of Spatial Planning, it is true, we have brought a strategy of spatial arrangement on everything, and this morning the dead have passed the Law on Roads where we said we were giving up the construction of highways in the Republic of Croatia which was prescribed by this very strategy in the 5th month. So much for when we talk about the importance and importance of this home and when we talk about the importance of strategic documents. As for the protection of the Czechs, I here believe that an idea solution or an idea project, whatever you want, you can call it that was installed and left in the Law on Spatial Planning is a better approach to protecting investors, not a company of architects when it comes to the cost of obtaining a building permit. And it can be done and checked very easily. Which means an idea project, its amount, cost-price, which means the main project, its cost-price, the change of the idea project and the change of the main project. I'm not a performer, I'm sorry. And at the end of the appointment of the head of the county offices. And what is centralised? When something in the mayor's jurisdiction has been taken over by a minister or minister to date, it doesn't matter. If you're defending it by the existing, that certain county institutions have done irregularities, illegalities, so I'll remind you that the change of any spatial plan of the county that can't happen without the minister's consent, you know. Therefore, if some director of the county office missed, he made some mistake anyway, it comes to the ministry's verification and therefore the responsibility for such irregularities is borne both by the central and regional levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61415	Ivica Mandic and Petar Baranovic will speak on behalf of the HNS representative's club. Here you go, colleague Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61416	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, dear Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So I'd start here this debate on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club if it wasn't enough to say, to realize that the situation in space, the state of construction is wrong and that we're sitting down and doing nothing. Just what counterpart Maric also replicated his colleagues to Bacic on this matter, and normally all of us MPs, whether we are left or right, are not satisfied with 820,000. But what we can do is not sit on our hands, try to see what the methods are, what the tools are, how to solve it. What I'd say is that these are very important three laws that we've passed, and most of us have felt at any time, especially when you asked for any permission to build in local self-government units or in the county construction offices. We've seen that procedure not for several months but also for a few years. I think one of the reasons is just to try and sort that part out somehow. What I would say is that the first step in fixing the situation in space that this ministry is headed by these people has given us a substantiated state in the space where we have seen exactly what is in the space and how to protect and preserve space. I think that the laws that we bring here are certainly primarily meant to preserve and preserve the space that is one of the greatest treasures of the Republic of Croatia, but that space is not indeterminate, it is not inexhaustible and all of us are tasked with trying and preserving this space. After that first step that was showing the situation in space we had a second step, it's a question of legalization of objects. We have already heard here in replicas that this number is over 820,000 which really says that as well as the legislative and executive authorities, we did not take good care of this very important resource. What I would say is that with these three laws they pass, that at the level of the Republic of Croatia we have a hierarchy of spatial order. We have at the state level, we have at the level of the city of Zagreb and the county and below the units of local self-government. What I would say and what's very important is that we can certainly put these three laws under the next formula more simple, faster, cheaper, more responsible, and that it's all public. We could talk about this here for a few minutes when I'm talking about simplicity. So far, the procedure for issuing building permits has been going on about a year or so, which means a significant investment, and we have here one document, and I'm going to hand it over to the Minister after I'm done with it to see what kind of relationship the ministry and the regional office are in, and how do we try to support those entrepreneurs who are willing to invest 150 million kuna? Due to one formality, the local office is sending from the ministry, etc. I don't think that's allowed. So what I think is this way we're sure to get is that it's simpler and faster that this process complete should be completed in some 39 days compared to what we had before certainly mattered. And why do I mention these elements, because that is essentially both economic and economic, we will have the opportunity to facilitate access to documentation for investors. What is of particular importance in these three laws would specifically refer to an e-authority which is publicly available visible document and that over 300 days have been allowed, and this procedure should go briefly. What is most important is that this whole procedure and the full application of these laws so that everything can be controlled publicly and followed publicly. This particular public can be one of the best tools in the fight against corruption. What is not public, which is not visible that time, we can certainly allow people working in the system to benefit in a certain way from individual seekers of certain permits. What is most important in these laws is to protect both large and small investors regarding certain financial obligations. So far, it has been an obligation for investors to pay immediately for a construction permit to pay for a municipal water contribution, sometimes even if investors did not go into the investment, and that road was not possible to repay funds. That's what I'm saying. It's really coming in handy. What is also important, and to date no one has mentioned it, that investors are required to complete the facility within 3 to 10 years. What my colleague from the SDP said was part of the culture, the question of the façade arrangement, and I think it's the right thing to do and the good thing to regulate it legally. What is news that so far has been a building permit for two years so it could be extended, now that building permit is in three years. What I would say is that these laws certainly correspond to our entrepreneurs to the greatest extent that they will play a certain role both economically and economically, and that the investment climate will be significantly improved. What I would particularly like to point out is that in all this, the question of the public is certain that she is present and that she will be the best coordinator of all of this. What I would say at the end of the appointment of directors by county offices, I think the minister is also responsible and he is in charge of implementation. A colleague, Peter, will continue even though there is, for example, a very important information system for spatial planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61417	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Minister with his associates. About this package of laws in the shortest lines, I don't have much left. The very intensity of the legislator is that the whole forest of laws and novels of these same laws that have appeared almost at a one-year pace precisely because of the failures and bad experiences in the implementation of the law itself is therefore that it is a good idea to bring it down to three legal documents, because whoever is using these laws and who is referencing them will be much easier to cope with. In his presentation as well as in his first reading, Bačić apostrophetrated the issue of centralisation and in some ways stressed that this is a fundamental weakness of this legal idea and this concept when it comes to spatial planning. However, too many of us here are sitting out of the local self-government, too many of us sitting here in the local self-government, too many of us in this hall ladies and gentlemen sitting around who we know what it looks like in nature, who we know how many spatial plans from the lowest to the order that belongs to you on a level should be brought in because of the complexity of the concept so far. We all know very well the political reality and the level of the achieved culture of political responsibility in the Republic of Croatia and we all know very well what the expression of the legs in the door means. That foot in the door in the context of spatial planning is all spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia I will be free to give an estimate at least on average by 100% slowed down from the deadline within which they were able to realistically implement that we had the situation described in this law. But we didn't, we had a complex system that might work in an appropriate way somewhere else, but the practice in Croatia has shown that this is not right for us. In this law, in any case, some newspapers should be welcomed because both in the context of the Law on Spatial Planning and in the context of the Law on Construction clearly define the responsibilities not only of the powers of individual institutions. It should welcome the descent of certain powers and to a unit of local self-government, i.e. to its municipal department, in particular by giving the possibility to the communal directors to carry out certain types of supervision for which they have not had the authority so far. Also informing, introducing ISPU, asking questions also from the esteemed representative of Bačić on the appointment as he expressed himself to the Director of the Office for Spatial Planning is going to use his expression from the replica shot to empty because it is about giving prior consent to the appointment, the issue of granting consent is known to the Institute in our case when it comes to health and education. And so far, we have had in the laws of the Republic of Croatia for practical reasons the power of the minister to give consent to the appointment. Gives consent, doesn't appoint. It's a big difference. A equally respected counterpart, Maric, said that no one has ever resigned and that no one has ever been able to bear any consequences for inaction in the control of illegal construction. That's not true. There was a chief building inspector who had been replaced by the coalition government between 2000 and 2003, so the HDZ that had previously brought her back to office again had to be replaced by the inaction and ineffectiveness of the system for which Minister Ivan Vrdoljak was responsible as the predecessor of the distinguished Madam Minister. So it was changing. Those who do their jobs were not replaced, but those for whom there was at least a responsibility because of the poor functioning of the system did not have to be intentional, but it could be an objective situation. Finally, this law has also adopted simplifications in issuing construction permits, and it has eliminated us in HNS according to the assessment of the applicants and we in HNS have some unnecessary steps in certain situations and we all know very well that the steps in this business are very expensive. What we welcome is also giving great cities the opportunity to form their own institutions because large cities are, in principle, administratively large areas where there are a large number of construction procedures, where there is significant activity for this reason as well as in the context of some other laws such as the Law on Maritime Good or the Law on Education, large cities have a special position, so it is good that the legislator of this package recognized the role of large cities. Finally, we believe that the practice and results so far measured in hundreds of thousands of illegally raised objects showed the weakness of the legal matter that covered this area, showed the indeterminateness of these provisions, did not build an effective system of supervision and what was built into this law and the ambition of the legislator to stress once again that through the very clear definition of the powers and responsibilities of all actors in the system, we hold that, with this legalisation process, it will finally open up a new page when it comes to the urban picture of Croatia. The HNS Club will support this law anyway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61418	And now the replicas of the exhibition of fellow Mandic. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61419	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Coliga Mandić, in my opening presentation, I said, later and in the replica, I am not sure, we will see, will show time for this process of coming up with a building permit based on the main project for me and knowing the procedure so far means to represent more funds than that same issue is based on an idea project solution whatever you call it. The second thing, to justify centralised by the poor work of certain county administrative departments, is that we will therefore take away their state powers or institutions and centralise these powers is not a good approach. I know that in the Croatian judiciary before and today there are a large number of pending cases in municipal courts, based on the level. This did not result in the centralised of certain responsibilities of municipal courts, but rather through the assistance of these same courts in professional and humane terms, the cases are resolved rather than by the removal of powers due to the possible poor work of a particular municipal court. And the third thing, Madam Vice President, let me tell Mr Baranovic that the shift made by Racan's Government in 2000 and this government, according to the construction inspection chief of the time, was solely the result of the political indifference of the lady rather than her intricacies. I don't think it's good for my colleague Baranovic to talk about a person who is extremely professional, valuable and who has made a huge contribution to the ministry's work in this way in the Assembly to discuss and justify political shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61420	Dujomir Marasovic, replica. Excuse me, colleague, for the reply to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61421	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think I picked it up in time. Well, here's a respected colleague of Bacic's with the adoption of these three laws, surely the responsibility of the ministry and the minister is much greater, but I think we'll agree that you and I have had one system that didn't give good results, that he was slow, ineffective. I expect that these measures, which we now pass by law, will go into function of quality and speed up the process. What I would say in the election, if I had been narrowed down here precisely on the subject of expertise and that no matter who it was, the Minister or the Minister in agreement with the people of the county would see what the best solutions were because we've had cases so far that individual directors weren't so, they weren't answering to the mayor, you know what we Southerners are all, the ones that suit you, and so do you. I think it's centralization in one hand, but it's even more of a responsibility. I'd rather put this thing on the line and then the ministry and whoever's head of the ministry takes a big commitment. Me and us at our club agreed that it was so good and so we would think that anyone else, because if we have a system that doesn't give results then I'll say again what I said at the beginning, we can't sit around and wait for that permanent system to fix the job. And I believe that these family or these first measles will get over you and that we will eventually remain those people who are professional regardless of political resemblance because here are the people who are professional and who need to do real jobs. What is most important is that we must have a system that is functional, which will deliver results, of these results will be satisfied units of local self-government and county and ministry and parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61422	Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61423	Honored Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, you have carried out two missions. First, the sense of keeping space, one and the other and Mandić and Baranovic and simplifying obtaining permission, so now who will answer, and Madam Minister, I would ask you to pay attention to this other issue, in my form of replica, I was not at your presentation to tell me anything about simplifying the license. The point of keeping space isn't just enough to want to keep space with this or any law. You need to improve the living conditions in that space, you need to make the roads of the local road, you should make it take that you need to make access to the sea, I from Split to Omis have no possibility of access to the sea to bathe with the child. That's the point of the country. It's not that, it's not just allowed to be released to the local administration. Every 100 meters you break in with a bogeyman, 3 meters from the highway to the sea. That's Madam Minister's role. Because there's no local power community for that. And gentlemen, as far as wild construction is concerned, wild construction saved Croatia in Split by the mind of the communists would only work JNA for Serbian officers 5, 6, 20 buildings because she was the only one with money and the rest of the people had no place to work because she was nationalized from Trogir to Omis roughly. I know that because my father bought me 2, 3 lands in Split. I couldn't work on any of them because everything was forbidden. And we had to work wild. And thank God it was like that. And thank God there's order in place, I am for us to stick to order now. But what about simplifying the permit. There are 5.6 building plots in Split, everyone around me was changing space and getting skyscrapers. I stayed still on what was determined 40 years ago by individual housing building houses, that ground floor. And now I can't get my license because after 40 years I started looking for it, I've been doing this Assembly and nonsense and now I can't because the city of Split has determined that there has to be a road to get a building permit. Linic will charge me taxes on it as real estate I can't, can't Madam Minister, question, please, I'm late for your presentation whether it's your law, can you get a building permit, it's envisaged and no road in nature [[Employer: Kologa Marasović, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61424	The Minister will have an extra watch for you. I'll have the Minister's extra watch for you special. [[/Intruder: What?]] Ivica Mandic's reply to the replica. [[Well, I'm here to take advantage of...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61425	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Marasovic, so here's what you'd say is that in one large part of your vision or your replica, I agree. That's exactly what you said about who the apartments were building. So now we legalize you who worked in private. What I'd say is that when I was talking about keeping space, I didn't mean just declaratively, there I really meant it couldn't be allowed to be anyone who wanted to break paths, right by the sea. It is therefore a responsible job and it is a responsible job not only of local self-government but of the county and ministry. Here, under special or special protection of the state, we must keep that space that I do not know in national parks, which is next to the coastal area and we must not allow intervention. It's better for me that these are simple paths than if someone had installed some kind of concrete that doesn't fit into space. Therefore, there I also agree with you that we must keep space and organise everything that we need to change that space to be, that it does not essentially offend and destroy space. Because I said in my debate that one of the greatest treasures that the Republic of Croatia has must be its space. Because in these 40s, we haven't destroyed it so much in 50 years, and it's up to us all to be responsible for each other and for the third to save that space for generations to come. And everything we intervene in space should be according to the rules of the profession and some people who take care of the spatial arrangement, about the arrangement in the urban space that time to stick to the profession and I think it'll be all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61426	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61427	I just wanted to point out what you said about simplicity, speed and transparency. So when we passed the Strategic Investments Act, then many debated and spoke, and what about all those investors who can't get into those frameworks that are in the strategic investments of 150 million kunas, or 20 million for islands, etc. Well, that's why this reform package of laws, so to speak, is this package of laws that ensures both simplicity and always and above all transparency, i.e. the public's ability to see exactly what and how. And, of course, the licenses that definitely speed up. And besides, you get those responsibilities. So there's no more paper walking around in some shrimp, what would they tell me down there, or in a drawer. So you're tracking the documents correctly, and you're basically getting that speed, and there's no cover-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61428	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61429	Here's a nice colleague. So it's precisely the goal of these new three laws to speed up processes, to come to transparency and to prevent both corruption and the possibility of malfeasance. What is most important with the establishment of ISPU is that we will have both measurement and surveillance and that it is all public. Nothing's in a drawer, nothing's in a room, some ministry, some office. Therefore, I think that the goal of all of us acting in public life in political life is that this is all that we do to make it visible to all citizens. If you've filed a request and you know exactly at any point in time when it's stage and processing when it's not. And exactly there are deadlines. I think it's just as good as what this law has said within what time limit has to be solved. You can't stall for five months. I think it's also one of the transparency that deadlines are visible and that responsibility is sought. What we had no responsibilities so far, remained, accidentally stayed down in the fifth drawer, after a year came the turn. He didn't come up because you didn't stick anything on the side. But this is exactly how you are now clear you have submitted your document in which time must be answered. If you don't respond, you have a second-degree automatic ministry. I think transparency is both the public and the availability of data.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61430	Now at the presentation of counterpart Baranovic's replica again, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61431	If they were to say replicas within clubs, it's usually in a fellow opposition but what I really wanted to highlight is what Mr. Baranovic said and that's how long these processes are and they're slowed down and the system is complex. So this reform of the very system of spatial planning, of spatial planning, of building is essentially extremely, extremely complex. The arrangements of settlements, economic, social activities, the network of infrastructure are the basic things of planning first at the local level and county and then at the state level what is extremely complex and responsible. And what is also important is that all criteria that are in the case of further changes in spatial plans are as transparent as this law provides throughout the process of simplifying all adoption of documents, acts and procedures. When he talks about slowness, he wants to point out once again that we are aware of the facts, for example. Split-Dalmatia County, which has been doing changes and additions to the county spatial plan for almost 4 years. For 4 years they had a certain part of the investor waiting and then, of course, expected because he was not sure if it would pass, whether they would not pass, and had certain funds, they had an opportunity behind them to start certain investments. With this law, we're breaking these key things right now, and we're simplifying what's important, and we know it's so-called. bureaucracy or administration slowing down the process in obtaining permits is one of the key problems for Croatia's development and competitiveness, and this is what it gets.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61432	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61433	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, my colleague Gjurkovic, I mentioned the efficiency of the system so far and the cooperation between different instances in vertical spatial planning. In practice, it looks something like this. When you have one power in a big city that is consistent with the authorities at the county level then in a big city all his ideas, all his projects and all his ambitions pass. When three hoodlums are found who defeat that power, then those in the big city come quickly, regardless of what is the second location thanks to the construction of the wind power plant, there is no need in the area of the big city, such as Sibenik, to have more in the county plan harmonised wind power fields. Then exploiting fields for extracting architectural stone in which people invested money in interrogation, research, to open investments, start an economy and go into business, these research fields not to go into exploitation but to wipe out. Detailed plans of the arrangements that envisioned one content that has an economic character suddenly become unacceptable although they were previously blessed and adopted, are being made to the changes according to which this should go to the public category of course which would be the basis of another special law under the authority of the county... the Italians, etc., etc., etc. And that's why we've had damages in billions and billions of suspended investments, and it's good, thank God someone remembered to write what the lawmaker wrote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61434	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61435	Thank you very much. Greetings to the minister with co-workers and colleagues, a respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I flew a little bit, given that my colleague Baranovic caused me to do just this with his last or last sentence where we have and we know where we are headed about the local self-government situation, and Mr. Mandic was saying that in Slavonski Brod the government therefore has a chance to gain and that the private investor is investing in a cogeneration plant, the thermopower plant, is being prevented by the decision of the local government, the local self-government with this, most likely here, Mandic, I said that he was preparing another space so that it would not be competition, so the same facility but gas, so on fossil fuel. One must be eliminated. In this decision he accepted to do or to cut to say as a Gordian node the head of the local or mayor of Slavonski Brod, and now according to this new one, things are now also according to these legal proposals, I think the last word will say to the ministry what is good. At the end of the day, let them be both drives so that there may be competence, so let it be a competition, so that whoever produces more rentable heat and electricity will survive on the market. After all, so are society, and so we wanted to hold a referendum in '90. For years, so be it for us. In the meantime, however, a number of problems have arisen and numerous investments, such and similar bans, have been lost. Therefore, these three laws, hence the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning, the Proposal for a Law on Construction, which bears an E mark, therefore European harmonisation with standards, regulations and directives of the European Union and the Proposal for a Law on Construction Inspection, which has a total of 475 articles, and it is difficult to comment on them all except in general, because for each article written here in the laws would be sufficient for us for these 20 minutes, so we would only have 2.5 seconds at our disposal under one article of these laws. So 475 articles, and 1200 seconds, 20 minutes. Well, it may be good, in fact, from all those comments that were in the debates before, to learn some lessons, and to conclude and make a statement about the acceptance of these legal proposals which are actually one whole, the arrangement of construction, spatial arrangements, faster obtaining building permits, and then, in doing so, the greater possibility of coming or entering investors and investing in the Republic of Croatia, so in one whole where there were comments, I will start from the beginning. And that is what it is, which is noted in statistics and the State Statistics Institute, data from the State Statistics Office as well as data from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce will not now talk about other things about HGK. But the decline is observed, the decline in income in the construction of the Republic of Croatia, and this has been seen in the last two years since 2011, is not yet completed but in 2011, so the total income in the construction of the Republic of Croatia was almost 45 billion kuna. In 2012, only a year later, there were 42 billion kunas, down by 6 and a half percent. The works carried out in the construction of the Republic of Croatia have also fallen by 5%. Productivity of construction works, i.e. after employed 34 000 euros in 2011, and 2012. 25600 euros. And don't let me pick up all those, so I don't bother you with numbers. Overall, the number of construction workers also fell by 7 and a half percent in 2012 compared to 2011. Building is lower by 4.4% in 2012 compared to 2011. Also the physical scope of works in construction, as well as the number of approvals issued for construction in the Republic of Croatia. This approval number was 9601 in 2011 and 8330 in 2012. Why did I list this data and extract it from the National Statistics Institute of Croatia statistics? Well, because it's all seen, one is the crisis and recession, and the other is the disorder and inconsistencies that have somewhat prevented investors from being more active in this sector. It is said that the new law cuts red tape, cuts bureaucratic procedures. Furthermore, these laws are somewhat contrary to the current previous documents, some of which are, and some of them even brought this government, so here we are having second thoughts again. What to say is that it is precisely, therefore, the approval or consent to appoint a director, as they are called the Director of the County Office for Spatial Planning. Therefore, only consent not only to appoint or choose, but to agree as it was before in terms of mandates and other governments. So, the minister gives consent. The Minister of Health gave consent to the Director's choice, to say from his own mind, to appoint the Director of the hospital. If it is to be implemented, there is to some extent centralised as one colleague here said in the debate, but if you are to implement and if you are to implement the ministry's policy according to all those standards that are written here, then it is likely that there must be a person who can have it on the ground in local, regional, or regional self-government and perform it. How else do you do that? The information system she talked about a lot of ministers is a good thing. However, I must say from this system anyone who enters and who is using the Internet or a computer can enter the ISPU, so the Information System of Spatial Arrangements and Spatial Plans can enter and see the exact situation on the ground. However, we have not received perhaps a comprehensive explanation of how much further information and information spending will be required in order to achieve this. We now know that here, starting with mobile networks, you don't even have a broadband internet everywhere. You often can't come in or wait very long to get the data from these. So, will all of Croatia be able to access the information offered by ISPU is difficult to say. But all in all this time when a man who doesn't know that technology is actually, and you can say, I wouldn't want to offend anyone half-literate, not illiterate, and when almost, when bank accounts are paid online, then it's really a good thing that we can see both the buyer and the seller and the investor exactly, and not possibly fool him, cheats, etc. He can see exactly the situation on the ground as he offers and as it is listed in the ISPU. I was talking in one replica about how I was personally affected by the wave of all these constructions and on the basis that many people, therefore, bought, built, and that, on the Vir, I speak to the island of Vir of their holiday home. And I as a doctor made a small house and asked for legalization and I couldn't get it and I said that after 8 years I got the solution that I couldn't legalize. So just before July 1st this year, I was asked to legalize the house before I made a new application for legalization. But that didn't stop the state tax administration, the local community from paying our taxes neatly, and the tax on illegal property, the object that doesn't exist, isn't drawn, it's not even in ISPU in anything, it's gone. But you have to pay the tax, yes. Now, how come? How is that possible? Is that indistinguishable, illogical? The mayor, so he's not the mayor of Croatia or I don't know what or the president of Croatia, he's not the Tax Administration, he's not Mrs. Nada. But the envelope on which the stamp of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Croatia, the Zadar Station, was struck, it arrived neatly. It doesn't say "Vir." Furthermore, when we tried to make a request two years ago and a law in the form of a legal proposal for legalisation of agricultural facilities in order to enable our farmers to legalise their facilities to run and compete for European peasants because if you do not have a legal object stable with 100 cows if it is not legal, you cannot appear to withdraw funds from the EU. We asked for it to be legalized, so almost free of charge with that state tax, etc., a very relatively small amount. Why? Well, because he's really loaded, we all know the state of the village and the peasants. But to benefit from these peasants withdrawing money from pre-accession funds and now-accessible EU cohesion funds. Both Serbia and Slovenia did. Both states. And five, six years ago. They are not candidates to join the EU, but they did. 150 thousand say there are agricultural facilities in Croatia that could be legalised in this way. Someone will say and lift the line that it's discrimination. Well, it's not the same farm and some kind of weekend house or holiday house at sea. They don't have the same status, they're not made for the same reasons. This is a productive facility, an object that produces something, and that's where you're staying for 15, 20 days at sea. So there's a difference. But our reasons are not the reasons of the HDZ that we have stated at the time are neither respected by the HDZ government nor by the SDP Government, or the Kukuriku Coalition. And now we all legalize on equal terms, so then we know the prices of legalization of agricultural facilities and those up to 200 squares over 200 square meters, so it seems to me that it's such a limit, so it's huge amounts that go back to several hundred thousand kunas and that a farmer can't pay, he can't. He's too in charge of getting tractors, tractor connections, farm throats, etc., he can't. In addition, we know in dairy what the situation is and how the dairy industry treats milk producers, starting from a low purchase price to the constant determination of aflatoxin, so the dairy industry determines aflatoxin, not the State's veterinary inspection. So it's the dairy industry that's competent and it's given the opportunity to determine the amount, the concentration of aflatoxin in milk. Now, inspection, we're talking about communal directors here. I know some and personal communal directors on Slavonski Brod. I don't know if these are the people who are going to perform and actually partially oversee the construction of Slavonski Brod. Well, these people have four grades of elementary school. Well, they can't, they just watch where someone parked the car on the lawn and attached the fine. If they will perform and control construction Well, I've got 20 minutes, not 15, because that's three laws, right? [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring an end to the debate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61436	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61437	All right. So if you're going to do that without some kind of education, some kind of training, no extra education in that sense, then that's really funny. ... The course, the course is Croatian. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, on the very legal proposals that have good intentions, we'll still be Let me just say one sentence. [[Strebec: You have replicas so you will.]] So, at our club, we'll consult, and by Friday, we'll decide on acceptance. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61438	That's it. Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61439	Honored Madam President, Minister. My colleagues Grubisic, you're excused I'll make it seem to me that you've been caught in the afternoon sleepiness and fictitious and that you should urgently go down to the cafe and have a black coffee to clear your thoughts because I can't believe you said that the disorientation of space prevented the construction activity of what happened in the last two, three years that shot went down. ... The construction operation and construction profession and the construction industry have hit Croatia's government's policies steeply below, primarily Mr. Linic, who has recently been understood in everything and most of all in health care. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And he declares the primarius that the primarius became 70 years ago and receives something from the state, and now he's a thief instead of taking it from him, but don't make him a thief. And he's on his tax press, I don't have time to say in the form of a replica what he's done, and he's made it that if I have 100 thousand euros on the bank, the smartest thing is to buy one crate in Zagreb. That's about what it costs. 50% of it immediately goes to the state directly and those 50% indirectly almost in most cases return to the state. This policy has led to me keeping 100,000 of my euros in stockings, cutting them off, burning them even in madness I will not buy that crate in Zagreb. For whom I will find a tenant to pay his taxes and declare me a thief and put me on a pillar of shame for that crate bought in Zagreb. He's destroyed by politics, primarily, but he can't do that part of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61440	This wasn't on the show of colleagues Bora. We could have the same coffee. Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61441	What you've replicated to someone else, I haven't said anything about what you've been talking about so far and what's burning, tent down. As far as these laws are concerned here's someone said this before that these were before the dark laws, if they alluded to the name of our minister but the laws are such that they should be considered well because they are indeed a good attempt to settle this problem in the Republic of Croatia. And we can have coffee right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61442	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61443	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have rightly warned your colleague Grubisic, i.e. you have stressed the need to make available to citizens all information regarding the spatial arrangement. I'll tell you an example as to the city of construction inspection which should also be seen what they do and how they work and why they work. A few days ago, I sent a letter to the minister through the President of the Parliament, prompted by citizens' reactions in the city of Dubrovnik. At one location in a well-muffled part of the city of Dubrovnik were built, i.e. the antenna pillars of telecommunications operators of course illegal, and two years ago about the end of November 2011 the ministry issued an order to remove these antennas. But to this day, nothing happened. The building inspector who is sitting in Dubrovnik said that there is a company waiting to arrive at the competition to get a job removing illegal objects and when they come, they will remove those facilities that are located on one building, otherwise there are some 28 antennas on that one object that... Of course, people around here die of various diseases, of course it has not been proven to be an antenna, of radiation, etc., but it is clear to all of us that it is quite influencing, so the question arises whether in this case the minister should give an answer to the question why the civil inspection does not act by order or by that solution that only the ministry chose two years ago to remove the antenna pillars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, a few thousand citizens signed a petition. I ask you, Madam Minister, to clarify this issue because it is indeed a matter of a few thousand citizens who have signed a petition to remove 20 and some illegal antennas on a building that obviously threatens the lives of fellow citizens of Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61444	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61445	My colleague Matušić, and you have little use of this speech of mine, and then you have mentioned one example, although I do not think such examples are the same, but there are hundreds of such examples where citizens ask me to say help, seek justice and justice in relation to construction and this problem and spatial planning and construction. Here from your county there's also one complaint from the island of Šipan and Sujurdja, is that what it's called the place where everyone around the man has made one more floor and the man who has sought legally through the institutions so he's told that he can't because he has a historical object of the church and that she might be covering with that of his, and everyone around him has already made a floor more than he does, so he who goes legally and peacefully and through the legality, he can't get and these are made, now he'll legalize, and he can't legally exercise his right, right? So we could all be here, we have absolutely certainly those who complain, people who complain from their field of injustice, irregularities, and here's why I'm saying that these laws should once regulate everything, and legalization will do more of their own, and then let's start from what they say from zero there's an expression for clinstart in construction, spatial editing, inlandstart there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61446	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61447	Thank you very much. In your presentation, you were talking about having some kind of house on the Vira that you can't legalize. You've got problems. And it's not only a problem that you can't legalize it, you won't even be able to sell it because if you can't legalize it, you certainly don't even have an energy certificate, and today it's a big problem Article 24(4) says that all those who advertise agencies that stress about the property that advertises the sale of these real estate buildings have to specify and class section means in terms of energy efficiency. In this business today there are many companies, many businesses, between five and 30,000 kunas. We today have tens of thousands of advertised buildings, by applying this law with this article and paragraph four, they will all be in trouble only one control over the work of such firms, fines as much as you will, we know that the energy certificate must be held at the moment of sale. But now it's being introduced here at the moment of advertising, and we're in trouble. This is what should be removed from this law if we want to save at least a few hundred jobs because everyone will find themselves in trouble with such a way and with criminal provisions. So do you, Mr. Grubishic, if you want to sell it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61448	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61449	Thank you very much, fellow Boric, I don't mean to sell it, I won't have that problem. After all, down south in the Adriatic part of Croatia there is no problem with the cold and others. Well then, according to that, we'll see. But as far as legalization is concerned, she has entered the legalisation process and there will be no problem, all the objects that are on the Vira except those that are truly extremely built near the sea or I don't know what, will not be legalized but mine is not so close to the sea. Don't worry about me. And the energy certificate is something that has long been known in Europe. Therefore, we are part of the European and European Union, therefore, and this Law on Construction and Wearing the E. Although, perhaps some kind of transitional period or period of time to say that it is Croatian, it would be good, given that we are not even prepared for an energy certificate. And while I'm selling, if I'm selling, I'm gonna fix that house, so I guess I'll be able to sell it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61450	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61451	Thank you, Vice President. So, a respected colleague you are through one such personal story, through legalization not only showed the absurdity of that life I will not say 800 thousand objects or citizens living in objects that are now in the legalisation process so they were and were not in those facilities because they were not legalised and on the other hand they should not pay, etc., which shows once again what it means in essence legalization in the life of Croatian citizens and that large number. But you showed essentially why this law, the law in particular about a construction inspection that was a little less debated in these introductions. And what you've finally touched with a certain doubt about how it's going to work or not on the ground, whether it's dressed or not, is essentially one of those keys that never happens to us again to have illegal objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61452	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61453	Well, thank you very much, fellow Gjurkovic, and finally we have a common language between you and me in the current course of this assembly, we usually didn't have, we didn't speak the same way, in the same language. But let me just tell you that, for example. There's that tax on an illegal non-existent house that I have and... It's 1200 kuna and 800 kuna garbage transportation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For those 15 days that I spend at sea and spend 2, 2.5 thousand equal cost me that so-called. directs with taxes and waste of garbage. So one wonders what kind of a house that actually makes sense when for four thousand kunas, two of which I would spend and two of what I would pay for these directors can go to a different place every year for 15 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61454	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Ljiljana Cvetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61455	Honorable vice president, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the law on construction is incorporated into the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the energy efficiency of buildings. Respecting the obligation to adapt Croatian legislation with European intermediaries and real estate agents, they expressed particular concern over the provisions of Articles 25, 26 and 194 of the proposed Construction Act and regarding energy certification. Although the obligation and criminal provisions for the owner of the building have been introduced, unless the sales ad lists an energy certificate, criminal provisions are also prescribed for intermediaries if it publishes an ad without an energy certificate. These proposals are completely unacceptable for a number of reasons. First of all, no one has anything against energy certification but intermediaries and according to existing regulations warn owners of the necessity of the above. At the time of the acquisition of the property, they agree with the owners who ensure the production of the certificate that they must definitely make it by the time the purchase is made, and it actually works. Most people don't have money and many apartments are sold because of trouble. Owners are willing to pay for making certificates when finding a buyer but not before because they simply do not have the opportunity to pay. If the proposed measures are implemented, real estate owners will not be able to sell real estate through advertising because of the threat of punishment and then even intermediaries will not be able to sell it. As a result, there can be a reduction in sales and losses for all, intermediaries, advertisers and ultimately the owner who will not be able to sell the property to the sales channel. If the sale is not sold for the same real estate, or the energy certificate will be produced and, ultimately, no renewal will be carried out which is the ultimate objective. A buyer who could be insolvent and refurbishing won't make it to real estate. In an already damaged market and property traffic of more than 50% in the last 5 years, it could be a final blow. If the Agency also suffers from certain agencies, it will not withstand the payment of the prescribed penalties. All of this results in a lot of vagueness and illogicalness, which is precisely thought to be an ad? Written media, Internet media, advertising boards, databases on the Internet. Control of all of the above. Will the owners and agencies who have their own address and office be punished in proportion? And if the owner will be able to put on a board with a sign on it, it's sold. Why are both the owner and the middleman being punished? The legislation of many European countries, including those with a high awareness of energy efficiency, e.g. Germany, Austria, Hungary, do not prescribe criminal provisions and not especially to intermediaries. Do we want to close down more agencies and thus increase unemployment and reduce total revenues? People who will have to sell will get by, and the agencies will fail. Finally, the purpose will not be achieved. At this point, the agencies as expert advisors are making significant contributions to energy certification because they have more or less contracts with authorised certifications and are speeding up the whole process. Finally, the market will respond to all of the above and will further encourage owners to energy certification. Is punishment in Croatia the only possible way, can authorized agencies not even partner to the state in carrying out certifications or have to be on the other side. The goal is to save energy, not punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61456	Thank you, too. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61457	Thank you very much. Dear lady, I see that you have noticed the same article and the same item, and I think it is something that will certainly not contribute to the real estate market in Croatia and will only bother and will be difficult to implement, and may be negative. I don't think anyone is against it if we have to do this, but I don't know if the Minister knows how to do it in practice. You bring the project to an authorised certificater, leave it to him and he sends you a certificate at home after 5-6 days, you pay 1500-2000 kuna. He didn't see the building. It's a Croatian reality. I don't think it's a certificate because the project can do something different in terms of the facade itself, and it turns out to be something else. So then you end up getting a building that looks good in the project, and in reality it's bad, and the certificate confirms it's perfect. Unfortunately, field work in certification does not have much or too much to deal with, and that should be done in some way. Because if it only makes sense to have paper to have it then the function of that certificate is certainly not achieved. For this reason, I would like to hear the Ministry's experience whether it is so and what the ministry does against those who do so by certification of the energy class of any building or apartment. And it would be good to really delete this item because it will bring in confusion and problems and ultimately only damage to the entire real estate market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61458	Replication response, Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61459	I don't think we understand each other very well. No one's asking for an end to this provision. Agents are only looking for a little flexibility, one space where people would adapt to it. I said nice people sell real estate because they get in trouble. At that moment, they do not have the opportunity to pay for the energy certificate, but as soon as the buyer is found, they get the capara for the property, within 7 days they will produce the energy certificate and when they sign the purchase contract, all the papers will be settled and everything will be fine. They're just looking for that possibility that they can advertise real estate without an energy certificate, and nobody's saying it doesn't matter, it certainly needs to be, but just a little bit to adapt to the situation in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61460	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61461	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate on these three space-building laws, I would like to say that I welcome the adoption of two special laws regulating this area because Croatia needs the separation of spatial planning from construction and the termination of custody, I would say construction over spatial planning. The fact is that in Croatia, the spatial planning that is extremely multidisciplinary activity is under the direct path of construction and the poor state of space as a systematic multi-annual collapse of the spatial planning system is a direct consequence of the intentional, planned, so I would also say the malciful destruction of the urban profession that has been going on for years, more precisely than the privatisation of the Croatian Urbanist Institute, but also the abolition of urban studies. This is why today in Croatia we no longer have real urbanists and spatial planners, but you are dealing with spatial planning by architects, experts I highly appreciate, but whose expertise is nevertheless a very narrow profile but what needs to be the expertise and multidisciplinary of spatial planners and urbanists. Because spatial planning is not only about drawing plans in which we push as many construction areas as possible but it is about discipline that requires more universal sensitivity and respect for demographic, economic, social, landscape, environmental, traffic and a whole range of other specific expertise. The separation of the Law on Spatial Planning from the Construction Act is therefore a good first prerequisite for spatial planning to be deserved in my opinion a strategic position and greater social importance and importance. This is how opposition promises and the commitment of the ruling parties today are fulfilled, and it is good to keep pre-election promises and keep them. But the question is whether only the separation of the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning will be enough to achieve what I hope all of us here in this assembly are pursuing, which is the introduction of order, legality and strategic thinking into the system of spatial planning in Croatia, and this system has already been spoken of, unfortunately burdened with a whole series of problems, from corruption, malversion, manipulation, land speculation, the sprays of politicians at local levels and unscrupulous land meshetars and the construction mafia. So, unfortunately, and deliberately complicated unnecessary procedure of civil corruption in the process of issuing building permits or solutions in the conditions of construction, ineffectiveness and slowness of issuing permits to investors who do not want to pay bribes or rackets to officials or on the other side of unscrupulous bargaining for selected investors in the mercy of political powers. Unfortunately, it is in these sectors and in the area of spatial planning, but also in the area of construction visible from the aircraft that, unfortunately, in Croatia, not everyone is equal in front of the law and the institutions. On the other hand, citizens also show insufficient awareness of the need to preserve space as the most important strategic resource of the state, so the debate on spatial plans is, unfortunately, only an opportunity to put their own border green agricultural parcel into the building zone and thus deepen their wallet overnight. Therefore, the obligation of the state in my view is to work on education and awareness of citizens and not only that they should not illegally build their houses or facilities but to educate them on the fact that spatial plans are key strategic development documents and this overall development of a space or community because this development and economic and social development is taking place or is happening in a specific space. Although I welcome the idea of the separation of the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning, I have to admit that I do not understand why the third, special Law on Construction Inspection, i.e. why the construction inspection and its conduct is not regulated under the Construction Act, by the fact that the Ministry of Civil Engineering has decided to abolish the urban inspection. I do not believe that this special law gives greater importance to this inspection and therefore I think it would be better to have a construction inspection under this Construction Act. I think that the fundamental intensity behind these laws is positive, trying to simplify procedures, make them more passing, more efficient, more friendly towards investments that are often dumped precisely because of the slowness in the issue of building permits. The fact is that complicated procedures favour corruption because they allow discretionary decision-making of officials, as well as leaders in public authorities. As a result, we cannot fight corruption by complicated procedures but rather by simplifying them and precisely defined procedures and protocols, and in my opinion, best of all, through the systems so-called. check the list. But I have to say, I'm not sure the result of this package of laws will be that way. In order to simplify procedures, however, we must not pass on the procedures necessary for the quality of construction such as the project of execution, which was also sufficiently talked about through professional associations. Also when we are conducting liberalisation, and we are implementing these laws of liberalisation, we must also take special care of the protection mechanisms. My impression is that, despite the five-year deadline for project realization, the law lacks a positional rent instrument, especially in attractive investment areas such as the coastal area. I've talked many times now about the 2008 data. So, the last year before we admitted the economic crisis when only in the Adriatic area was planned about 800 tourism and recreation projects of which were only 80, so 10%. And what does that tell us? This says that in the process of changing spatial plans, it goes with a fig in the pocket not to realize development projects but to turn the attractive non-building spaces into buildings and make the unscrupulous individuals rich overnight. How this would not happen in my opinion is an important instrument of positional rent. Many here are aware that planned development projects are never realized in the form in which they are planned, but later changes in spatial plans turn most often into faceless apartment settlements. I will also refer briefly to the Law on Construction Inspectors, which leaves a part of the work of construction inspectors to the municipal inspectors. The law states that the law regulates the structure of a construction inspection, the conduct of inspection supervision of construction, the implementation of professional supervision of construction, maintenance and use of buildings, the exercise of supervision of construction, the execution of procedures in the area that are not built, the maintenance of buildings by local self-government units. And I ask the question of whether the communal directors can really, within their professional competences, and we have had the opportunity to read from the very reason that most of them do not have the highest level of expertise, whether they can actually carry out those tasks that are intended for them by this law. I'm not sure about that. I also don't understand why the urban inspection has actually been abolished, although it says in the Law on Spatial Planning that supervision of law enforcement will be carried out by the ministry, so I assume that these jobs will in principle be done by urban inspectors only will not be called that way anymore. Finally, I would suggest that this package of the law be conducted for a third reading, since there is still a whole series of disputes and certain disagreements within the expert community. I fear if we adopt such laws that we will lose quality control and consistency of interventions in space, open up a great possibility of interpretation and thus corruption and that ultimately there will be no acceleration of procedures and I think that is what we should try to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61462	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61463	Dear colleague Holy, my colleague Grubisic has already asked you before if I can perform this in view of their qualifications, school, schoolwork and so on. And you've made that point now, so I'm going to tell you that in my opinion, and I'm deeply convinced that I can't do that, I don't need any big school. I mentioned the Split city area that was since '50. All nationalized and forbidden construction, and you know who was inspecting? Now I'm going to have one more localism like Shot Split... These were semi-literate people who walked in the Split field where whoever was doing some kind of house, like my father, took down three times for me, and he reported it and the court came. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whatever it takes, does a doctor need science to come to a construction site and see that someone laid the groundwork and does the housework? So we don't need that school, we need a man who wants to see it and report it and nothing else. And these so-called written ones would neither see nor report nor do what they were doing. They even paid them not to tell. That was the problem, and it wasn't the school's cooking. I'm telling you as a city kid where the truth is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61464	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61465	Dear colleague Marasovic, here to respond to your rather vivid replica. Well, I'm not so sure there's only enough common sense because I think there's still some competences that are needed. I'm not a priori against it, I'm expressing a certain doubt, and I would also warn that communal directors have a whole series of other jobs to do, and unfortunately they don't exactly do what they're supposed to do. This is where I primarily think about work related to waste, and at least in the city of Zagreb where I live very often I have the opportunity to see how waste is delayed on the surfaces, where it should not be, and it stands for days, weeks, some times and months, and unfortunately nothing happens until I, as a representative, intervene with the Environmental Protection Survey to then push the communal directors to solve this problem. I don't know if the reason is that they're so burdened with their other jobs they're doing, and they're dealing with a whole series of different jobs or something else, but now the fact is that they're going to get some extra jobs with this law and the question is how they're already doing these jobs they're doing right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61466	Ivan Klarin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61467	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for the honor of Madam Minister with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before the debate, I could not believe that in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament I would agree with any replica of my colleague Marasovic, and this last one would agree. So, I think the communal directors really can do this job, Holly, so I and my debate will focus on this last one of these three legislative proposals, so the Construction Inspectorate Act. First of all, in every debate that I speak when I report when Mrs. Mrak Taritash says and defends her laws, I must always commend, therefore, the serious and quality legislative proposals that you have been trying to introduce as deputy minister of the part, now as minister, order in Croatian space. When I spoke for the club a little less than a year ago about the situation in the area in the Republic of Croatia, then I compared it to the space in Japan after the tsunami of the infamous one, so many criticized me and criticized me even in the media. So, I'm staying here today, and unfortunately, some parts of the Republic of Croatia look like Japan after the tsunami. I hope, therefore, that this package of laws, in particular the Law on Building Inspection, that these things will change for the better, and that we will finally have one land arranged because God has given us natural beauty, and man has destroyed them especially for the last 30, 40 years. I've been talking about the Adriatic since the apartmentation started. So, without any goal, without any urbanization, it was built where and how it occurred to anyone. I would also point out here a series of important measures that have therefore improved this law. This is primarily strengthening the role of local self-government units. As the head of a local self-government unit, I therefore believe that the municipal directors, who have them, have exactly 674 in Croatia, can do the job, not as a boredom as mere observers, so the devastation of their own units of local self-government. Each of us loves, therefore, his birthplace, his unit of local self-government was that of a municipality or a city and when we see that our space is devastated, that he is built in a protected coastal belt, that he is built outside the scope of construction settlements, that he is built out of the scope where the municipality has adopted urban plans because the municipality, municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia have spent all these years of considerable financial resources on urban plans and arrangements. So to arrange certain parts of the settlement, to arrange the streets, their width, the size of houses, buildings, etc. In one debate in this Croatian Assembly, I cited an example of my municipal director who went out for an illegal construction, there were two workers who literally started making fun of him and began calling him to the lamb, you came with us to the lamb, and you eventually did your job and reported because they knew and were convinced that he could do nothing. Unfortunately, I hope, therefore, that these amendments to the law will make this practice go away. In this debate, I must criticise the building inspection. The construction inspection unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia therefore acts selectively. Namely, they go out and destroy those facilities only which are reported by municipal directors or local self-government units in a way where local self-government units that they want and that protect their lawless builders remain on the ground. We have an example from Sibenik-Knin County where out of 100% of the facilities removed, 70% of the facilities were removed in the municipality of Tisno, a municipality of 3500 inhabitants. I don't think the numbers are relative. At the end of this brief debate, I would therefore ask the Minister to explain to me one answer that I sent to the Ministry, which is that I complained about the illegally built objects, the pontoons within the scope of the sport port in the lakes, you then Madam Ministers, several days ago, more precisely 18 November in your letter, replied that the pontoons of those who were unlawfully appointed to be, by the provision of Article 15 of the Law of the Sea as floating objects of an object permanently attached and anchored at sea, the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, therefore, and none of your ministry. But we talked to them, and they said they weren't in charge of those pontons. So I'd like to hear the answer to who's in charge of these pontoons until there's a tragedy in the area of my community, so I'm sorry for taking advantage of this debate to ask a question, but I've asked you a written question, and I have to say that I'm not satisfied with the answer. In the end, I would also like to commend the changes. The adoption of the Law on Construction Inspection and the problems of the setting up of campsites in the Adriatic Croatia, there they bought cheap agricultural land and put on holiday homes, so certain families, they would absolutely not apply to the tourist community, so they would break a series of laws and the worst would be that they would devast the space itself, pave the way for roads, break through forests, and in the end they would set up these campsite houses, so our communal monks had no jurisdiction either until the adoption of this law. Their jurisdiction was exclusively to report to the State Inspectorate. That state inspectorate would later if he found someone in them, therefore, sealing the facilities themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61468	We have two replicas, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61469	So, dear colleague Klarin, you have expressed your great satisfaction that now municipal directors can take various measures and now stands in Article 51, among other things, that they can make a solution to the removal of the building. I ask you when a municipal director from your municipality brings such a solution, a communal director who has passed a professional exam and a mid-level professional training and removes the building, of course that the investor will not stop with his hands, that he will enter a court dispute, we know how long the court disputes are with us, and for formal reasons this solution falls after about 6,7,8 years and more. And this investor is suing your municipality not only for not making that facility but also for depriving property profits for example. one facility with a dozen apartments in it. Will you still think that it is enough for the communal director of medium professional training to bring such a measure?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61470	Replication response, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61471	I didn't say that this system and system was ideal, but it's much better than we've had so far. So you will evaluate in your municipality based on your spatial or urban plan whether that building is legal or not. I think each of us knows enough of our space, and what have we had so far? So far we have had to start illegally building, to get the municipal director out on the ground, and again, I'm stressing only in certain units of local self-government, to report to the building inspection so that illegal construction from the moment the illegal construction was reported until the moment of the construction inspection on the ground would already be under the roof. So, I think this is a much, much more quality version now, although normal can still be, better and better quality, but I think this is much, much better than it has been so far because just before I mentioned it in the debate. So, they only made fun of our communal directors, forgive me for using that word in the Croatian Parliament, but that was true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61472	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61473	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Klarin, and I agree with you that the Ministry's delivery is left in the work of a construction inspection of certain matters to the communal director or units of local self-government. This I welcome that the ministry is going further to centralization of business although not to get carried away by the Ministry has left it to the communal director of simple construction, control and supervision in simple procedures so that we assume such events as my colleague said earlier will not happen but it is good that other than power is left to money. We have practically produced this law through the Law on construction inspection of municipal offices into municipal police officers who, apart from those powers given them by numerous other laws, will now have these other powers. I am not quite sure that they will be able to successfully, for example, in your municipality in the Adriatic area in tourist seasons will be quite active on these jobs that are now given them jurisdiction. That's where we agree with that. However, I must simply expect from you as the head of a municipality, units of local self-government that you will refer to the fact that another law we are discussing today, which is the Law on Spatial Planning, is taking certain powers, so your municipal council will be excluded or will not be entirely in the powers that it has had so far when it comes to the adoption of urban planning arrangements, especially for specific projects that determine the Government by a special regulation. So on the one hand, the Government allows these laws certain powers and tasks, but on the other hand, I would say those important powers relating to the spatial arrangement and which have been given to the laws so far in the jurisdiction of your municipal council.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61474	The answer to the replica, no. We continue the debate, colleague Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61475	Dear Madam Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point out in my debate only actually one detail that is least spoken of and it seems to me to be almost the most important part of this set of laws. It is about the Law on Spatial Planning or the establishment and definition of the information system of spatial arrangement. That's what I was talking about in my first reading, and I had some comments. Here I thank them for being accepted and incorporated into this text of this final bill. I think that we here must always highlight all those steps and all those moves that talk about that or that allow easy, fast and free access to information. Here is specifically information about the state of the space. And I'm glad to see that we're setting up an information system and it's now quite popular through all the resistors to work to set it up on the right principles. The principle of full availability that is achieved so that the system is interoperable and multiforme, the principle that what is free is something that is actually one of the indicators of actually quality and public administration itself. The European Commission itself actually sees the availability of information through the Internet as one indicator of public administration. It is therefore important to base all information systems on the principles that the profession says are important, and these are exactly the ones on which this information system is based. We've had very different experiences about the establishment of different information systems I repeat in different resolutions. And it's very important that every new one we set up is actually set up in good settings. Although this article in Article 37 provides that the regulation will regulate electronic standards and everything else related to this system, I would only like to remind or ask that it be created among other things and in open form. The government has established standards for information systems in general. And the important thing is that when we specifically build new systems from the beginning we go towards modern and open norms. It's important because of the increase in the user base to say the system itself, but it's also important that the system as such can be easily transformed through time. We used to work information systems that were based on or on one platform, they worked for a while and then for a year, two, actually the cost of maintaining the system, the upgrade of the system was much greater than the usefulness itself. There's a lot to say here once because it's just not a good system. Secondly, it's extremely important because of what was happening in the very system of spatial order and it was I'm going to call it ugly, I'm not an expert here, and I'm asking that it be understood exactly that way from a good perspective, actually manipulating privileged information about the situation in spaces and plans that are planned for a certain space. It seems to me that if there was such manipulation or abuse of privileged information in one system it was in the spatial planning system. And I'm actually glad that there will be a way that every citizen in order to protect the interests of their own particles, or every investor for protection and security of interest for that particle of interest in the investment, will in some ways be protected. Of course the information system as I do does not guarantee it. We mathematicians would say it's necessary but not sufficient conditions, so it's necessary to have a system, it's enough that it actually works in the way that it's meant, which means that they're all misleading, administrative bodies, locally, which will fill that system to say so from below really do and fill it in the way that it's imagined. And in that sense, here's my support, and if there's any public pressure, because we don't have any other way, because on my side, it's absolutely helpful. I think it is extremely important to repeat this on the one hand because of the availability of information and the protection of the interests of individuals and investors. So here's the thing about that part. Second, about location information. It's one side of the derivatives from the system itself. It's clear to me why the Law says that she's in writing, she's not an administrative act, she can't raise anything entirely, but it seems to me that one of her colleagues has previously discussed that she actually has one part of the citizens who aren't always new technologies, who don't know how to use the systems. I hope that this written location information will actually be one transitional solution until we all learn to actually use available information systems the way they're meant to be, that they're meant to actually be used. Here in this sense my support for this law with another emphasis that it is indeed a great step. Because when we imagine public administration, when we imagine planning, then we imagine some people in some kind of rooms such as Kafkian almost some kind of administration sitting over some cards, they draw something there and then they trade it so well tomorrow with that information about what's going to be drawn. And it's actually the fact that there's something public and transparent published it's actually a giant step forward to be supported. I think the consequences of these solutions and functional systems are actually much more far-reaching than the first moss can seem. And in that sense, I think it's worth it again. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61476	Replica Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61477	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You colleagues, Lugaric, spoke of privileged information, so within the scope of spatial planning itself. I learned this privileged information and got on the ground on the spot when HDZ first passed the Law on the legalization of illegally built buildings. Almost a year before the law was passed, several urban villas were built in the Murter Island area within a protected coastal belt. So we went crazy in our community, reported all living inspections. And then I was fraternized by one of the information I received from a Russian investor who told me nothing about your community, and that's how this will be legalized by the end of the year. So he then had privileged information to pass the Law on the legalization of illegally built objects. I'm just wondering who was dealing with such information and in whose interest I think it's in the interest of individuals and not a unit of local self-government. It's a danger to avoid when these laws are passed. Here I repeat, I felt it on my own skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61478	We're continuing the debate. Comrade Tomislav Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61479	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I was quite critical in the first reading both during the discussions and on the committee on these findings in the introduction and the reasons why the units of local self-government are ineffective, that they have too much influence of regional, local and spatial plans etc., etc., and then the instructions of dissatisfaction, disagreement, misrepresentation by units of local self-government. We discussed this the other day in Baška, all the mayors, mayors and mayors of the Primorje-Gorski County and showed little revolution. But to continue in that style as Mr. Marasovic went with... and Mr. Klarin with the lambs, I'll tell you an example from a year and a half ago, after this new government was formed. One city is, all deadlines have expired for the ministry to give an opinion on the spatial plan, and that opinion cannot come. It came to the last day, and the mayor asked if there was anyone worse in that ministry normal who could push it to get it, not to start another debate, they said on behalf of the deputy minister. The mayor sat in the car, ran into her office, and thanks to the deputy minister, the second day was agreed and the spatial plan was put into effect. That deputy was you then, and the mayor was me then. That's why I don't doubt at all your good intentions and all the effort you're making to make this go in the right direction. However, regardless of all the things that little sometimes people and sorrows that truly well-intentioned amendments are not only with you but in many other laws they do not accept, reject me, I don't know if that's why it's purely political party but here I am asking you all and the opposition in particular, and also you personally to consider and to accept, I will only give one amendment to this bill. Either of you googling just and writing nine black dots in the Republic of Croatia, we'll jump, and then we'll read about tones I don't know what not, from Kaštel Sucurca, from Obrovec, from the coke shop in Bakra, etc., etc. I'm really asking you to consider this amendment and accept it. It's not hard, it's not big and it doesn't apply to my city because I'm the urban plan, and now it's in public debate and it's going to be passed under the old law, and I think we're going to start to apply, but I'm talking about the future and what's going to happen because life goes on. I therefore propose that in the final proposal for a law on spatial regulation in Article 79, a new paragraph 2 is added, which reads: "The urban planning of the arrangement is mandatory for parts of the construction areas after the recovery of the pollution and decommissioning of the plant, whose previous purpose was the exploitation field or the area of production." That's what I'm saying from our life example down in Bakr, and that's what I'm saying because of Kaštel Sucurc, Jugovinil and those huge slags that were dragged from Plomin, and also from Rijeka and Montenegro, and they were piled up along the coast of the sea. What will later happen with these areas and I see what appetites are for this more than valuable load along the coast of the sea, aligned, cleaned, remedied, unfortunately not yet because they are huge quantities and benzos and hydrocarbons and I don't know what not all of them in the subsea of coke... I am promised here in the Assembly to prepare projects and that we will be granted funds from European funds to realise it too. Everyone else writes here in this amendment, so just that one item. I don't think it disturbs anything, but in paragraph 1, you've prescribed one such option, but it's only decadently not stating what it refers to. In fact, here it is targeted to go with this sentence, I think it is acceptable for you, that nothing should interfere with the law itself, because in paragraph 1. you planned the same thing. The urban planning of the arrangements shall be made mandatory for the unregulated parts of the construction area and for the built-up parts of those areas planned for urban transformation or urban rehabilitation. Here in this second paragraph, which I propose is going towards the very nine points, I'm telling you that only with us in Bakr has been spent by the state, by the citizens of this country 350 million kuna, in the present recovery I still don't know how many hundreds of millions of kunas will continue to be in these remaining, from... and I don't know. And here I didn't want to report to my colleague Lugaric for her debate through the replica that we're not wasting any more time, and I don't want to talk about this anymore. As good as the law was, all the laws had so far been good and 10 commandments of God and of Vindol law, and all had spoken of the need to work honestly and honestly. It's simple if we don't all get our heads together and fight each other in our field against such phenomena, it'll be hard to prevent any privileged information or manipulation. It's a simple battle that lasts and lasts, and I think we understand each other, but the law itself and all the laws had good intentions but often there are those who abuse it. Here, Madam Minister, think about it. I think the amendment is acceptable, it doesn't disturb you at all, it's essentially your point in this part just aimed at those areas that are really critical and that our citizens who are living in that area and down in Dalmatia and down to us in Bakru, and also in Istria and Slavonia, wherever something like that happens, people have moved out, people have been sick and people have destroyed a normal life and I think they deserve that part of the space to have the power and influence to decide for themselves what they will be and how they will be actively involved in the debate. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61480	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61481	I agree with my colleague, so successful countries that have such least phenomena actually base in some way the public administration on something they call open-day principles. What is a tragedy that we in Croatia still don't have a valid Croatian expression for that principle or at least I haven't heard one that would be home even in some political discussion. So all these steps that talk about free and comprehensive publication of any type of information that exists is a big step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61482	The reply to the replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61483	We don't have the expression, but we don't have to have it. We know what this is about and we know who needs to be caught by the ear when something's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61484	It's a good thing you're getting along. Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61485	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, finally, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I will state the fundamental reasons why the Croatian Democratic Community Club cannot accept the draft law, i.e. the Final Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and the Final Proposal for a Construction Law. In the first row, I said when we talk about the spatial arrangement that it is not acceptable for us at the Croatian Democratic Community club to reach the level of authority of regional and regional self-government units relating to spatial planning to this law, it significantly reduces and thus the representative bodies of any regional self-government, whether local self-government no longer have the powers to pass this law. That's a fundamental observation. We can, through further explanations, argue that the procedures for the adoption of urban plans for state-level arrangements will include local self-government and regional self-government. But the fundamental jurisdiction is not in the county assembly, it is not on the city council or municipal council, and it is no matter how we try to explain it, and there will be numerous units of local self-government after you, or the government adopts a regulation that will prescribe which spaces, and then clearly and what are intended in these areas of importance for the state, ceases the authority of the units of local and regional self-government in that part and in that area that the Government appears to be of importance to the Republic of Croatia, and that is, in some ways, read and we noticed when we passed the Law on static investment projects where we saw that in a similar way in the implementation of these projects, the regional self-government and local self-government are excluded. They, however, have their own representatives who are in the minority and yet is the fundamental authority to realise these projects at the state level. It's the commitment of this government, I don't think the government should do it. But we need to make it clear that the government has taken over that principle and that's how it is, but it's centralization. That's the first thing. The second thing, when we talk about space protection, we say that space protection is no longer in the sense of mandatory components of creating spatial plans as it has been so far. That's what you wrote, and it should be noticed if it was there once, and it was an obstacle to the speedier realization of individual projects. I agree there used to be some delays, etc. etc. and additional costs, but the protection of space was more protected in this regard. When we talk about the Construction Act, we at the Croatian Democratic Community club would support Madam Ministers of your Law if you had stayed on that expert methodological approach that the chamber claims to be one, any other not because we at the club think that it protects the Czech. No, I think it's exactly the opposite of protecting investors. When we allow the investor to enter the process to know everything that is important to him on the basis of an idea solution, it only changes him. On the basis of it, he gets an act to build and before the construction permit is executed, i.e. before he opens the construction site, he does the main project with the least possible damage and it costs him the least. This is how it costs him more when he starts his process when he goes into construction and does the main project, and when he changes it, it costs him more. I am indeed, today the Presidency of the Parliament surprised me with the debate that it would be her this afternoon. If it was in the morning, we could set up an idea solution and a major project on the bench and see how different it was in the documentation, how much of a riot is the main project, which is an idea project or an idea solution, whatever the first design phase is called, so when we have to change that main project where we have to change several components of the main projects from the engineering project, architectural etc. etc. And when we change only an idea project, we can see how much cheaper it is for an investor. So we don't defend the Czechs even though it's for professional access that's the only reason why we don't accept a concept like this and a college approach in designing a project. The changes you have entered and I welcome Madam Minister, you know very well, that the government has remained on this approach that I said earlier, I would very much like to join you and give you support in the Construction Act. We'll probably be in the Construction Inspectorate Act, because you've been downgraded to the local self-government units through the amendment of the law compared to the first reading and strengthened with financial resources when... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61486	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You also have replicas and you will continue. Miss Plancic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61487	Well, esteemed colleague Bačić, here I am reporting to express my disagreement with your assessment that this law to local units, local self-governments, or regional governments, is taking away their right to plan their space. In fact, I think it is this law that allows the spatial plans of local self-government units to plan isolated construction areas outside the settlement and the original part of the construction settlement that has not been possible so far, because the right to those areas was exclusively within the jurisdiction of the county. So we couldn't plan as units of local self-government, let's say some kind of tourist zones or camps. The county did it without clear criteria and we were forced to transfer it to our spatial plans. I believe that the Ministry will define precisely what spaces and projects are of interest to the county or state and that it will be some large and important infrastructure projects and, in fact, projects of development, and that as a unit of local self-government, we will be able to plan smaller procedures that are equally important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61488	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61489	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues Plancic, your dissatisfaction with the work of the County Authority in Split-Dalmatia County cannot be projected on this law. Why? So you know how county spatial plans and otherwise spatial plans of local self-government units were created. In 1990, by creating the Republic of Croatia, we inherited the spatial plans of the former congregations of the municipalities. On the basis of these spatial plans, they have been slow, and the legislative legislation adopted by this Assembly has created the obligation for individual units of local self-government in Croatia and the counties to bring their spatial-planned documents. And these spatial-planish documents with respect to all laws, the positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia were primarily based on the spatial plans of former municipalities which were 105 in Croatia. And from these documents of spatial arrangement were parallel plans and through the later Regulation on the protected coastal area of the sea, if we talk about Hvar and the coastal area later and about the Law on spatial planning and construction, construction areas were slowly determined and... construction areas of the settlement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the question here is not whether before the chicken or egg, before one or another spatial plan is therefore a municipality or a city, or a county, but simply all these spatial-planned documents were created in a succession based on the former spatial plans of the former municipalities. Therefore, largely county spatial plans are created as a result of the wish of units of local self-government rather than vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61490	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61491	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here I am going to continue on this particular subject that colleague Plancic told us about. I agree with you, colleague Bacic, that it is, in fact, a perfided centralisation that is not only when we talk about the law that comes from this ministry but also in the laws that come from other ministries. So let's just look at what's going on with the Strategic Investments Act, so let's look at what's going on with the IRS, what's going on with the IRS, etc., etc. Therefore, the small door is being introduced by the regionalisation of Croatia and obviously with the intention of being an administrative construction unit that will in some way assume certain powers of the county and cities. In this case, the ministry gives itself further authority and centralises what is a fundamental rule in Europe when we talk about units of local self-government. And based on the European Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government, it is the fundamental right to determine what will be in the designated area where this unit of local self-government operates. It's a fundamental right. Read the European Charter and you will see what fundamental rights are and what it cares about. The other thing, I'm just going to say one case I got a ruling from the European Court of Human Rights which was before the end of 2012, in early 2013, I don't remember the date. And it was just the authority of the local self-government unit in Slovakia. Their state, Slovakia, has adopted a similar regulation that has led to the disenfranchisement of a local self-government unit to allegedly implement a project of state importance in the local self-government unit. They've excluded a local self-government unit from a decision-making unit. The European Court of Human Rights has ordered the repeal of all decisions related to this and the correction of legislation. And that's what Slovakia had to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61492	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61493	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I am not contesting, I said, the rightful majority to pass such a law. It is probably part of the general consensus at the level of the coalition government in Croatia, but I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, also want to bear in mind that units of local self-government have entered this law with one authority and come out with another. And nothing else. And I can't be convinced I'm wrong. Because if the county council or the municipal council and the city council had passed the plan by yesterday and only they could after this law no longer. To me, it's nothing but a certain way of centralizing. But that's the approach the government has set not only in these laws. The Regional Development Act speaks of further centralisation of Croatia. The fact that in the first step may not be lifted by the county as far as I know in constitutional changes is announced and the region as a regional unit. The region is announced. I don't believe that the region is going to the Constitution just to satisfy some coalition partner, some of the parliamentary parties that requested it, but I believe that this is also the reflection of this government. When we talk about the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, we again see further centralisation in relation to the powers of local self-government units. That's what I'm saying, nothing more. And that's why no one should be angry, but it should simply be determined. I don't agree with that approach. With the knowledge that numerous units of local self-government, Ms. Minister knows best, through her own indifference, care often, political problems in local self-government units have indeed not improved this system nor hasten investment but that is no reason to take away their powers. That's not the reason, I'm always gonna go after those units to help, not get their powers up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61494	Thank you very much. Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61495	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I will use my replica not to convince you to change your attitude, but I would certainly say that the Institute of Local Self-Government in matters of delirious authority with this law has at one point not been violated and no rights taken away. What I would say at the level of the Republic of Croatia said we have a hierarchy of state spatial plan, county, local, as it was thought to sometimes bring a local spatial plan and then to coordinate towards it Republically, no. He mentions logically that it goes from a state plan and then lower plans are coordinated. In addition, the state spatial plan is not only relevant for the organisation of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. It is very important that it can fit into neighbouring countries in terms of roads, pipelines, pipelines, power lines and everything else. That time we must agree our spatial plans with the plans of the Republic such as the republics that are our neighbours. So I think it's normal for us to coordinate state, county, local in this way. The local self-government unit decides on its own spatial plan, it decides not one moment does not appear the ministry that something can put out of force or anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61496	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61497	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Mandic, so he doesn't start the world with this law or that law before 2007. There were before and there were spatial plans, you would be right not to have any spatial plan, that Croatia is empty, that there is nothing in Croatia. In Croatia there are all units of local self-government with their spatial plans and county with their spatial plans. From now on, we'll have a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is not disputed and no one prevents it, however, I am the first to do so when the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines a specific project either infrastructure or energy, any other project of importance for the Republic of Croatia, then the counties and cities and municipalities of its spatial plans, which passes through several units of local or regional self-government, and this is the situation with us. For example, I do not know the construction of Ravnikska, Dolinska or what it is called, the railways, the river-zagreb-Botovo, the border with Hungary will be harmonised and without this law and units of local self-government will comply with that law. It's not a dispute, I'm talking about something else here, colleague Mandic. I believe that you know very well only now that you have approached your replica in a different way, which is that now something that has already been adopted in the spatial plan, and what is thought of as a city, some area of purpose, which is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the urban plan of regulation will bring the state or government, and in a procedure that is not identical to what would be to be brought by the competent unit of local self-government, something nevertheless in a modified procedure that is simpler, less public concern. I also said that during the first law, in a certain way, there is no respect for the Archduke Convention on the Interested Public and its participation in the process of such adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61498	Tomislava Sagar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61499	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bacic, this replica of mine refers to that part of your grudge against this law, which in my opinion is one of the better parts of this law. You mentioned the partial interest of an investor, of any kind. However, I think that this legal solution protects all participants in the construction from investors, projectors, performers, supervisors, because, exceptionally although I can agree with you, it can cause costs. However, early construction must be known as all parameters, and it was in practice example later if the problem arises, then in fact, it is hard to determine who is responsible or can be all responsible or no one. So in the beginning we need to get to know all the consents, all the special conditions that the whole process could take place uninterrupted and that we know exactly who is responsible for what because if there was a change later in the implementation part of the project then you don't really know who's to blame, because some things really can't be done on the ground because they didn't start by respecting the specific conditions that should have been respected. Here's what I wanted to say in the replica for a little while.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61500	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61501	My colleague, Žagar, I very much appreciate that the Minister wants to do with this law in mind that this speeds up the procedure and according to the Minister and Ministry's position to facilitate or reduce the cost of the project in a way that skips this idea solution, an idea project, and immediately drags the main project into play. I don't think we're going to reduce the price of a building permit. And then I especially disagree with you when you say that this will protect investors, I think that with this bill in certain buildings not in a simple, complex building of an investor without the obligation to design a project is often, not often, but always this implementation project costs something and costs, so when it is not obliged, it remains optional to agree between the investor and the contractor whether it will make it or not, then the investor will eventually pay what he did not pay at the beginning. In a more complicated, more complex facility, none of us will argue that simple objects are designed for an implementation project, none of us will. But for more complex projects, I don't think it's a optional approach, that it's not a good one, and although it costs an investor at the end, and knowing from the experience of numerous disputes between the performers' investors when the judicial process determines the quality and totality of the works that precisely because of these and such jurisprudences which have been in Croatia, the investor will eventually pay more than that of the radio implementation facility, at more demanding facilities, that it's nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61502	And the final word of Minister Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61503	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's about three laws and it's about laws that characterize all three, five basic things. The first really is the public, the second thing is simplicity, the third thing is a clear definition of the system and not only of the system as a process but of the time frames. And the fifth thing is responsibility. I'm not going to law-abiding now, so I'm going to focus on what was in the discussion, so I'm going on the subject. If you have noticed in materials the only law with which it is an EU mark is the Construction Act. Why? Because of the certificate. And the story with the certificates is a good story to show our good practice to pass the law and then we don't have a very good habit of applying it. In 2010, a certification obligation was introduced. When the certification obligation was introduced, it was said that the obligation was, therefore, still on a voluntary basis to say so. But since 1.7.2013, it is mandatory. 1.7.2013. when Croatia entered the European Union at that time was a terrible halabuca, so all the time the media was why certification was why, why not, why punishment. Because there are obligations we have to take care of. We don't buy a refrigerator without a certificate, and that's normal for us. A car without that information about how much CO2 shows that car in the atmosphere is going we're not buying. But we're ready to buy the property and we're ready to find a reason not to. The European Union Directive clearly states that it is an obligation, an obligation to purchase a property that has a net heating area of more than 50 square meters and that criminal provisions must apply both to the owner and those who, in writing, in the press, so to the press and the real estate, advertise. One of the discussions was also mentioned some of the practices of the European Union countries, so it is good to know until the end of the obligations we have in the legislation and one and the other obligations of 1.7. The obligation we had to punish the owners was already from 1.7. We had no obligation for agencies, we were warned by the European Union and we replied that our laws were ready for our first reading in the Assembly, that by the end of the year there would be probably a second reading and that it was in the procedure and of course the European Union accepted it. Portugal has not done so to pay a daily fine, a daily fine of 20,000 euros. From... is a certification obligation, of the 1.7 is the obligation of the owner to sell a criminal provision if he sells something without a certificate as if he sells a refrigerator to you in the store, but the obligation and the agencies that advertises in the media, only in newspapers in the press, and that's what it stands for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a commitment to that sniffer.hr. or something, which doesn't mean you shouldn't be, it's something you should be. We need to learn that there are standards that must simply be not because it is a norm but because certification speaks about the ecological consciousness that we have talked about here several times about my personal to the environment because less CO2 in the environment comes from my property that I have but also my consciousness that I save money that I spend on energy. So much for certification. Now I'm going in line with spatial planning, so I'm going to end up with some MPs who have a certain problem trying to answer from this place. Centralization. What do we have for days? Today, we have a strategy of the spatial arrangement brought by the Croatian Parliament. What will we have in the future? Strategy of the spatial arrangement brought by the Croatian Parliament. What do we have today? The programme of spatial arrangement by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This spatial arrangement programme which has not passed the public hearing procedure and has no obligation to hold public debates shall issue local permits and, following that, a building permit. Based on the programme brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What will we have in the future? Instead of the programme, a state spatial plan will define procedures of importance for the state, which will be in public debate for 60 days in all units of local self-government in all 556 units of local self-government. The programme will also be defined in an adequate scale, such as in the spatial plans of municipalities and construction areas for isolated construction areas outside the settlement for important operations for the Republic of Croatia. And this state spatial plan will bring this distinguished House, so the Croatian Parliament. And these urban planning arrangements covered by the construction area will be set up by the Croatian Assembly on the basis of a public debate again after public debates and units of local self-government. So, just a comparison of what we have today and what we have in the future with the obligation that the state spatial plan and the spatial planning strategy should carry out a previous strategic impact assessment on the environment, impact on the ecological network and define everyone who needs to be in that spatial plan. When it comes to centralization, then it's just as important to know, today we have the following. When it comes to isolated areas of economic use outside the settlement, I am primarily talking about tourism and sports and recreation areas. They are planned with spatial plans of the county and the municipalities can plan, there are plenty of mayors and mayors there so they know what we're talking about, can only be planned in this area of this purpose, maximum and surface and maximum capacity. If you're planning something less different, you can't plan anywhere else. This law allows the spatial plan to regulate the municipalities and cities of the municipality and cities in accordance with the regulations that will be adopted to have the possibility to plan their economic areas separated for purposes outside the settlement. It's about economics, tourism and sports and recreation. A regulation that will define which public debate will pass and be brought to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I can already say that for the right thinking is also a discussion with the professional public whether these are zones between 5 and 10 hectares. So under 5, it probably won't be over 10, but we'll let the expert know because in a serious debate we can't even go until we have this law. As for concerns about the need for large funds to change and complement spatial plans, the fear that these spatial plans will not be to a certain extent that there will be time and money, all spatial plans are in place. No spatial plan needs to be changed and complemented. Once the State Spatial Plan is adopted, what will be defined by the State Spatial Plan, it will be entrusted, indeed, as is the county's spatial plan today, the authority of the municipality's spatial plan, the city, such as the spatial arrangement programme of the county's mastered spatial plan will be the state plan in the hierarchy's authority. Those municipalities and cities that will have the need for further definition, I guess when the regulation is passed that there will be municipalities and cities that will need additional definitions that will now be made available to them as soon as possible, will go into changes and additions. I am bound by the Law on the retention of illegally built buildings where it is stated that 50% of the funds go into the budget of the Republic of Croatia and from that budget will be financed among other things and the need to amend and supplement spatial plans due to the need to resuscitate or amend for some other purposes. Therefore, the state there is absolutely ready to assist local self-government units in financing the necessary changes and additions. When it comes to the Construction Act and when it comes to this concern about the idea project, I am absolutely sure that this procedure that we have prescribed, where we have the main project where the building permit is issued on the basis of the main project is a procedure that certainly guarantees investor security, simplifies the procedure and speeds up the process. I repeat once again what I said in the opening statement, which is how it usually seems. It usually seems like when I come to my designer, I'm going to ask him for maybe 10 ideas because I'm not going to be satisfied with any of them, but I'm going to define with my designer what I expect from him. The law says what's mandatory, but it's not forbidden to do anything else in detail, I might want my designer to make all the details of the roof, the pillars in the house, measure 1:5, that's the relationship between me and him. The law said what was mandatory. The arranged building plot, and here I answer to the distinguished representative Marasović, you will not be able to obtain a building permit by this law unless you have access to a road that is at least white or brown in nature. Therefore, it is the minimum standard to have. And illegal construction. Irregular construction is really often mentioned, we often talk about illegal construction. What we have to say is that the building inspection does have certain tails to say so. At the beginning of 2012 and at the end of 2011, 31 000 crash solutions stood in inspection and none of them were implemented. In 2012, during 2013, we primarily tear down buildings and primarily tear down start constructions after 21 June 2011. We've destroyed 140 buildings from summer to now and some of the constructions started. The inspection has been on the ground for the past 10 days, so it's not Google or satellite or ISPU, it's nothing but a car, it's physically visited all construction sites that don't have marked plates, and when you don't have a board, it's the first sign that you have a construction site where it's built without a license, it's found how many such sites there are. We entered DOF in 2011, we saw what was therefore registered on DOF in 2011 and for 2011 this hour was defined by 1317, between 1300 and 1400 buildings. By the end of this year, solutions must be issued, and in the first half of next year, we tear it down. But we're not destroying either the bomber, or the public, or the newspaper, but we're in the field and what must be the feeling, the sense of the presence of a construction inspection on the ground. And that's why the law introduces the municipal, so the reason for the communal directors is the reason after a long, long discussion, conversations and everything else with individual mayors, individual mayors, we made that decision for the simple reason that the municipal director is really every day in that municipality, every day in place and he can see what's going on. You building inspectors have to come or have to be on tour and all the next thing you know. I'm sorry that the honourable representative Grubisic left because I can say something about ISPU. ISPU, the information system, in a month we had 2 million clicks. We calculated how many millions of clicks we have for a simple reason to know further what we should do in terms of hosting and all the other elements. When the esteemed representative Grubisic was speaking here, I opened the Vir there with my I-phone, I saw both addresses and home numbers and peddlers, so I'm sorry that very, very uncomfortable here from the bench to yell, if he had told me the address I would have shown him how nice his house on the Vira was, so when he was talking at the end I opened up and absolutely no problem at all. Just so I know the address the distinguished representative has. I could show what his house looked like and when it was taken. So, ISPU is a system that at the level of a month we already have 2 million clicks, so the system that absolutely works. I've got Mr. Klaric left, that's how it really was. There was a spatial plan of your municipality's consent in the ministry, and there was another addition due to the fact that you received the opinion of the county office a few days before your deadline. Yours was supposed to make another addition and it was a question of whether anyone could look at it or not. He contacted me, I didn't even know who. No, no. I said that if you deliver everything and everything is okay, that your colleagues will look at it and that because of us, you will not go into a renewed public debate. Because of the ministry, no one will go into a renewed public debate if all of their obligations are carried out in time. When it comes to your amendment in Article 3, the term states what urban transformation is and what your amendment is about is urban transformation and for that is the obligation of the urban planning of the arrangement. Article 3 of the wording is precisely defined what you are talking about is called urban transformation and is a commitment to the urban planning for this. And I have two things left. There's one thing for a respected representative, Clarina. Really, it's about pontons. There's concrete blocks down there. They're chaind up. The legislator did not resolve it properly until the end. As a result, the Law on Spatial Planning will also be issued for procedures that are not considered a classic construction and therefore mention the pontons. But there, at the end of his mind, is that the inspection will take place, our inspection will take the appropriate solution and act. We're waiting for us to have a law on spatial order and then we'll be able to do it accordingly because then it's clear what it's about, so eventually it's written. And the other ones are antennas. So, you know to the esteemed representative Matusic that the solution that the inspection made for the destruction of these antennas was in 2011 and that it was not carried out in 2011. I apologize, but Mr. Bacic was then Minister of Resorial, so perhaps you should discuss why it was not done at the time. We're building first and foremost. The infrastructure will be in order in the second half of 2014 and we will sort out the solution. Because what we inherited was 31,000 solutions to the demolition. And now we clean up the buildings first, and now after the buildings, we'll have the infrastructure. Here, I tried not to take all 30 minutes, even though I was afraid there was less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61504	Thank you, too, but you're not done with us yet. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61505	Thank you. Madam Minister, I respect everything you have said, but now our colleague, former minister, or once minister, or Minister Bacic, once and for all, will always be the minister, so he has made a solution for you, so at the 11th month. It was a month less than a month before the election. But he brought it not for the election, but for the fact that the petition was signed by two and a half thousand citizens. You know? And I'm afraid, I don't want to accuse you of any relationship with telecommunications operators, but I think there's something in here that's already in the West that's being resolved that in such densely populated areas you just can't put any antenna pillars. You've already got evidence, you've already got scientific evidence that it's really about the fact that they're a bad influence on people's health. But we will certainly talk about this, and that is also said in the European Parliament. I hope we can talk here too. But what's most important is the antennas that are illegally placed, which are set up against the city of Dubrovnik's spatial-planned documentation. So there was no time. I wish my colleague had stayed still and certainly would have removed it within a few months, but while he was still in power he was still worth complaining about this procedure and in that sense here. I ask that you really come as soon as possible to remove these objects because it really is human health.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61506	The answer to the replica of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61507	Well, thank you very much. As I said, we're primarily removing buildings, so we're removing what was built beyond 21.6. After that, it will be the turn of those buildings that have failed to apply for legalisation. In the second half of 2014, there will be infrastructure buildings and then, therefore, they are infrastructure buildings, I apologize not for buildings but buildings and then, among other things, I will know about the case. It's recently, I think the association is called "the sun" if I say wrong, correct me. She also sent out a petition and we know that we only have a certain plan of it all together and when it comes to order she'll come.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61508	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61509	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, there are many good solutions to these laws only the majority is, the ruling majority insists that we talk about all the laws together, and then in the debate on behalf of the club, and also in replicas cannot touch what I think is good as a license, such as ISPU etc. And there are many good solutions. But that fundamental difference that we disagree on, I elaborated on several occasions and in the last debate in the first reading and tonight. When we talk about what Mrs. Plancic said just before, you know very well that the county cannot expand its construction areas by local self-government units if there are legal restrictions in a local self-government unit. And that it's impossible to expand, change construction areas without compensation that are good. These compensations are good and should also be left in this law so that we do not take the entire coast where the cluster of such procedures has been urbanized and that the entire coast does not become building land. Those restrictions must remain. And that's why I support it, and that's what I said in my first reading, and I also support a provision in which, after five years, individual zones are not realised by law, and that's good. I said that some additional fences are being established since we are in recession times, in times of crisis when there are really some difficulties that can lead to the realization of a particular zone within five years but I also support it. Therefore, it is not disputed here that we do not fully agree with these laws but in what we disagree with are at the HDZ Club and for me these are reasons why the law cannot be supported. And it's just a different approach that leads us to further centralization. And that's the basis for the Law on Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61510	Thank you. Replica reply, Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61511	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bačić, the representative spoke of good solutions, so I no longer have the answer because we can agree that this law has a series, a series of good solutions that will enable what we are saying all the time to the public, openness, transparency, accountability and accessibility to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61512	And colleague Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61513	The Honorable Madam Minister of ours in Primorje is said, probably to you, who once burns and smokes coldly. The fact is, that's what the term says, as you said, I saw it well, and urban transformation, and it's all okay. However, if it were only this law, I would not have thought because this article pleases me more than the term I used has been used by you if you looked at Article 46 exactly the way I put those words in part of the amendment. And I really ask you to consider and accept that amendment, it does not disturb you in the concept but precisely locates the areas and conditiones the development of these urban plans. I'm not saying that without a clue. Now we have this strategic investment law and I've had a rush over these five, six years how many ideas have come to me to build on that space something that might be even worse than what it was. And I have space on the other side of the coast, and there are such places all over Croatia, where my port of scattered cargo will eventually have to be turned into something else, but not like this. So this doesn't cost you anything. The definition you wrote in the term urban transformation does not define in this sense what can happen in such a space. I'm here for this term, someone else will come behind me, but I want to give these citizens some guarantee that they'll decide what's going to happen in that space. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61514	Replication response, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61515	We got the amendment, we'll take another look. We appreciate that the provisions of the law in Article 3 are already consummated, but once again we will look at it and actually bring it back as soon as possible to the urban planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61516	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote on the laws most likely Friday. Tomorrow at 9.30 we begin the debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Business Act and the pre-fashion settlement. Thank you very much and goodbye. Session interrupted at 18.55 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61517	Final proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 466. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Tomislav Klaric. I would like the representative of the Proposer Zeljko Uhlir Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning to declare the proposed amendments. First amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1 to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61518	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61519	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 to Articles 7 and 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61520	The amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61521	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3 to Article 48
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61522	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61523	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 4 to Article 172.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61524	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61525	It becomes an integral part of the law. We move on to the amendment of MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61526	The proposed amendment is not accepted because, in Article 79(1), the amendment to which the amendment has just been made has the intention of requesting this amendment, so that there is no reason for it to be entered again in the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61527	Since Agent Klaric is not in the hall, we must vote on the amendment submitted. Who is for the amendment of Tomislav Klaric, whom the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Thank you, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61528	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-04-0.u61529	I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. We've passed the law with 81 votes in, 18 against and 1 abstention. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We will discuss - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 542 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Labour and Pensions System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovec, please be my guest.
